Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19623
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
(Credit 2334-KE)
April 18, 2000
Environment Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 23, 2000)
Currency Unit   =   Kenya Shillings
At the time of appraisal: US$1    =   Ksh. 30
As of March 23, 2000   =   Ksh. 74.87
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Kenya = July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COBRA   -  Conservation of Biodiverse Resource Areas
DfID      -  Department for International Development
EIA       -  Environment Assessment Impact
GOK       -  Government of Kenya
ICR       -  Implementation Completion Report
JICA      -  Japanese International Cooperative Agency
KfW       -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KWS       -  Kenya Wildlife Service
MTR       -  Mid-Term Review
NTI       -  Naivasha Training Institute
ODA       -  Overseas Development Administration
PAWS      -  Protected Areas and Wildlife Services
SAR       -  Staff Appraisal Report
TNA       -  Training Needs Assessment
USAID    -  United States Agency for International Development
VPU       -  Veterinary Practices Unit
WPU       -  Wildlife Protection Unit
Vice President   :  Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Director           Mr. Hans P. Binswanger
Sector Manager     Ms. Charlotte S. Bingham
Team Leader        Ms. Agi Kiss



Iy CO)Do         7j=  B
lIMLENIENTATION COMPLETION REPGDE
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PIOJEC7
CREDIT 2334-KE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ......................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................... .
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLENIENTATION ASSESSMiENT..........................................
A.  Statement and Evaluation of Objectives                                       I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                     .2
C. Major Factors affecting the Project .12
D. Project Sustainability .14
E. Bank Performance .15
F. Borrower Performance .18
G. Assessment of Outcome .20
H. Future Operation .20
I. Key Lessons Learned .20
PART 1a: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ....................         ................................. 23
Table 1: Summary of Assessments    ..24
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits         ..25
Table 3: Project Timetable           ..25
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual . .25
Table 5:  Modified Indicators of Project Implementation.                        26
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation    ..28
Table 7: Studies Included in Project       ..29
Table 8A: Project Costs ...............................................  32
Table 8B: Project Financing ................................................    32
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits        .................... ................... 33
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants        .................. ........................ 34
Table I1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................ 35
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  ..................... .......................... 35
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions         ..... ..................................... 36
APPENDICES
Appendix A   Implementation Completion Report Mission Aide Memoire ......  ....................... 37
Appendix B   Kenya Wildlife Service's ICR .................................... ................. 47
Appendix C   Analysis of PAWS' Economic Costs and Benefits (ERR) ....... ........................... 63
NIAP IBRD No. 22970
Ths document has a restricted distrbution and may be *                        W
performance of their official duties. Its contents may no  ot             d   t  .,:Cza  wVA&o
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT 2334-KE
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion report (ICR) for the Kenya Protected Areas and
Wildlife Project (PAWS) for which Credit 2334-KE in the amount of SDR 44.8 million
(US$60.5 million equivalent) was approved on February 11, 1992 and made effective on July 8,
1992. In addition, the Bank administered on behalf of KfW a Trust Fund on the amount of USD
16,366,612, which became effective on October 22, 1996.
2.    The Credit was closed on July 30, 1999, after two extensions to the original closing date
of September 30, 1997. The final disbursement of the [DA loan took place on December 10,
1999, and an undisbursed balance of USD 3,771,448.59 was subsequently cancelled. Parallel-
financing for the project, under grant terms in separately implemented components, was provided
by the governments of Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Great Britain, United States, and by the
European Union.
3.    This ICR was finalized by Claudia Alderman (LCSEN) and by Richard Kaguamba
(AFMIKE), and reviewed by Agnes I. Kiss (AFTEI). Marie Claire Li Tin Yue, Program
Assistant (AFTEI) provided operational assistance. The report was based on the findings of an
ICR mission to Kenya from September 26-October 13, 1999 '. This report is also based on
several evaluation reports for specific components prepared by other PAWS donors, and the
report titled "Review of Conservation Impacts of the PAWS Project" (dated July 14, 1998),
prepared by TAESCO Consultants on behalf of the World Bank. The mission's Aide Memoire is
included as Appendix A to this report. The Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) arranged field visits
and meetings, commented on the mission's Aide Memoire, and provided its own assessment of
the project and its achievements. This document is included in this report. Comments on the
draft ICR were solicited from Government, and are included as Appendix B to this report. A
detailed review of the project achievements by component can be found in the project files, in a
document titled "ICR Background Papers."
The ICR mission tean was comprised of Claudia Alderman (co-team leader, environment operations,
LCSEN), Richard Kaguamba (co-team leader, environment specialist. AFMKE), Christine Cornelius
(operations officer), Lawrence Lechner (protected area management specialist), Hans Olsen (institutional
specialist), Karen Sondergaard (financial management specialist) and Dahir Warsame (procurement specialist,
AFMKE). Mr. Andreas Holtkotte, Mr. Georg Kraft and Ms. Yasmin Tawfik, also joined the ICR team on
behalf of the KfW. Mr. Daniel Mosher (consultant) provided the ERR for this project.






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT 2334-KE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Protected Areas and Wildlife Services project (PAWS) became effective in June
1992, to help the Govemment of Kenya (GOK) halt a crisis of poaching, banditry and
environmental deterioration in the national parks and reserves. It also aimed to enable the newly
created Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) to implement an ambitious policy framework and the
first half of a 10-year development framework and development program it had prepared with
the assistance of a Bank-administered Japanese Technical Assistance grant, and support from
other donors (the United States, Great Britain and the European Economic Community). In view
of the urgency of the situation, the GOK's demonstrated commitment to the project, and the
strong support from other donors, the project was approved with only limited economic and
institutional analysis, under the understanding that existing inadequacies in the institutional
capacity and the legislative framework would be resolved during the first year of the project.
2.    KWS, a parastatal institution, is the agency responsible for all wildlife conservation
management in Kenya. It is also responsible for wildlife research, education and extension, and
has been given the necessary legislative authority to retain revenues from gate fees and tourist
lodge rents. As such, KWS was both the beneficiary, and the agency responsible for the
implementation of the PAWS project.
Project Implementation Experience
3.    This project was initially designed to be implemented over a period of five years, but was
extended twice, for a total of seven years of implementation. A Mid-Term Review (MTR)
Mission was carried out in early 1996, with the participation of several donor representatives
(including the ODA -now named DfID-, KfW, USAID, the Netherlands, the European Union
and JICA). At that time, it was noted that project implementation had suffered serious set-backs
due to factors largely outside KWS's control such as delays in filling several key management
posts and installing management systems, the disruptive and demoralizing impacts and
repercussions of events surrounding the change in leadership and a Government probe in 1994,
and the failure of GOK and donors to provide support at times and levels expected. The MTR
team concluded that the project objectives seemed to have been overly ambitious, and made
extensive recommendations for corrective action of implementation problems. However, many
of these recommendation and those of subsequent supervision missions were not followed, most
likely to the detriment of the project's overall performance.



- III -
4.    While implementation was slow at first, and the project suffered from many
implementation problems along the way, the PAWS project was widely recognized throughout
its implementation as one of the best performing projects in Kenya and the region. However,
implementation efficiency, as demonstrated by the level of disbursements and the carrying out of
a multitude of activities, is not synonymous with the achievement of long term development
objectives. This seems to have been the case here, as implementation was rated as "satisfactory"
through most of the life of the project, yet as the project came to a close, it seems that despite
substantial accomplishments, most of the objectives of the project were not fully realized.
Project Results
5.    The PAWS program has marginally achieved its overall objectives. Virtually everyone
associated with the program agrees that in the absence of the project the conservation situation
would be far worse, and that PAWS has been a tremendous contributor to conservation in Kenya.
While fully recognizing the importance of PAWS to both the wildlife and tourism sectors, and
the dedication and hard work of the KWS's staff, it is clear, however, that the project did not
realize its full potential.
6.    The principal accomplishment of PAWS is that, overall, wildlife management and park
management have substantially improved. Visitor security both within and near protected areas
has greatly improved and a well equipped Wildlife Protection Force was established. KWS has
achieved stature and recognition both nationally and internationally. The equipment and
infrastructure made available through the project have enhanced KWS operational capabilities
and boosted the morale of its staff, especially of those stationed in the field. KWS's work with
communities is helping change the organization's image from one of "police" to one of
npartner". While it is too early to fully assess their conservation impact, there are several
projects underway designed to create opportunities for communities to benefit from conservation
and sustainable management of wildlife and natural resources.
7.    However, PAWS achievements have fallen short in several areas. For example, one of
PAWS key objectives was to develop a revised policy and legislative framework for wildlife
management. Thus, the failure of the GOK to bring to fruition the considerable effort spent in
reformulating the outdated Wildlife Bill represents a failure to achieve PAWS' project
objectives. Lack of effective land policy has resulted in the steady loss of essential wildlife
habitats and migratory corridors with a consequent decline of many important species outside of
protected areas. Concurrently, lack of sound policy, strategic and institutional frameworks, and
low public investment in the tourism sector threatens Kenya's competitive position and market
share, as well as KWS' ability to derive revenue from tourism, and thereby achieve a reasonable
degree of financial sustainability.
8.    Institutionally, KWS was not been strengthened to the degree expected during the project.
Despite KWS's strategy for restructuring based on the principles of regionalization and on three
main organizational goals (Biodiversity, Partnership and Tourism), the success of this
reorganization has been put in question, and both the regionalization and the three-pronged
organizational approach have been abandoned. As a result, the organization has been
substantially weakened by repeated changes in direction, as evidenced by high turn-over of staff
and lack of clear and consistent managerial guidance. The current weak financial position of



- iv -
KWS indicates that the project did not succeed in building strong capacity for financial
management and planning.
9.    The training component was also not as successful as expected in building long-term
institutional capacity. While training was partially effective in achieving its goal of enhancing
the overall knowledge and capacity within KWS, particularly of the lower and mid level staff,
the component could have resulted in stronger managerial skills throughout the organization.
Moreover, the impact of training was undermined by the high turnover of staff (due to both
natural attrition and to retrenchment), whereby a high proportion of trained personnel has been
lost to the organization. Furthermore, the continuity of training is in question, as training is often
one of the first activities substantially scaled down. To wit: KWS's training budget for 1999-
2000 allocates only sixty cents (USD) per staff member for the year.
10.   The impact of PAWS on improving KWS's financial position is uncertain. While
revenue did increase significantly it did not keep pace with the sharp increase in operating costs.
KWS suffered significant operating deficits over the past five years, reaching almost Ksh. I
billion in the fiscal year 97/98. While in the past year revenue collection and expenditure control
have improved, currently KWS income (from own revenues and government subvention) is still
not enough to cover a reasonable level of operating costs, let alone fully carry out its mandate.
11.   The weak financial situation at this point is exemplified by the fact that staff salaries for
1998-1999 account for 90% of KWS's income. In many parks, some roads have deteriorated
severely and much of the equipment purchased under PAWS either needs to be replaced, or is
idle due to lack of fuel and spare parts. Many facilities lack furniture and accessories required to
be operational. Yet, the amount allocated in the 1999/2000 budget for infrastructure and
equipment maintenance is substantially below what is needed to do the job adequately. The lack
of a comprehensive plan in place for maintenance of infrastructure and equipment at the time of
the ICR evaluation, and the lack of a fund to finance these expenditures, puts in question the
sustainability of project achievements. On the positive side, subsequently to the ICR mission,
KWS has informed the Bank that it has embarked on a major exercise to evaluate its equipment
and infrastructure in order to determine the level needed to sustain optimal operations. KWS is
also developing Maintenance Plans, which it expects to discuss in an Strategic Planning
Workshop scheduled for January 2000.
12.   Much of the infrastructure developed by PAWS brought about positive benefits in terms
of wildlife protection and, to a lesser degree, tourism in protected areas. The transportation
systems, including air support and roadways has been critical in managing protected area wildlife
populations, enforcing poaching restrictions and providing access for both KWS personnel and
tourists. Fencing projects have reduced community/wildlife conflicts in many areas. The
Nairobi headquarters provides centralized facilities and the basis for more efficient operation.
Greatly improved housing and ranger accommodations make field support and patrol operations
viable. KWS morale is significantly higher and can be directly linked to better facilities,
uniforms, equipment and vehicles provided under PAWS. However, the Civil Works component
had problems in its implementation. As a result, some of the infrastructure seems to be of
limited usefulness, was over-built, or could have been built at a lower cost.



v 
Lessons Leairned
13.   Lessons leaned during project implementation include that:
Experience shows that it is essential to assure that appropriate policy and legislation are
in place before making major investments in a sector. Investing under the promise/
expectation that the needed policy and legislation ivill be developed during project
implementation seems to rarely work.
Governance issues must be addressed at the project design stage to ensure accountability
and transparency of project management and implementation. For example, the lack of
terms of reference and clear guidelines for Boards can undermine the effectiveness of an
institution. In addition, it is important to recognize and take into account that many
institutions are strongly influenced bv the personality and style of the Director, and to
incorporate elements to address the problems that this can raise.
o Complex projects, xvhich are too large for the institutional capacity at entry, should be
implemented in phases that are closely related to existing capacity for project
management and design. Institutional capacity should be adequately strengthened before
making major investments in areas whose success is largely dependent on institutional
capacity. e.g. infrastructure development. A large, complex program should not be
grafted onto an emergency operation because the urgency prevents adequate preparation
of non-emergency elements.
o It is not advisable to rely heavily on outside technical assistance (both local and
international contracts) to handle implementation of project activities. Specifically, key
line positions within a government organization should not be widely filled with external
technical assistance professionals. This tends to depress morale of staff, and the
remuneration levels required to hire external specialists is not consistent with the long
term financial viability of a government institution. Where TA is provided, provisions
should be made for the organization to assume ownership of resulting products, and for
using the added resources and expertise to build long-term internal capacity.
o  A training needs assessment which is clearly linked to other components (such as
retrenchment or institutional reorganization), must be conducted before investing in
human resources development.
o Investment in long-term (degree) training, both national and international, is not a viable
and sustainable strategy for capacity building. Experience shows that too many trained
staff members seek other employment upon completion of training, particularly if the
institution to which they are returning does not offer competitive compensation.
o  Where there is weak institutional capacity to manage complex civil works activities,
project design should ensure that civil works come on-line gradually, are in line with
clearly articulated conservation priorities, and the number and scale of the procurement
and services packages allow for proper supervision given existing human resource
constraints.



- vi -
Employing several independently-acting Consultants to implement Civil Works
components may lead to lack of standardization of design, impedes supervision, and may
increase costs. Moreover, strict reporting requirements for Civil Works Consultants must
be developed before project implementation.
• Project activities must be developed within a logical planning framework that clearly
links management objectives with the activities, articulates expected targets, includes a
realistic chronological order for implementation and analyzes the investments in terms of
both the immediate benefits and the long-term recurrent-costs implications.
* Area management plans, policy statements establishing conservation objectives,
Environmental Impact Assessments, and participatory conservation planning should be
manidated prerequisites to large infrastructure development in protected areas.
Programs whose objectives are recognized and valued by a majority stakeholders, or
those which mesh most closely to existing institutional culture are the ones most likely to
succeed. Moreover, project components such as planning will be successful only if there
is institutional recognition of their value.
= Project design and appraisal must give adequate consideration to the recurrent cost
implications of maintaining the infrastructure and equipment acquired under the project
Lack of maintenance provisions and of financial resources allocated for this purpose can
severely jeopardize project achievements.
- Careful consideration must be given during preparation and appraisal to monitoring and
evaluation indicators and arrangements. Lack of baseline data and appropriate indicators
(directly related to project objectives), and adequate means of verification will limit the
extent to which is possible to evaluate project impact.
- Mechanism which facilitate Donor coordination, improve information transfer, and allow
for concerted action must be in place.
The lessons identified by KWS in their ICR are largely consistent with these (e.g. the
need to ensure capacity is in place prior to making major investments, the dangers of relying
on external consultants for capacity building). Overall, however, the KWS ICR focuses on
achievement of activities, as opposed to outcomes as is the case in this document. As a
result, the KWS' own assessment is considerably more positive. It would be important to
follow up on this difference in perception to ensure that all parties derive the maximum
benefit from the ICR exercise.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT 2334-KE
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSNMENT
A.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Objectives
I .    The original PAWS project objectives were to halt the decline of the country's wildlife,
and its system of national parks and reserves, and to develop a sound foundation for
environmentally sustainable wildlife-based tourism. The project would also help develop a
comprehensive policy framework for a second-phase project in the sector. The strategies for
achieving these objectives included:
a) strengthening KWS's management capacity, research and planning capacity, organization
structure, and staff skills;
b) improving KWS's financial position by assuring its access to tourism receipts from parks
and reserves and by providing support through the establishment of a conservation
endowment fund;
c) supporting investments to develop infrastructure, such as roads and tourist facilities, in
currently popular parks and in other parks and reserves with tourism potential;
d) providing a stake for communities living in wildlife areas to promote project objectives;
e) improving public education and visitor awareness of conservation issues; and
f) analyzing and formulating policies relating to land use, tourism development, and the
roles of the private sector and KWS as consistent with GOK's parastatal reform program.
2.    In 1997, in recognition that it was essential to develop performance indicators that better
capture the level of achievement of a project's development objectives, the PAWS objectives and
their respective performance indicators were re-articulated as follows:
•  Halt/reverse decline of Kenya's wildlife populations;
* Halt/reverse decline of Kenya's National Parks and reserves as: (i) natural ecosystems;
and (ii) tourist attractions;



*  Establish sound basis for wildlife conservation and environmentally sustainable wildlife-
based tourism through institutional strengthening of KWS vis a vis: (i) financial
sustainability; (ii) business-like operation; (iii) knowledge-based park/area planning and
management; and (iv) environmental impact assessment capacity to ensure environmental
soundness of all development within parks and reserves; and
*  Promote wildlife conservation in critical areas outside PAS by increasing the benefits
local communities receive from wildlife and by reducing human/wildlife conflict
through: (i) development of sustainable wildlife-related enterprises; (ii) revenue benefit
sharing program; (iii) reduction of negative impacts (e.g. crop and livestock raiding); (iv)
education and awareness raising.
Assessment of Objectives
3.    The original project objectives were appropriate given the crisis situation in the wildlife
and tourism sectors, and the high level of government and donor commitment to the project. The
objective of transforming KWS into a business-like organization was appropriate, but
realistically it probably could not be achieved in this short a period of time. The objective to
improve KWS's financial position was reasonable and a necessary condition to KWS's long term
institutional sustainability. This is not synonymous, however, with achieving fullfinancial
sustainability. In this regard, the SAR is internally inconsistent. In one place it recognizes that
KWS is not expected to be fully self-financing in the near or medium term because of the nature
of its operations. Yet, the SAR also states that KWS will seek Government subvention for the
next three years, and that it would set up a Wildlife Conservation Fund with a steady source of
funding. The corollary is that by the end of three years KWS would have been able to cover all
its costs with its own-generated funds or those in the Trust Fund. This was overly optimistic,
particularly as the projections of future revenue were too ambitious, as was the premise that
funds for a Trust Fund, large enough to cover substantial operating and recurrent costs, would be
readily obtainable.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
General
4.    The PAWS program has marginally achieved its overall objectives. Virtually everyone
associated with the program agrees that in the absence of the project the conservation situation
would be far worse, and that PAWS has been a tremendous contributor to conservation in Kenya.
While fully recognizing the importance of PAWS to both the wildlife and tourism sectors, and
the dedication of the KWS staff, it is clear, however, that the project did not realize its full
potential.
5.    The principal accomplishment of PAWS is that, overall, wildlife management and park
management have substantially improved. Visitor security both within and near protected areas
has greatly improved and a well equipped Wildlife Protection Force was established. KWS has
achieved stature and recognition both nationally and internationally. The equipment and
infrastructure made available through the project have enhanced KWS operational capabilities



and boosted the morale of its staff, especially of those stationed in the field. KWS's work with
communities is helping change the organization's image from one of "police" to one of
"partner". While it is too early to fully assess their conservation impact, there are several
projects underway designed to create opportunities for communities to benefit from conservation
and sustainable management of wildlife and natural resources.
6.    However, PAWS achievements have fallen short in several areas. For example, one of
PAWS key objectives was to develop a revised policy and legislative framework for wildlife
management. Thus, the failure of the GOK to bring to fruition the considerable effort spent in
reformulating the outdated Wildlife Bill represents a failure to achieve PAWS' project
objectives. Lack of effective land policy has resulted in the steady loss of essential wildlife
habitats and migratory corridors with a consequent decline of many important species outside of
protected areas. Concurrently, lack of sound policy, strategic and institutional frameworks, and
low public investment in the tourism sector threatens Kenya's competitive position and market
share, as well as KWS' ability to derive revenue from tourism, and thereby achieve a reasonable
degree of financial sustainability.
7.    Institutionally, KWS was not been strengthened to the degree expected during the project.
Despite KWS's strategy for restructuring based on the principles of regionalization and on three
main organizational goals (Biodiversity, Partnership and Tourism), the success of this
reorganization has been put in question, and both the regionalization and the three-pronged
organizational approach have been abandoned. As a result, the organization has been
substantially weakened by repeated changes in direction, as evidenced by high turn-over of staff
and lack of clear and consistent managerial guidance. The current weak financial position of
KWS indicates that the project did not succeed in building strong capacity for financial
management and planning.
8.    The training component was also not as successful as expected in building long-term
institutional capacity. While training was partially effective in achieving its goal of enhancing
the overall knowledge and capacity within KWS, particularly of the lower and mid level staff,
the component could have resulted in stronger managerial skills throughout the organization.
Moreover, the impact of training was undermined by the high turnover of staff (due to both
natural attrition and to retrenchment), whereby a high proportion of trained personnel has been
lost to the organization. Furthermnore, the continuity of training is in question, as training is often
one of the first activities substantially scaled down. To wit: KWS's training budget for 1999-
2000 allocates only sixty cents (USD) per staff member for the year.
9.    The impact of PAWS on improving KWS's financial position is uncertain. While
revenue did increase significantly it did not keep pace with the sharp increase in operating costs.
KWS suffered significant operating deficits over the past five years, reaching almost Ksh. I
billion in the fiscal year 97/98. While in the past year revenue collection and expenditure control
have improved, currently KWS income (from own revenues and govemment subvention) is still
not enough to cover a reasonable level of operating costs, let alone fully carry out its mandate.
10.   The weak financial situation at this point is exemplified by the fact that staff salaries for
1998-1999 account for 90% of KWS's income. In many parks, some roads have deteriorated
severely and much of the equipment purchased under PAWS either needs to be replaced, or is



idle due to lack of fuel and spare parts. Many facilities lack furniture and accessories required to
be operational. Yet, the amount allocated in the 1999/2000 budget for infrastructure and
equipment maintenance is substantially below what is needed to do the job adequately. The lack
of a comprehensive plan in place for maintenance of infrastructure and equipment at the time of
the ICR evaluation, and the lack of a fund to finance these expenditures, puts in question the
sustainability of project achievements. On the positive side, subsequently to the ICR mission,
KWS has informed the Bank that it has embarked on a major exercise to evaluate its equipment
and infrastructure in order to determine the level needed to sustain optimal operations. KWS is
also developing Maintenance Plans, which it expects to discuss in an Strategic Planning
Workshop scheduled for January 2000.
11.   Much of the infrastructure developed by PAWS brought about positive benefits in terms
of wildlife protection and, to a lesser degree, tourism in protected areas. The transportation
systems, including air support and roadways has been critical in managing protected area wildlife
populations, enforcing poaching restrictions and providing access for both KWS personnel and
tourists. Fencing projects have reduced community/wildlife conflicts in many areas. The
Nairobi headquarters provides centralized facilities and the basis for more efficient operation.
Greatly improved housing and ranger accommodations make field support and patrol operations
viable. KWS morale is significantly higher and can be directly linked to better facilities,
uniforms, equipment and vehicles provided under PAWS. However, the Civil Works component
had problems in its implementation. As a result, some of the infrastructure seems to be of
limited usefulness, was over-built, or could have been built at a lower cost.
12.   A summary of the achievements and shortfalls by project component is found belowv. A
more detailed analysis can be found in the project files, in a document titled "ICR Background
Papers.
Legislation and Policy
13.   With PAWS support, KWS prepared and presented to Cabinet a revised Wildlife Policy
and Wildlife Bill in 1998. However, when a new Director of KWS was appointed in the autumn
of 1998, the Bill was withdrawn, as the Director felt that the Bill had several shortcomings, and
that it needed to be subjected to a broader stakeholder consultation. Regardless of the merits of
withdrawing the Bill, the fact is that over 18 months have passed without the Bill having been
revised and resubmitted, and that at the time of the ICR there was no clear action plan in place to
do so. The absence of an approved policy and improved legislation represents a major failure to
meet PAWS objectives, as KWS' role in wildlife conservation outside of protected areas is still
not clearly embedded in national legislation. A positive achievement is the four Memoranda of
Understanding between KWS and government departments which clarify overlaps and conflicts
in jurisdiction between agencies. KWS has also entered into eight agreements with County
Councils for the management of various national reserves. Assessment of Outcome:
Unsatisfactory.



-5-
Institutional Capacity
14.   The PAWS project substantially assisted KWS in strengthening its management capacity
by providing funds to hire skilled personnel, train existing and new personnel, and develop
management systems. The Technical Assistance component for strengthening institutional
capacity did initially aid the KWS in implementing this very large investment project, yet this
component did not reach its full potential. A weakness of project design was that the
institutional strengthening relied heavily on bringing in outside expertise, which caused internal
friction. KWS did not have in place the legal and institutional framework, nor the human
capacity to properly implement such an ambitious program and to manage such a large influx of
funds as provided under the PAWS project.
15.   Under PAWS, human resource capacity has been built within KWS to prepare activity-
based plans and budgets, and to handle financial and management information systems. These
systems are in place at the headquarters level, but not at the field/local levels. KWS explained
that the lack of systems in the field is attributable to the failure by donors to provide the
equipment and software as envisaged in the SAR. Much has been accomplished in applying
adequate financial supervision and monitoring mechanisms throughout KWS, but staff training
and supervision are still not sufficient. During the life of the project, major corporate
reorganization and policy shifts have destabilized KWS, and undermined many of the early
achievements. However, activities planned under the new directorship may improve KWS's
institutional capacity in the near future.
16.   Finally, a key limitation to KWS's performance during the life of the project was its weak
Board. In particular, the Board had no detailed Terms of Reference, and its members did not
seem to have a clear understanding of their roles and responsibilities. Hence the Board did not
provide the strategic vision necessary to smoothly weather the transitions between Directors who
had radically different approaches to the management of the organization, and of Kenya's
wildlife and biodiversity overall. Assessment of Outcome: Minimally satisfactory.
Training
17.   A great deal of training was conducted under PAWS. Given that no detailed assessment
of the results of the training has been attempted by KWS, the results of staff training can only be
assessed subjectively. While training was partially effective in achieving its goal of enhancing
the overall knowledge and capacity, particularly of the lower and mid level staff, the component
could have resulted on stronger managerial skills throughout the organization. The impact of
training was undermined by the high turnover of staff (through both natural attrition and
retrenchment), whereby a high proportion of trained personnel has been lost to the organization.
18.   The Training Needs Assessment (TNA) envisioned in the SAR was not carried out until
1997. The TNA focused almost exclusively at the regional level, as the Regional Management
Team Skills Development Program was its core focus. With the abandonment of the regional
structure, however, the TNA has become more or less obsolete. More than 50% of PAWS
training funds were spent in "special training", yet over one-third of the staff who benefited from
this training are no longer with KWS. While these data need to be considered in light of
retrenchment, the cost of special out-of-country postgraduate and advanced training was high,



and much of it may have been unnecessary given the availability of professionals in the job
market. On the other hand, the "real" cost may be lower if the professionals who were trained
are currently contributing to conservation, albeit outside of KWS.
19.   At the time of the ICR, training of has been drastically curtailed as a result of KWS'
scaling down of costs. The training plan prepared by the organization for 1999-2000 is budgeted
at over 67 million Ksh, yet the actuial budgetary allocation for training is Ksh 144,000. On this
basis, it can be stated that efforts to institutionalize training have been less successful than
anticipated.
20.   The project made a substantial investment in refurbishing the Naivasha Training Institute
(NTI). KWS reports that this has been very useful in training its staff and improving morale.
However, at the time of the ICR, KWS had not held any training at NTI for over a year.
Therefore, the facility is presently underutilized by KWS for its own training. A second
objective of the investment was that NTI could provide a source of income by being offered on a
commercial basis for workshops and seminars to outside entities. Since January 1998 the NTI
facilities have hosted outside events, and KWS reports that through this initiative the institute has
been able to cover its operation costs, and had a surplus of Kshs. 2.5 million. However, this
figure excludes salaries, which should be part of the equation. In addition, a number of concems
have been raised by KWS's own auditors regarding the management of NTI. These include poor
costing and collection of charges for seminars and parties; failure to maintain proper records of
seminars, courses, workshops and parties held at the institute; poor record keeping of debtors;
and courses held for which no funding was identified. It thus appears that the financial
sustainability of the NTIF will depend on KWS's ability to correct these problems. Assessment of
Outcome: Marginally satisfactory and unlikely to be sustainable.
Finzn2cDn Management and Sustainability
21.   The financial objective of improving KWS's financial management has not fully been
met. Many reasons account for this outcome. The design of the PAWS project did not
sufficiently allow for the time and effort required to redirect and organize KWS's weak financial
management capacity into an organization able to implement, monitor, and control a complex
investment program. This had a major influence on the financial objective related to the
implementation of a sound financial management system. The decision to front-load the project
with investment and activities while justified on other grounds, was not ideal from the financial
management point of view. KWS was neither ready, nor able, to support the level of activity to
implement PAWS. Additionally, the organization was unable to use fully the technical
assistance and financial resources offered under PAWS to improve its financial planning and
management capacity.
22.   The financial performance of KWS did not fulfill the expectations as quantified in the
SA]R, when considered on a revenue versus cost basis. The combination of lower income and
higher than anticipated expenditures negated positive revenue retums and precluded the
accumulation of the predicted monetary reserves. While KWS did experience substantial income
groxvth during the first years of the project (partly as a result of raising entry fees to the park), the
level of visitation did not grow steadily at the predicted rate of 3% per year. Another reason for
lower than projected revenues is that the diversification and development of new income sources



did not take place. To date, KWS remains highly dependent upon park entry fees as its principal
revenue source. To what degree this was due to factors outside KWS's control, or due to lack of
tourism marketing and business development, is hard to assess. Nonetheless, it seems that there
was insufficient to "clean-up" pre-existing bad or non-performing leases and concessions, or to
work with the private sector to develop new revenue opportunities. 2 Finally, the failure to carry
out the work needed to develop the trust fund as envisioned in the SAR, meant that there was no
possibility to even begin fundraising to prepare for the eventual end of PAWS funding. In
retrospect, it was a mistake to assume that KWS could function without a continuing, substantial
GOK subvention.
23.   While it is true that revenues did not meet the original projections of the SAR, during
supervision, and particularly at the time of the Mid Term Review, the Bank team repeatedly
recommended to KWS that they carry out strategic business and financial planning, and contain
raising costs. KWS's management failed to act adequately on the recommendations, and
continued on the financial path that led to a pervasive deficit. Much of the growth in KWS's
expenditures was in response to a shift in policy direction in 1994 which significantly broadened
the institution's mandate. KWS engaged in activities for which it had no sustainable funding
(such as community projects and biodiversity conservation outside parks), or for which it was
not fully compensated (providing tourist security outside protected areas). These activities
developed into an important part of the KWS's mandate and impeded KWS's efforts to reduce
operational costs. At the time of the ICR KWS had initiated a financial assessment and planning
process aimed at rectifying these problems. The assessment of this component could change if
these efforts prove successful. Assessment of Outcome: Unsatisfactory.
Infrastructure Development and Rehabilitation
24.   It is clear that the infrastructure developed by PAWS brought about positive benefits in
terms of wildlife protection and, to a lesser degree, tourism in protected areas. The
transportation systems, including air support and roadways has been critical in managing
protected area wildlife populations, enforcing poaching restrictions and providing access for both
KWS personnel and tourists. Fencing projects have reduced community/wildlife conflicts in
many areas. The Nairobi headquarters provides centralized facilities and the basis for more
efficient operation. Greatly improved housing and ranger accommodations make field support
and patrol operations viable. KWS morale is significantly higher and can be directly linked to
better facilities, uniformns, equipment and vehicles provided under PAWS.
25.   Several short comings in project design implementation are apparent, however. While
the dire circumstances at the inception of PAWS justified certain limited intervention and
maintenance/ repair activities, in retrospect, the bulk of the civil works should have come on-line
gradually, in smaller packages which reflected better articulated conservation priorities, and at a
scale that could be managed within the constraints of the developing technical capacity of KWS.
The document titled "A Policy Framework and Development Programme 1991-1996" (i.e. the
"Zebra Book") provided a detailed planning, yet somehow during implementation many of the
2   Since the time of the ICR mission, KWS has been able to sign a couple of new concession leases at
commercial terms, and is planning to continue the effort of bringing other leases up to market values.



- 8 -
guidelines and plans provided in this document were either ignored or overruled. Additionally, it
is not considered "best-practice" to develop major infrastructure in protected areas in the absence
of approved Park Management Plans, which would serve to guide the type and scope of the
investment. KWS and the planning consultants performed few realistic cost/benefit studies for
many of the individual components. The lack of comprehensive design standards combined with
multiple consultancies complicated project implementation, increased costs, and was detrimental
to overall performance. Many early-project activities consumed considerable program resources,
currently require substantial operating expenditures, and their relation to the central project
objectives is still not well established.
26.   Excessive spending on some infrastructure came at the expense of other development
projects. Several projects were put on hold, others only partially developed, and critical systems
such as electrical and water were eliminated from others due to lack of funding in the later stages
of the project. Despite a substantial input of specialized technical assistance under the project,
limited capacity at KWS (to analyze documents, supervise and coordinate project activities,
process payment vouchers, organize construction costing and document change in valuation
orders) was very costly to the PAWS Civil Works component. Some delays were attributable to
not having the right combination of personnel, and others to having to comply with complex
government bureaucratic requirements such as having to process payment vouchers through two
different ministries. Assessment of Outcome: Marginally satisfactory. While most of the civil
works are of acceptable quality, especially the roads, the Civil Works component could have
been executed at a lower cost and with a more satisfactory outcome3.
Planning Capacity (including EIA)
27.   The establishment of an operational Planning and Policy Division, as envisioned in the
SAR, did not fully take place. Planning efforts at KWS are currently diffuse and poorly
coordinated. Management Information Systems have not been fully implemented and the
importance of conservation planning is still undervalued institutionally. There appears to be lack
of commitment to comprehensive planning at virtually all levels of KWS, except by those
directly employed as planners. Although there is no evidence of any significant negative
environmental impacts from the civil works under PAWS, in some cases, especially early in the
project, Civil Works proceeded without formal EIAs.
28.   On the positive side, as a direct result of PAWS funding, KWS now has a small core of
experienced planners, Geographic Information Systems (ArcInfo and Maplnfo) capabilities, GIS
trained technicians, and other planning tools. Successful conservation planning has been carried
out by KWS for wetlands and marine parks under the Dutch Sponsored Wetlands Project, and
conservation strategies have been developed for elephant and black rhinoceros populations. In
addition, capacity now exists within KWS to prepare and evaluate EIAs. Future activities which
consolidate the gains made under PAWS could prove the usefulness of this component.
Assessment of Outcome: Marginally satisfactory.
3  A detailed evaluation of the infrastructure coniponent can be found in the project files.



-9-
Community Wildlife Programs
29.   The objective of this component was to increase the benefits that communities receive
from wildlife and reduce human/wildlife conflict through: (i) development of sustainable
wildlife-related enterprises; (ii) a revenue benefit sharing program; (iii) reduction of negative
impacts (e.g. crop and livestock raiding); and (iv) education and awareness raising. KWS has
several activities underway designed to create opportunities for communities to benefit from
conservation and sustainable management of wildlife and natural resources. Some
achievements, as reported by KWS are as follows:
*  KWS has assisted in bringing nearly two million hectares of land under community
conservation:13 national reserves/community sanctuaries have been established, and 10
have been proposed for establishment.
* KWS has carried out community-wildlife service training of 40 officers, and has carried
out training focused on building capacity in rural communities.
*  Between 1994-1999, 1061 small projects were funded through the Wildlife for
Development Fund, amounting to approximately 30 million Ksh.
*  KWS has fonvarded 98% of the wildlife/human conflict compensation claims it has
received to the Ministry, and 80% of these have been paid.
30.   While the above information reflects an active community programme, the lack of
baseline data, indicators and means of verification limits the extent to which evaluation of
activities is possible. While KWS has recently developed a monitoring guidelines manual for the
community program, and is currently designing a monitoring plan for the conflict resolution,
monitoring data were not available at the time of this ICR. For example, no information is
available on the impact of the "Wildlife for Development Fund" on wildlife conservation itself
Likewise, no baseline information is available to measure the degree to which KWS's activities
have served improve attitudes towards wildlife among communities.
31.   According to USAID's assessment of the Conservation of Biodiverse Resource Areas
(COBRA), the upheavals in KWS, including a reorganization of the CWS into the Partnerships
Program greatly affected the outcomes of the project. The component suffered because of a lack
of clear guidelines for implementers and communities. Support for project identification and
development was weak and hindered implementation. The project also suffered due to a
changing and often unclear strategic plan for the partnership program. Training of KWS
community officers in community development techniques occurred, but many trained officers
were transferred or left service, and new officers joined the program near its completion.
Despite this, anecdotal information indicates that communities felt that the relationship with
KWS had greatly improved. KWS is now perceived as a source of support, ideas and assistance,
not as an enemy. KWS has responded to weak community capacity by focusing on group
education and training in planning as well as management. However, monitoring has been weak
and no standardized system of data collection took place to infer any change in community
attitudes towards conservation, as opposed to towards KWS, as a result of the project.



- 10 -
Assessment of Outcome: Unrated due to lack of both baseline data and of a systematic
evaluation of impact.
Elephant Conservation and Community Wildlife Programme
32.   According to the European Union's independent assessment of this component, the
programme has contributed in a significant way towards the first of three main purposes (rural
communiities support and engage in elephant conservation), by reducing disbenefits of elephants
to rural communities. It has contributed positively, but to a limited extent to the second purpose
(poaching conitained at a low lever) through supply of vehicles and a database system, but the
surveillance and security systems of KWS have not been seriously challenged by high ivory
prices over the period of the programme. It has been less successful in achieving the third
purpose (improved management of elephant habitats) in that wildlife policy concerning the
management of forests has yet to be improved, and forest encroachment and illegal tree felling
remain severe conservation problems.
33. - In the long term, the elephant programme itself is unlikely to be sustainable under the
current economic conditions. The programme has generated no additional revenues of income
for KWS to offset'against the additional direct costs of elephant conservation. The program has
yielded little or no economic benefit for the local communities living in elephant areas. While it
is true that it has reduced disbenefits through fence construction, even this significant
achievement is currently jeopardized by lack of maintenance provisions. Assessment of
Outcome: Marginally satisfactory.
Environmental Education, Communication and Public Awareness
34.   The objectives for this component have not been achieved. If anything, these
conservation services were weakened during PAWS implementation as a result of reorganization
and institutional devaluation of their importance. The Education Section as a department within
KWS was dissolved and its duties were diffusely carried out by four different departments for
part of the project period In September 1998, however, the Department was re-established, and
is currently undertaking a set of activities as follows: increasing environmental awareness by
bringing school children and facilitating access to the parks for people without vehicles, special
school programs, student volunteer placements, training, and coordinating with stakeholders.
Given that these activities began relatively late on the life of the project, it was impossible to
assess their impact at the time of the ICR. Assessment of Outcome: Unsatisfactory as a project
component, but recent improvement noted.
Tourism Development and Management
35.   The benefits to tourism of the infrastructure developed are difficult to quantify. The
preponderance of funding was spent on roads, gates, shops facilities, ranger housing, fencing,
etc. For the purposes of well-rounded tourism development, more attention should have been
given to developing recreational opportunities such as camping facilities, trails, and picnic areas
within the PAs. Once again, these types of developments were planned in the "Zebra Book" but
not followed through.



- 11 -
36.   Lack of cost/benefit analysis was also a problem. For example, the Tourism Department
of KWS has identified at least ten civil works projects, seven of which were completed in 1998
that are of uncertain value to KWS as tourism investments (see the detailed report on
Infrastructure Development). Some tourism development seemed unrelated to actual tourism
potential. These failures are perhaps attributable to the fact that KWS did not fully accept the
concept of following a business-like approach to investment and operations, or of the need to
develop a good working relationship with the private sector.
37.   The outcomes from the Visitor Management and Services component were poor. There
has been little training for visitor management, recreational studies, visitor profiles, or
interpretation. While the situation is somewhat better than at the inception of the project, park
personnel still maintain a law-oriented approach to customer relations. The Tourism Department
is understaffed and not well integrated into KWS operations. The Tourism Department has
developed a plan for visitor-oriented infrastructure improvements, funding sources, customer
services, and promotion. Some brochures and tourist information materials have been developed
and printed. The modest existing unit could be used as a core for future development of a strong
Tourism Department. However, if tourism planning is to succeed at KWS, more staff and
resources are needed and greater priority must be afforded to these activities. Assessment of
Outcome: Unsatisfactory.
Veterinary Services Unit
38.   According to data presented in the TAESCO report and information gathered during the
mission, the Veterinary Practices Unit (VPU) is fully functional. The Veterinary Center is
completed, equipped, and operational. TAESCO reports that a highly active training program
exists, three staff members received MSc degrees, and many staff have attended short courses
and received special training. The VPU is also engaged in considerable outreach activity.
Accomplishments include capture and translocation of elephants, rhinos, wild dogs, lions and
hirola; radio collaring animals for tracking and research; and monitoring diseases such as
distemper and rinderpest in wildlife populations.
39.   Unfortunately the sustainability of this component is uncertain given KWS' current
financial position. Operation and maintenance costs are very high for this type of service and it
is doubtful whether KWS will be able to afford them. Deterioration is already evident in some
equipment and vehicles and some PAWS-trained personnel have left the department for better
paying jobs. The Animal Clinic facility, which cost almost $1.2 million of the $1.8 million
budgeted for the entire component is not fully utilized. Some examination/operating rooms are
being used as storage rooms at the present time and much of the facility is superfluous. No
cost/benefit studies can be identified which justify the increase in the facility size from a "small
operating facility" as proposed in the SAR to a substantial veterinary center. The increased size
of the facility has high operating costs and monopolized funds that might have been spent more
effectively. Assessment of Outcome: Satisfactory, but not likely sustainable.



- 12 -
Scientific Research and Monitoring
40.   At the start of the PAWS project, the research and monitoring capabilities of KWS were
virtually non-existent. The PAWS program has increased these capabilities: staff is in place and
capable of conducting the type of research and monitoring required by KWS in its conservation
management mandate. However, as yet there is little evidence that research results are being
incorporated into park management decisions.
41.   The research and monitoring programs have been hampered by many issues such as: (i)
changes in personnel, (ii) lack of understanding of the PAWS program, (iii) lack of full-time
department director with strong management skills, and (iv) lack of data and training at project
start-up. Most significantly, a systematic ecological monitoring program, as envisioned in the
SAR, was never developed. This has made it impossible to evaluate the conservation impacts of
the project and of KWS' operations in general. Assessment of Outcome: Marginally satisfactory.
Wildlife Protection and Tourist Security
42.   The Wildlife Protection Unit (WPU) has achieved the objectives of the PAWS program.
The WPU is recognized as one of the most successful, efficient, and effective departments within
KWS. Poaching has declined significantly and visitor security has improved markedly as a
direct result of WPU efforts. WPU management personnel indicate that PAWS funding has
contributed significantly to: (i) increased patrol capabilities; (ii) anti-poaching efforts; (iii)
security for KWS field personnel and tourists; (iv) rescue and medical support; (v) monitoring
support; and (vi) fire-fighting, and other environmental emergency crisis support. Assessment of
Outcome: Highly satisfactory.
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Planned vs. Actual Implementation
43.   At the time of the appraisal, it was estimated that the project would require five years for
implementation, and that it would constitute the first phase of a 10 year project. The actual
implementation, however, required seven years, and no second phase is anticipated. The project
required two extensions, due to late start-up of some activities and later than expected
availability of funds from some donors. Moreover, the KfW suspended disbursements for a year,
following the removal of KWS's first Director. Lack of counterpart funds at the beginning of the
project also delayed implementation.
Factors Affecting Project Implementation
44.   Factors outside government control. The project constituted an emergency intervention
to help Kenya halt the wildlife crisis caused by poaching, banditry and environmental
deterioration in the national parks and reserves, and to assist KWS in implementing an ambitious
policy framework and development program. The fact that the crisis required immediate action
on many fronts explains the large number of project components, designed for simultaneous
implementation. Ultimately, however, the project proved too large for the institutional capacity



- 13 -
at entry. Moreover, the various donor programs were inter-dependent, which proved problematic
as some donors did not provide all of the expected funds or sufficient quality-control of their
programs.
45.   Factors generally subject to government anid imnplementing agency con1trol.
Implementation of the project, and its ultimate effectiveness, was adversely affected by weak
management capacity as well as the radical institutional reorgarLization and policy changes that
occurred with each change of Director. The inherent weakness in KWS' Board left it unable to
provide the strategic vision necessary to make the organization less vulnerable to these repeated
changes in direction and policies.
46.   The absence of up-to-date, supportive legislation for wildlife and environment
management also represented a significant constraint to the performance by the responsible
agencies. Lack of effective policy in the wildlife, land use, and tourism sectors adversely affects
KWS's ability to fulfill its mandate outside National Parks.
47.   Additional delays can be directly attributed to the cumbersome disbursement procedures
at KWS and the Government of Kenya (GOK). Payment was slow (up to 256 days in some
cases) and this directly impacted the project performance. Contractors and Consultants, unable
to meet payroll or pay for materials, simply left the job sites and moved to other work that was
paying more rapidly. These delays also contributed to increased costs, although towards the end
of the project this problem was ameliorated through the establishment of a "buffer fund" for
urgent contractor payments.
48.   Finally, this project must be seen within the Kenya context: lack of transparency, poor
governance, deterioration of economic management, have all contributed to some of the
shortcomings of project implementation.
Disbursements
49.   In the Project Development Credit Agreement, the allocated budget for procurement of
goods and services (including civil works and training) amounted to SDR 29.50 million or 66%
of the total Credit amount. The breakdown was as follows: 38% for civil works, 1 1% for goods
and supplies, 11% for consultancy services and 5% for training. From the Bank's ICS data, the
aggregate figure (of disbursed and undisbursed amounts) of US$ 40.47 million4 under the four
categories is 63% of the Credit, out of which 26% is for civil works, 19% for goods, 14% for
consultancies, and 4% for training. This means that funds were reallocated from one category to
another during implementation. According to these figures, the budgets for civil works and
training were reduced by 32% and 4% respectively, wvhile those for goods and consultancies
were increased by 69% and 26% respectively.
50.   Under civil works, Project funds were used for the construction and rehabilitation of
KWS office blocks, ranger houses and roads in the national parks. Among the items of goods
and supplies financed from the proceeds of the credit included vehicles, aircraft and aircraft
4  Excluding amounts committed (US$ 13,102.94) and payments made by the Govenmment but not reimbursed by the Bank
(of Ksh 1,449,139.50 and tJS$ 49,143.85).



- 14 -
spare parts, office equipment and communication equipment. Consultancy services fall under
two subcategories namely consultancies for design and construction supervision, and technical
assistance consultancies.
Procurement
51.   Overall procurement under the project was satisfactory. It was helpful that: (i) the Task
Team Leader was based in Nairobi, (ii) there had been a procurement specialist at the Resident
Mission assigned to the Project for consultations and guidance, and (iii) KWS formulated its own
procurement guidelines (which are similar to the Bank guidelines) for the acquisition of goods
and services through contracts that were below the Bank prior review thresholds. At the same
time, there were instances of long delays both in the finalization of procurement processes and in
the delivery of goods or completion of construction works for a number of reasons:
(a) Weak procurement capacity. At the preparation and appraisal stages of the project, no
institutional arrangements were made to establish a strong procurement team with multi-
disciplinary qualifications and adequate knowledge of Bank procurement procedures.
Hence, it took KWS staff considerable time to become conversant with the preparation
of Bank bidding documents. Insufficient numbers of staff were available to evaluate the
suitability of the designs provided by the consultants to the local site conditions. To
minimize costs, some consultants may have eschewed site visits and finalized design
work at their head offices. Consequently, as construction of offices and staff houses
progressed, on-site KWS staff demanded modifications in the design of the buildings or
rectification of structural omissions, which eventually led to increases in costs and
delays in completion of the construction.
(b) Delays in payments. Because of the lengthy payment processing procedures of the
GOK, contractors were often not paid within the agreed payment schedules of the
contracts. Delayed payments resulted in the suspension of activities and claims for
compensation for idle periods by the contractors, and hence additional costs and
prolonged completion periods.
(c) Weaknesses in the TA staff recruited for procurement-related activities. A number of
engineers, architects, and quantity surveyors were employed by KWS under Technical
Assistance contracts. TA salaries were not pegged to performance, and the expiration of
the contracts coincided with the closing date of the project. The result was that there
was little or no incentive to complete projects in a timely manner or assure high quality
work.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
52.   The PAWS project strategy devoted virtually all project resources to the development of
KWS. Hence, if KWS does not succeed in the long term as an effective institution, the impact of
the project becomes questionable. KWS has struggled throughout the implementation of PAWS
to make effective use of project resources. In the end, institutional instability and failure to
formulate an enduring strategic vision have limited KWS' ability to protect and manage Kenya's



- 15 -
wildlife. Chronic financial problems, both in terms of revenues and management, have
exacerbated the situation. In particular, failure to consider the recurrent operation and
maintenance cost implications for the infrastructure and equipment acquired under the project
may undermine project achievements to date. The sum of KWS's own revenues and allocations
from the central Government budget seem, at this point, inadequate to enable KWS to finance
current operations and maintenance needs. Some of the equipment procured under PAWS is
inoperable due to lack of relatively minor spare parts, e.g. tires for transport equipment. Signs of
deterioration are evident in some buildings constructed under the project. While some of the
institutional capacity strengthened under PAWS will endure, and some of the infrastructure and
equipment will still be useful for years to come, unless these problems are addressed through
better financial planning, financial constraints will render the long-term impacts of the project
unsustainable. On a positive note, KWS has informed the Bank that it has embarked on a major
exercise to evaluate its equipment and infrastructure in order to determine the level needed to
sustain optimal operations and is developing maintenance plans
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
53.   Summary. The Bank's performance on identification was satisfactory. An intervention
on the wildlife sector at the time was merited by the prevailing conditions. The Bank's
performance in assisting the borrower with project preparation was tutnsatisfactory. Project
design was too ambitious in that it did not adequately consider the implications of weak
institutional and financial capacity on the part of the client to implement such a large project.
The project should have been designed to be implemented in phases. In fairness, the project
design responded to the severe crisis in the wildlife sector. At the time, there was reason for
optimism by the Borrower and donors that by addressing the problems in all fronts, the project
would address the immediate crisis while creating a sustainable institution. The Bank's
performance at appraisal was unsatisfactory. In addition to not recognizing the lack of capacity
to implement the exceedingly complex project, appraisal did not give enough consideration of
the sustainability of the investment, particularly with respect to the recurrent costs associated
with maintenance and operation of the infrastructure and equipment acquired under the project.
The Bank's performance in supervision was unsatisfactory. Despite a high level of dedication,
technical expertise and vigilance by the staff supervising the project, supervision was not fully
effective in that there was inadequate follow-up to the recommendations made by the supervision
teams. The Bank did not take a strong stance when it became clear that KWS was straying from
its stated objectives, nor when KWS repeatedly failed to implement agreed actions. It does not
appear to have been a matter of lack of Management attention, but rather Management
willingness to take the risk that suspending funding would lead to even greater problems in the
sector.
Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
54.   The PAWS project supported several important objective's of the Bank's overall country
strategy -- assisting Kenya in protecting and managing its valuable and unique resources,
exploring new avenues for generating foreign exchange in a sustainable basis, and improving the
efficiency of parastatals. The project constituted an emergency intervention to help Kenya halt
the crisis of poaching, banditry and environmental deterioration in the national parks and



- 16 -
reserves, and to enable the newly created KWS to implement the ambitious policy framework
and development program designed with the assistance of the Bank-administered Japanese
Technical Assistance Grant. In view of the urgency of the situation on the ground, the GOK's
demonstrated commitment to change by establishing KWS as a parastatal (able to retain its
revenues), and strong support from other donors, the project was approved with only limited
economic analysis and with the understanding that the existing inadequacies in the legislative
framework and institutional capacity would be addressed during the first year of the project.
55.   The project was prepared and approved speedily due to the need for immediate action to
stop the poaching and restore security to the parks. The fact that the crisis required immediate
action on some many fronts explains in great part the resulting project design. In retrospect, the
project had too many components designed for simultaneous implementation and was far too
large for the institutional capacity at project start-up. The project should have been implemented
in phases, so that the legislative and institutional capacity were substantially strengthened before
making major investments in infrastructure development.
56.   Additionally, the design and appraisal team failed to recognize the consequences to KWS
of implementing such large project while it was undertaking radical retrenchment and capacity
building. In many cases the project overwhelmed the relatively new organization rather than
strengthening it. Moreover, while preparation addressed issues of project management of the
project, it failed to address issues of governance. Specifically, KWS's Board was weak, had no
detailed Terms of Reference, and Board members did not seem to have a clear understanding of
their roles and responsibilities.
57.   Project design and appraisal also did not give enough consideration to the recurrent cost
implications of maintaining the infrastructure and equipment acquired under the project As the
project draws to a close, it appears that KWS will not be able to support many of these costs, and
thus a substantial part of the investment will not be sustainable.
58.   At the time of appraisal, there was an overly optimistic view of the possibility for donor
coordination. Several of the various donor programs were closely intertwined and inter-
dependent. For example, ODA/DflD's support for financial management strengthening and
institutional development was crucial to the success of the other components. This assumption
of inter-dependency proved problematic as, for many reasons, some donors did not perform as
expected, and the Bank had no mechanism for imposing "quality-control." As a result, the
overall quality of PAWS implementation suffered substantially, particularly in the area of
financial management capacity.
59.   The project also suffered by not having a suitable set of pre-defined M&E parameters; the
indicators found in the SAR do not correspond to the project's objectives. The indicators are
inadequate to properly evaluate the project and of limited value for guiding either supervision or
the ICR evaluation. In particular, there were no perforrnance targets that could objectively alert
client and donors of project shortcomings. It must be noted, however, that such a logical
framework for project preparation was not widely used at the inception of PAWS, so it is
inappropriate to judge the design methodology by current standards.



- 17 -
Supervision
60.   The change of management within KWS in 1994 resulted in a change of policy direction
which was not fully compatible with the original project objectives. The Bank did not fully
address the implications of the creeping (and in some cases explicit) shift in policy as well as the
expanded mandate of KWS on the project's ability to meet its original objectives.
61.   As reflected by the comprehensive and meticulously prepared Aide Memoires from the
supervision missions, the team was aware, and discussed at length with KWS's management,
project shortcomings. However, because project management on the part of KWS was deficient,
supervision missions tended to be "problem oriented" and reactive. The Aide Memoires reflect
many valid agreed upon actions, which at times obscured the strategic vision necessary for
project success. Notwithstanding, the Mid-Term Review did identify key strategic issues, but
these were not resolved in a timely manner by KWS, nor given sufficiently forceful follow-up by
Bank's management.
62.   As discussed above, supervision was hampered by a lack of pre-defined M&E
parameters. More importantly, however, the data needed to evaluate the project's impact on the
ground was not available. The issue of information gathering by Bank's supervision missions is
problematic. For example, information as to whether conservation and management impacts
were being achieved on the ground was to have been provided by the M&E activities undertaken
by KWS. However, ecological monitoring of the parks, biological and socio-economic
monitoring of the community program, etc. were never carried out systematically by KWS,
despite this being an "agreed action." Information of the impact of the institutional capacity
building components was also not readily available (e.g. performance reviews of staff to assess
the impact of training, intemal audits, etc). Thus, realistically, the opportunity provided to the
supervision team to use "objective" indicators of project status was very limited.
63.   Somewhat inconsistent with the findings of the various missions, implementation was
rated as "satisfactory" throughout most of the life of the project. It is worth noting that the
GOK's Ministry of Finance also rated implementation of the PAWS project as very high. This
rating, however, seems generous in light of what was going on in the ground. In retrospect, the
Bank and the GOK may have lacked a global perspective as to the cumulative effect of
individual project shortfalls, which when put together, resulted in weak project implementation
and overall impact. Follow-up of supervision missions was not as active as it should have been:
the Bank was too slow in communicating formally with Government and KWS, and the
communications from management did not raise the issues forcefully enough. Overall, the Bank
did not take a strong stance when it became clear that KWS was straying from its stated
objectives, or when KWS repeatedly failed to follow-through on agreed actions. On the other
hand, realistically, the only real action that the Bank could have taken was to suspend
disbursements. This would have caused further delays, higher costs, and greater instability at
KWS. Hence, it is difficult to second guess what action would have been most beneficial.
64.   It is clear that the project could also have benefited from a more concerted action on the
part of the co-financiers. Not all donors were consistent in sharing information such as reports
from studies and findings of missions which would have allowed for more informed dialog.
More importantly, however, towards the second half of the implementation period, some donors



- 18 -
did not support the Bank attempts to correct project deficiencies. This lack of a united front
substantially reduced the Bank's leverage.
65.   KWS reports high satisfaction with Bank's staff responsiveness to requests for feedback,
for providing speedy no-objections, and for providing highly competent technical support. Co-
financiers also reported overall satisfaction with the Bank's performance, although some donors
felt that more advance notice of forthcoming Bank supervision missions would have allowed
them to better prepare for the missions.
66.   In terms of the skill mix for supervision, the team would have benefited from having a
private sector/business development specialist to strategically address the issue of financial
sustainability. Also, the inclusion of a protected areas infrastructure specialist/planner in the
team may have improved the supervision of the infrastructure component.
67.   To be fair, however, Bank's performance on this project must be evaluated within the
Kenya context: despite the problems described above, the PAWS project is still recognized as
one of the best projects in the country. While not an excuse, it does explain some of the severe
difficulties encountered by the supervision team. The effort and dedication exhibited by the
project team in this context is noteworthy.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
68.   KWS's performance in implementing PAWS can be considered as unsatisfactory.
Despite notable short-term achievements (controlling of poaching, maintaining protection of
wildlife in the protected areas, and to a lesser degree, outside the areas through community
wildlife programs), and despite the clear dedication of its staff, KWS was able to realize the full
potential of the PAWS project, nor did it make sufficient effort to assure the long term-
sustainability of the project.
69.   In fairness to KWS, it was unrealistic to expect that, being a relatively new organization
at the inception of PAWS, it would be able to efficiently implement a large project while
undergoing radical retrenchment and capacity building activities. Moreover, the burden imposed
by the differing requirements of the six donors would have been excessive.for any organization.
70.   Some have argued that the extensive input of extemal technical expertise had a
destabilizing effect on KWS rather than strengthening the institutional capacity, as it was
intended. While this may have been the end result, it is partly attributable to the fact that KWS
did not fully take advantage of the resources and expertise provided. One indication of this is the
fact there seems to be no central register of the myriad of reports produced by the project, nor a
central archive where the documents can be found. Moreover, a high proportion of the available
reports do not go beyond draft versions, indicating that these have not received final review or
approval by the relevant managers.
71.   Implementation of the project, and its ultimate effectiveness, was adversely affected by
the radical institutional reorganization and policy changes that occurred with each change of
Director. In particular, the change of management within KWS in 1994 brought about a change
of policy direction which was not fully compatible with the original project objectives (derived



- 19 -
directly from the policy and planning outlined in the "Zebra Book"). The implications of the
policy shift and KWS' expanded mandate to the project's ability to meet its original objectives
was never directly addressed. Specifically, no strategic adjustments were made in response to
KWS's extended mandate to manage biodiversity outside protected areas. Regardless of the
merit of the new approach, this shift needed to be accompanied by a sound financial strategy, an
articulated prioritization of actions, and a reevaluation of the project objectives. Instead, KWS
pursued its expanded mandate without considering the financial implications to the organization.
KWS engaged in costly, non revenue earning activities (e.g. problem animal control, security in
the vicinity of the parks and reserves and in the Country Council owned reserves, and
community development initiatives). These are important public services but they overtaxed
KWS's staff and operating-resources, and ultimately resulted in financial crisis.
72.   The failure by KWS's management to carry out adequate business and financial planning
is a serious shortcoming of PAWS implementation. This reflects an overall weakness in the
management culture of KWS, including a failure to set financial goals, prioritize activities in line
with resource constraints, assess the cost-effectiveness of operations, set realistic budgets, and
control expenditures. While KWS's revenues grew substantially during the first five years of the
project, its operating costs grew even faster, creating a large operating deficit. KWS's action in
1998 of borrowing a substantial sum at highly unfavorable terms to meet this deficit, without
realistic prospects of servicing the debt, reflects the gravity of the problem. After the
Government declined to provide a letter of comfort to guarantee the overdraft, KWS provided as
security several non-gazetted properties which it holds in trust for the people of Kenya. While it
may have been unavoidable to seek short-term financing, KWS was eschewing its fiduciary
responsibilities by putting these national assets at risk. While the overdraft was finally cleared
with funds facilitated by the GOK and the European Union, the incident highlights KWS's
financial management shortcomings.
73.   Good cost/benefit analysis and a logical framework linking investment costs to project
objectives, which would have provided the basis for sound judgments at several critical project
stages, were missing. Excessive spending in infrastructure throughout the project without
justifiable benefits came at the expense of other development projects. As a result, several
investments were put on hold, others were only partially developed, and critical systems such as
electrical and water were eliminated from others due to lack of funding in the later stages of the
project. Some investments were entered into without proper business/ financial feasibility
studies. For example, the restaurant at the Nairobi Headquarters, and the Naivasha Training
Institute, which were meant to diversity KWS's revenue sources, both consumed considerable
program resources and are at least for now a financial burden to KWS.
74.   The Government did not take necessary actions to ensure the long-term benefits of its
substantial investment in spite of repeated warnings by the Bank conceming the problems
articulated above. In particular, the Mid-Term Review identified key strategic issues, yet these
were not timely addressed by KWS, nor given forceful follow-up by the GOK.
75.   KWS's Board has not provided active and effective oversight for successful
implementation of PAWS. In reality, the Board is hampered by not having Terms of Reference
defining the responsibility and authority to set policy and to supervise management performance.
Moreover, the Board is not truly representative of the stakeholders, and members are not



- 20 -
appointed on the basis of their specific expertise, competence, or constituency. Board members
do not seem to have had a clear understanding of their roles and responsibilities. While some of
these problems of governance were to be addressed by the new legislation, this is still pending.
The failure of the GOK to establish an adequate Board contributed to the weak implementation
of the PAWS project.
76.   One of the key objectives of PAWS was to develop a policy and legislative framework
for wildlife management. Thus, the failure of the GOK to bring to fruition the considerable
effort spent in developing the Wildlife Bill also represents a failure to achieve PAWS' project
objectives.
77.   Finally, KWS did not carry out satisfactory monitoring of project implementation, nor an
evaluation of the impact of the PAWS project. Despite this being an "agreed action", KWS did
not undertake systematic monitoring of the parks, biological and socio-economic monitoring of
the community program, etc. Data on the impact of the institutional capacity-building
components of PAWS was not readily available nor used as an effective tool for management
(e.g. performance reviews of staff to assess the impact of training, internal audits, etc).
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
78.   The outcome of the project is considered uniisatisfactory. This rating is based both a
failure to achieve key development objectives and on the uncertain sustainability of project gains
at the time of the [CR. The ultimate outcome of the project, as well as the maintenance of the
assets and resources provided it provided, are threatened by KWS's deteriorating financial
position and related management weaknesses, and by shortcomings in the policy framework and
public investment program relating to the wildlife and tourism sector. If KWS' current efforts to
address these problems are successful, the outlook for sustainability will improve.
H.  FUTURE OPERATION
79.   As the ICR team has not yet received the Project Implementation Plan detailing the
arrangements and strategies for ensuring the sustainability of the project's investment, it is very
difficult to evaluate the prospects for future operation. However, expenditure and revenue trends
raise a series of concerns regarding the ability of the institution to fully meet its mandate and
obligations given the level of income it is likely to receive. In particular, KWS's heavy reliance
on revenues from tourism to cover its operating costs makes it particularly vulnerable as
fluctuations of tourism levels, a factor mostly outside its control. Lack of provisions (and
prospects for having the resources needed), for maintaining the infrastructure and equipment
provided under the project severely jeopardizes the achievements of the project, and raises
concerns for future operation.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Experience shows that it is essential to assure that appropriate policy and legislation are
in place before making major investments in a sector. Investing under the promise/



- 21 -
expectation that the needed policy and legislation will be developed during project
implementation seems to rarely work.
Govemance issues must be addressed at the project design stage to ensure accountability
and transparency of project management and implementation. For example, the lack of
terms of reference and clear guidelines for Boards can undermine the effectiveness of an
institution. In addition, it is important to recognize and take into account that many
institutions are strongly influenced by the personality and style of the Director, and to
incorporate elements to address the problems that this can raise.
•  Complex projects, which are too large for the institutional capacity at entry, should be
implemented in phases that are closely related to existing capacity for project
management and design. Institutional capacity should be adequately strengthened before
making major investments in areas whose success is largely dependent on institutional
capacity, e.g. infrastructure development. A large, complex program should not be
grafted onto an emergency operation because the urgency prevents adequate preparation
of non-emergency elements.
* It is not advisable to rely heavily on outside technical assistance (both local and
international contracts) to handle implementation of project activities. Specifically, key
line positions within a government organization should not be widely filled wvith external
technical assistance professionals. This'tends to depress morale of staff, and the
remuneration levels required to hire external specialists is not consistent with the long
term financial viability of a government institution. Where TA is provided, provisions
should be made for the organization to assume ownership of resulting products, and for
using the added resources and expertise to build long-term internal capacity.
* A training needs assessment which is clearly linked to other components (such as
retrenchment or institutional reorganization), must be conducted before investing in
human resources development.
* Investment in long-term (degree) training, both national and international, is not a viable
and sustainable strategy for capacity building. Experience shows that too many trained
staff members seek other employment upon completion of training, particularly if the
institution to which they are returning does not offer competitive compensation.
* Where there is weak institutional capacity to manage complex civil works activities,
project design should ensure that civil works come on-line gradually, are in line with
clearly articulated conservation priorities, and the number and scale of the procurement
and services packages allow for proper supervision given existing human resource
constraints.
* Employing several independently-acting Consultants to implement Civil Works
components may lead to lack of standardization of design, impedes supervision, and may
increase costs. Moreover, strict reporting requirements for Civil Works Consultants must
be developed before project implementation.



- 22 -
*  Project activities must be developed within a logical planning framework that clearly
links management objectives with the activities, articulates expected targets, includes a
realistic chronological order for implementation and analyzes the investments in terms of
both the immediate benefits and the long-term recurrent-costs implications.
*  Area management plans, policy statements establishing conservation objectives,
Environmental Impact Assessments, and participatory conservation planning should be
mandated prerequisites to large infrastructure development in protected areas.
*  Programs whose objectives are recognized and valued by a majority stakeholders, or
those which mesh most closely to existing institutional culture are the ones most likely to
succeed. Moreover, project components such as planning will be successful only if there
is institutional recognition of their value.
*  Project design and appraisal must give adequate consideration to the recurrent cost
implications of maintaining the infrastructure and equipment acquired under the project.
Lack of maintenance provisions and of financial resources allocated for this purpose can
severely jeopardize project achievements.
i  Careful consideration must be given during preparation and appraisal to monitoring and
evaluation indicators and arrangements. Lack of baseline data and appropriate indicators
(directly related to project objectives), and adequate means of verification will limit the
extent to which is possible to evaluate project impact.
e  Mechanism which facilitate Donor coordination, improve information transfer, and allow
for concerted action must be in place.
The lessons identified by KWS in their ICR are largely consistent with these (e.g. the
need to ensure capacity is in place prior to making major investments, the dangers of relying
on extemal consultants for capacity building). Overall, however, the KWS ICR focuses on
achievement of activities, as opposed to outcomes as is the case in this document. As a
result, the KWS' own assessment is considerably more positive. It would be important to
follow up on this difference in perception to ensure that all parties derive the maximum
benefit from the ICR exercise.



- 23 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
PROTECTED AREAS AND WILDLIFE SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT 2334-KE
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table I 1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



- 24 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                       Q                                   Q 
Sector Policies                                                        E  z
Financial Objecives                  Q                 a
Institutional Development            Q[                                                  Q 
Physical Objectives                  Q                v                Q                 Q
Poverty Reduction                    Q               I ] 
Gender Issues                        a               E                 1        
Other Social Objectives              E                v                a                 a
Environmental Objectives             v                                 Q                 I ]
Public Sector Management             E                v                 ]                0
Private Sector Development           E                                                   0 1a
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                    Unlikely                  Uncertain
l-lighly
C. Bank Performance                 satisfacton-               Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                                                Q OQ
Preparation Assistance               a                        o                          v
Appraisal                            I]                       0 
Supervision                          Q                        Q 
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              satisfactory              Satisfactor                 Deficient
Preparation                                                   0                          0
Implementation                       0                        0
Covenant Compliance                                                                      0 IJ
Operation (if applicable)                                     0
HighlyH
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactonr    Satisfactory    UnsatisfactonF     unsatisfactorv
0               E                                   0 E



- 25 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                             | Year of Approval |Status
Preceding operations
1. Forestry Development Project                      1990         Completed
Following operations
1. Tana River Project (GEF Grant)                    1996         Ongoing
2. Biodiversity Strategy Project (GEF Grant)         1997         Completed
3. Lake Victoria Enviromnental Management Project    1996         Ongoing
4. LEWA Wildlife Conservation Project (GEF Grant)    1999         Ongoing
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date Planned      Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  12/11/90       11/23/90 - 12/7/90
Preparation                              2/18/91           2/18/91
Appraisal                                6/10/91           6/6-28/91
Negotiations                              11/18/91          11/18/91
Board Presentation                        11/91            2/11/92
Signing                                  3/30/92           3/30/92
Effectiveness                            6/30/92           7/08/92
Midterm review                            12/94            1/16 - 2/02/96
Project Completion                        9/30/97          6/30/99
Loan Closing                              9/30/97          6/30/99
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thoutsanids)
FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimate        3.60    13.20   25.30   37.40   49.50   60.30   60.50
Actual                    7.19    18.94   27.66   42.32   52.49   53.28   59.18
Actual as % of estimate   199%   143%   109%   113%   106%   88%    98%
Date of final disbursement   December 10, 1999



Table 5: Modified Indicators Of Project Implementation
Development Objective             Indicator of outcome/impact                                               Status
1. Halt/reverse decline of    *   Stable/recovering population densities of key  General trends: Poaching is not a significant problem for elephants, although in
Kenya's wildlife populations  wildlife species: (i) inside parks/reserves; (ii) in    localized areas elephants may be exceeding carrying capacity. Black rhino numbers are
wildlife areas outside parks/reserves.      increasing slowly, poaching not a significant threat for rhinos in past seven years,
although 2 were poached in 1997. Conservation efforts in last decade show
Measuremient: through population survey counts (KWS
MeSSaeurimen surveys poflatgehbivonurves fromnt (9 ,' improvements and stabilization in some critical mammal populations (buffalo, eland,
1998, otherial esearcheys oflargeherbivoresfrom1977- gerenuk, lesser kudu and ostrich). Rare animals are at best stable or status is unknown.
There is a general downward trend in large herbivore populations in range lands in past
2 decades. No reduction of poaching outside protected areas (Butynski et al 1995).
Since the 1980's, 10 of 18 species inDRSRS census showed overallpopulation'
declines. General pattem of decline throughout country: numbers have declined in
protected areas, but even more so in wildlife areas without protected status. Areas with
established community programs (e.g. Amboseli, Mackakos, LaTiripia) all show positive
trends in census data, while adjacent areas without community programs (e.g. Athi
Kapiti Plains & Eastern Kaputei) show declines over the same period (Githaiga, 1998).
2. Halt/reverse decline of   *   Biodiversity/ecosystem quality within parks and  Trends in overall health of Kenya's ecosystems, including flora and non-mammals are
Kenya's National Parks and    reserves maintained/ improved.               hard to assess, and data not readily available. Marine ecosystems are clearly suffering
reserves as:                                                               from over-fishing & pollution. Indigenous forests continue to be unsustainably
(i) natural ecosystems; and  Measurement: through ecological monitoring by KWS    exploited. Amboseli shows plant species richness decline due to heavy herbivore use,
(ii) tourist attractions  and collaboratig institutions,                 exacerbated by fencing. KWS's not yet carrying out systematic ecological monitoring,
*   Visitor infrastructre rehabilitated! developed!  so do not have enough data to evaluate objectively.
expanded (KWS and private sector); visitor security Little visitor infiastructure other than roads developed.
improved and maintained; increase in visitor
numbers/days.                                Visitor security significantly improved.
Measurement: not provided in PSR, but assessment can   Visitor numbers/days remained constant or declined.
be made through review of project records, evaluation of Considerable civil works completed but not well planned nor necessarily consistent with
quility of civil works completed, and statistics on both
tourist visits and safety.                       project objectives,
26



Development Objective             Indicator of outcome/impact                                               Status
3. Establish sound basis for  *  KWS revenues increase and costs decrease --  Revenues have not increased as expected (SAR). Costs have increased more than
wildlife conservation and   ultimately eliminate operating deficit for core  first anticipated, and the operational deficit has not been eliminated.
environmentally             activities, undertaking activities only as incrernental The KWS has undergone changes and corporate plans, activity-based budgeting and
sustaiable wildlife-based   funding is available                         planning is taking place. Financial management systems have been put in place. A
institutional strengtheni    *  KWS' organizational structure, management  competitive salary structure still needs to be developed and adopted. Some success in
of KWS vis a vis:           systems & "institutional culture" transformed from  transforming the organization into a business like enterprise and to a lesser degree a
a gov. bureaucracy to a business-like enterprise  culture change have taken place, but nearly all changes are at headquarters level. A lot
(i) financial sustainability;  (specific indicators include: Corporate/Business  of capacity building effort needs to be done at the field/local levels (parks). The
..i) b.siness-like operatio; .Plans, activity- based budgeting, fnancial and  organizational structures have been changed so often that a kind of organizational and
(ii) business-Eke operation;    -management information systems and reporting,    mai3agerial limbo exists in KWS at the moment.
(ui) knowledge-based          performance-based human resource management,   No area/park planning process is currently in place; Park Planning Dept. has been
park/area planning and      increasingly competitve salary stucture).    eliminated during restructuring; little management-oriented has taken place; existing
management; and         *  Area/park planning and implementation-process in  planning capacity diffuse and poorly integrated
(iv) env. impact assessment   place, supported by management-oriented research.  EIA policy and procedures were established too late in the project and are still poorly
virnmntl sonudnues of  *  .EIA policy and procedures in place.             integrated into KWS planning.
all development within    Measurement: mechanisms to measure above indicators,
parks and reserves        nor baseline or targets, are provided in PSR.
4. Promote wildlife       *  Increase in number of environmentally/        The lack of baseline data, indicators and means of verification limits the extent to
conservation in critical    fmancially/socially sound local enterprises.  which evaluation of activities is possible. Some achievements are as follows: KWS
areas outside PAS by                                                     has carried out community-wildlife service training of 40 officers, and has carried
increasing the benefits  *  Community action plans developed, KWS-       out training focused on building capacity in rural communities. Currently 13
local communities           community contracts signed, project implemented.  national reserves/community sanctuaries have been established, and 10 have been
receive from wildlife and   *   Fences built and maintained.             proposed for establishment. KWS has forwarded 98% of the wildlife/human conflict
by reducing                                                              compensation claims it has received to the Ministry, and 80% of these have been
human/wildlife conflict    *  Effective Problem Animal Management Program in paid. 280 Kms. of fence have been built. Achievements of fencing activities are
through:                    place.                                       jeopardized, as KWS regional offices do not appear to have budget for fence
.i) development oImrvdmaintenance, and no formal maintenance arrangements have been made with local
(i) development of        *  Iuproved attitudes towards wildlife among     communities. PAWS has contributed significantly towards reducing disbenefits of
sustainable wildlife-       communities near parks/reserves and in key   elephants to rural communities. It has contributed positively, but to a litnited extent
related enterprises;        wildlife areas reflected in behaviors (e.g.) reduced  to containing low-level poaching. PAWS has been less successful in iniprovimg
(ii) revenue benefit siaring  poaching, encroachment and land transformation)   management of elephant habitats, in that wildlife policy concering the management
program;           ~~~and, political processes.                   of forests has yet to be improved, and forest encroachmnent and illegal tree felling
Measurement: mechanisms to measure above indicators, remain severe conservation problems. Between 1994-1999, 1061 small projects
(ui) reduction of negative    nor baseline or targets, are provided in PSR  were funded through the Wildlife for Development Fund, amounting to
impacts (e.g. crop and                                                   approximately 30 million Ksh. No information is available on the impact of these
livestock raiding);                                                      projects on wildlife conservation. Likewise, no baseline information is available to
(iv) education .                                                           measure the degree to which KWS's activities have served improve attitudes towards
awareness raising.                                                       wildlife among communities. A monitoring guidelines manual has been developed,
and will be introduced to staff in workshops. A monitoring plan for the conflict
resolution program is currently under design.
27



- 28 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key operation indicators          Estimated                        Actual
in SAR
Annual Work Plans and         By December 1 each    Annual work plans and budgets are prepared
Budgets prepared in a timely  year for the following    within all departments every year. However,
basis.                        year's program         there is little evidence that this is carried out
in a systematic way at field level. Armual
independent audit reports have been
submitted in time.
Progress Reports prepared in a   Semi-annually by
timely basis.                 March 31 and
September 30 of each
year
Annual Corporate Plan (Five   By March 31 of each   Annual corporate plan developed in 1997.
Year Plan).                   year                   This plan has not been updated since. A five
year plan was developed in 1997.
Annual meetings at KWS held    October of each year
to review progress.
Annual independent audit      By December 31 of
reports submitted on time.    each year for the
preceding financial
year.
Commercial computerized       June 30, 1992         Soon after commencement of PAWS
accounting system in place.                          activities a computerized accounting system .
was established. (AccPac) After introduction
significant difficulties were experienced in
terms of soft cost center and donor
accounting. Sun System then introduced.
First FY it operated was 94/95. The fixed
assets register was implemented in 96/97.
The inventory register is not yet in place.
Donor Coordination Secretariat   Ongoing            Donor Secretariat, while in place, did not
inplace.                                             achieve effective donor coordination.
Bi-annual Donors meetings to    Bi-annual           Not formally carried out, although ongoing
review implementation                                discussions between donors canied out
throughout the year. Many co-financiers
participated in Bank supervision missions.
Bi-annual supervision missions   January and July of  Carried out.
review implementation status.    each year
Mid-term Review               December 1994         Carried out in January 1996.
Procurement of goods and      Ongoing               After initial delays due to lack of familiarity
services in keeping with Bank                       with Bank procedures, procurement
guidelines.                                         improved with experience, and by support
provided by Bank's Resident Mission.
Endemic delays in payments of contractors
caused interruption of work, and increased
costs due to penalties.



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                      Donor                                         Status                   Impact Of Study
(A) Main Studies                                       Purpose as Defined in SAR
Legal                                      USAID       Review Of Wildlife Act             C         Input in proposed wildlife policy and bill
Wildlife Utilization                       AWF         -Ditto-                            C         -Ditto-
Land Use Policy And co-ordination          IDA         -Ditto-                            C         -Ditto-
Tourism Pricing And Development            IDA         Diversify revenue sources          C         Substantial -led to categorization of Parks and
Revision of tariffs and increase in revenue
(B) Minor Studies                                      Purpose of the Study
Elephant Program
Dung Decay And Vegetation In Arabuko Sokoke  EU        To establish elephant numbers      C         Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Vegetation Studies In Amboseli NP          EU          To establish impact of elephant on  C        Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
vegetation
Elephant Community & Habitat Interaction In    EU      To formulate a conflict mitigation  C        Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Northem Grazing Area, Meru/lsiolo                      strategy
Distribution Of Elephants And Crop Raiding  EU         --ditto-      -                    C         Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Patterns In Mara/Narok
Land Use Practices Compatible With Elephant   EU       --ditto--                          C         Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Conservation In Mau Complex
Human And Habitat Interactions With Elephants  EU      --ditto--                          C         Info generated on subject matter-for planning & Mgt
In Masai Mara Area
Optimal Elephant Density In A Laikipia Ranch   EU      Establish carrying capacity        C         Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Characterize Genetics Of Savanna Elephants  EU                                            C         Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Conduct Aerial Survey Of Lamu Elephants    EU          Number distribution status        C          Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Conduct Elephant Survey Of Arabuko Sokoke    EU        --ditto--                          C         Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Conduct Forest Survey Of Dodori NR         EU          --ditto--                          C         Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Monitor Fences In Shimba Hills NR          EU          --ditto--                          C         Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Monitor Vegetation Around Newly Established   EU       Ascertain impact of elephant on    C         Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Watering Points And Within Enclosures                  vegetation
Carry Out A Vegetation Inventory Of Imenti  EU         Establish vegetation status       C          Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Forest
Conduct An Aerial Survey Of                EU          Numbers and distribution status   C          Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Narok/Mar/Nguruman                                                                                  _
Monitor Fences In Laikipia                 EU          Impact of fences                   C         Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Conduct Aerial Survey Of Laikipia/Samburu  EU          Numbers and distribution status   C          Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
29



Study                     Donor,                                       Status                  lmpact Of Study
Conduct Vegetation And Dung Survey Of     EU         Establish elephant density and    C          Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Rumuruti Forest                                      numbers
Conduct Forest Survey Of Matthew's Range  EU         Establish elephant density and    C          Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
numbers
Conduct Forest Survey Of Kirisia/Ndotos Range  EU    Establish elephant density and    C          Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
numbers
Movement And Distribution Of Elephants In  EU         Establish status of elephant     C          Info generated on subject matter for planning
Kamnnarok & S. Turkana
Biodiversity Surveys In Forests           EU         Forest vegetation inventory       C          Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Fonim For Strengthening Research And      EU         Ensure research ids compatible with   C      Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Management                                           elephant management
ElAs At Shimaba, Kimana And Mt Kenya      EU                                           C
Problem Animal Control Operations         EU         Mitigate conflict                 C          Info generated on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Fence Construction                        EU         Involve committees on conservation   C       Info genemted on subject matter for planning & Mgt
Sensitizing Of Communities                EU                                           C
Wetlands Program                                                 .
Interlake Movement Of The Lesser Flamingo In  N      Understand factors responsible for    OG     Infonnation for better and management of flamingoes
Relation To The Conservation Of Saline Lakes         flamningo movement
In Kenya
Economic Development & Resource Use       N          Identify economic values of wetlands  OG     Information for planning of wetlands
Conflict: A Case Study Of The Peripheral
Wetlands Of Lake Victoria
Monitoring The Mangrove Forest Health: A Pest N      To identify and control mangrove  C          Control disease outbreak on mangroves
Infestation In Kiunga And Gazi                       forests
An Evaluation Of Community Utilisation,   N          To understand use/ cultural values of  OG    Information on community use of biodiversity
Conservation & Perception Of A Kenyan                wetlands
Wetland: A Case Study Of Yala Swamps
Land Use Systems And Its Impact On        N          To understand impact of land use on   OG    Information on land uses on biodiversity
Biodiversity: A Case Study Of Lake Bollosat,         wetlands
Nyandarua, Kenya                                                                       _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
TIhe Impact Of Humnan Activities OnTe Macro- N       To understand impact of human     OG        Information on human activities on biodiversity
Invertebrates And Fish Within The Nyando             activities on macro invertebrates
River Basin
Pesticide Pollution And Bio-Accumulation In    N     To understand the effect of pollution   OG  Management to address pollution
The Food Chain Of lake Naivasha
Environmental Assessment Study Of The Upper  N       To understand envirommental values   DR     Info generated on subject matter
Ewaso, KWS/Laikipia Res.Pro. Ngiro System In         of Ewaso ngiro system
Relation To Its Land Use Dynamics
30



Study                      Donor                                         Status                   Impact Of Study
Socio-Economic Considerations Within The   N           To understand the socio-economic   OG        Info generated on subject matter
Land Use Dynamics Of The Upper Ewaso Ngiro             values on biodiversity and tourism
System: A Focus On The Implications On                 management
Biodiversity Conservation & Tourism
Management
Socio-Economic And Ecological Integrity Of  N          Socio economic values of Mida creek  DR      Info generated on subject matter
The Mida Creek System                                  system
Makupa Creek Pollution Assessment          N           Identify pollution                 DR        Info generated on subject matter
Pollution Assessment Mombasa Marine        N           Assess pollution                   OG        Info generated on subject matter
Park/Reserve
Coral Reef Monitoring In Mombasa And Kilifi   N        Understand coral management status   OG      Info generated on subject matter
Lake Naivasha Hydrology & Soil Studies     N           Understand hydrology soil conditions  DR     Info generated on subject matter
(9MSC Studies)
Lake Naivasha Water Budget Assessment Study   N        Understand water balance           OG         Info generated on subject matter for planning
Others                                                 Purpose of the Study
Organization establishment                  ODA        Match job skills, identify         C         Led to restructuring
overstaffing, and propose
organization streamlining.
Restructuring                               ODA        Improve the efficiency in          C         Decentralized and identified 567 retrenchees
management of the organization
Airwing                                     ODA        To determine future operation of the   C     Airwing operating commercial flights and contributing
airwing                                      in revenue for its maintenance.
Retrenchment Design And Implementation      EU         Reduce the wage bill               C          567 personnel retrenched and a saving of about Kshs
52 million realized from their salaries
Culture Change Design                      ODA         Transfonn KWS into a more dynamic  C         Recommendations to be incorporated in
and commercially oriented
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _   organization
Forest Ecosystems                          IDA         Envirornmental impact assessment on   C      -Communities happy with fence
fencing aberdares, consultancies with        -long term barrier alignment design agreed
stakeholders on best barrier type and       -Mitigating measures on any arising negative irnpacts
finally advise on best fence aligrnent       identified.
Cadastal Surveying                         IDA         To facilitate preparation of deed plans  C    10 park surveyed and deed plans approved awaiting
and issuance of titles                      issuance of title deeds
Policy Analysis                            IDA         Wildlife policy preparation        C         Draft Wildlife policy prepared
Financial Analysis study                               Analysis of KWS Financial situation   C      Ist phase recommendations adapted in expenditure
control measures and  strenthenig  the revenue
collection systems
N -The Netherlands          C-Complete      OG- On Going   DR -Draft Report
31



- 32 -
Table 8A: Project Costs (IDA only)
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (IJS$ million)
Item              Local   Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign   Total
costs    costs               costs      costs
1. Headquarters Strengthening   -        -        14.0       7.4       6.70     14.10
2. Training                     -        -         2.2       1.5       .06      2.10
3. Park Infiastr. &             -        -        22.7      21.9       3.70     25.60
Development                                           ___     _
4. Conuninity Wildlife Progm.             -        3.5       0.5       0.50     0.50
5. Education/Visitors Center                       5.1       1.9        -.90
6. Pohcy/Plannming                                 1.0       1.0        -       1.00
7. Research & Spec. Programs                       4.9       4.2       0.02     4.22
8. Veterinary Sevices                              1.4       1.8       0.30     2.10
9. Reserves Infrastr. &         -                  1.9       0.5        -       0.50
Develop.                                                            I
10. Wildlife Protection&                           3.8       4.1       3.10     7.20
Security
Total                                             60.5      44.8      14.40    59.20
Table 81: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                      Local     Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign    Total
costs      costs                 costs      costs
IDA                        17.3       43.2       60.5       44.8       14.4      59.2
I EEC             -    I  5.8         2.2        8.0        4.1        0.6       4.7
I JAPAN                I   1.1        5.7        6.8         -         6.8       6.8
11 KFW                 u   1.4        4.9        6.3        11.8       2.6       14.4
I NETHERLANDS          I  0.8         2.6        3.4         3.2       2.1       5.3
IODA      ~            13.1           16.9      20.0         1.5       3.1       4.6
USAID                      2.4        4.6        7.0         4.7        3.8       8.5
GOK                       27.3*       3.7 .      31.0      6.3**        -        6.3
Total                      40.4       83.8      143.0       76.4       33.4      109.8
* Including US$18.8 million of taxes and duties.
** The Government has contributed in the form of taxes and exemptions as per project agreement, however
the value has not been added to the "actual".



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefitss
Worse Case (Gradual Recovery from 1997/98 Drop in Tourism) (US$)
COSTS                                ACTUAL                                                                         PROJECrE                                                                                                        TEPMINAL
92/9     93M9      94/9      95/96    9617      97/9      9&/9       99/00     00)01     01VM      0216       03/04     04i0      05166     06/7      07/0      08/0       09/10     10/11
Project Costs: Capital and Incremental  13.34    24.03    13.94    27.99     1807      1.58      10.83
Post pjvect Costs                                                                                           6.60      6.60       6.60     7.52       7.52      7.52      7.52      7.52      7.52       7.52      7.52      7.52
Terminal                                                                             ____(2.49)
Total Costs                           13.34     24.03    13.94     27.99     18.07     1.58      10.83      6.60      6.60)     6.60      7.52       7.52      7.52      7.52      7.52      7.52       7.52      7.52      7.52        (2.49)
C.nto Uai.g ShadawF.vcangeRate                                             _____________
Foreign Exhange Cost                   4.13      7.44     4.31      8.66      5.59      0.49      3.35
titlatioss (CPI)                      2.8%Y     2.7%      2.6%/    2.9%/    2.51%      1.7%/     2.1%
Foreign ComponenAdjusted for           4.01      7.04     3.98      7.77      4.89      0.42      2.82
Inflation to 1991/92 US
LocalCost                              9.21     16.59     9.63     19.33     12A48     1.09       7.49
Local nfatLon                         14.6%     23.4%    23.2%     10.0%     12.1%     13.1%     9.1% 
Local Cst A4usted for nflationto       8.04     11.74     5.53     10.10     5.81      0.45       2.83
1991/92 USII                                                                        I         II                                                                      II
L.oal Consponent after Standard        8.74     12.76     6.01     10.97     6.32      0.49   13.07
ConverionII
TOTAL                                 12.75     19.80     9.99     18.74     11.21     0.1        5.89      7.89      7.89      7.89      7.89       7.89   17.89   17.89          7.89      7.89       7.8       7.89      7.89        (2.64)
BENEFITS                             ACTUAL                                                               PROJECTED                                                                                                                  TERMINAL
With Proqjedt                         92f93     93194    94/95     95/96    96197      97/98     9803      99/00     00/01      01/0      02/03     03/04     04/05    0Os0       06107     07/0       08/09     09/10     10/11
NumberofTourrsts                       1.11      1.24     1.12      1.18      1.08     0.63       0.65      0.67      0.69      0.71       0.71      0.71      0.71      0.71      0.7       0.71       0.71      0.71      0.71         0.71
N.tlnrrnnaTouit Recets                 7.70     16.10     8.34     12.47      5.83    (21.20)   (20.04)   (18.84)   (17.61)   (16.34)   (16.34)   (16.34)   (16.34)   (16.34)   (16.34)   (1634)   (16.34)   (16.34)   (16.34)          (16.34)
RLevenue from Impxoved Wrldhife        3.20     9.59      10.76    13.69     12.44     7.33       7.55      7.78      8.01      8.25       8.25      8.25      8.25      8.25      8.25      8.25       8.25      8.25      8.25         8.25
Viewinig                                                                    _  _  __                                    _  _   _  _  __               _  __                                                                             _  _
Subtotal                              10.90     25.69    19.10     26.16     18.26    (13.88)   (12.49)   (11.07)    (9.60)    (8.09)    (8.09)    (8.09)    (8.09)    (8.09)    (8.09)    (8.09)    (8.09)    (8.09)    (8.09)         (8.09)
Wilhout Projei___                                                                                                                                                                  __                                                ____
Ntamberoffoussits                      1.111    1.24      1.11      1.16    1 104  10.63          063       0.65      0.67      0.60       0.70      0.70      0.70      0.70      0.70      0.70       0.70      0.70      0.70         0.70
NetlIncremnernlalToist Receipts        7.70..   16.10  17.66       1.02    3.85   1(22.37)   (21.24)   (20.08)   (18.88)   (17.65)   (17.2l)   (17.21)   (17.21)   (17.21)   (17.21)   (17.21)   (17.21)   (17.21)   (17.21)            (17.21)
________________________  ~92/3  T  39           4(9      9%        99       97/9       98/9    99100       00/01      01/02  T02/03       03/04_   04/0       05/06     06/7       07/08  -  0/0       09/10  f10/11    TERMINAL
TOTALMaztet rrs3.20                             9.9      11.4      15.14     14.41     8.49       8.75      9.01      9.28      95         .2       91          .2       91         .2       91         .2        91         .291
TOTALBDenefits after Standard       -   .9      1.2      12.44     16.46     15.66     9.23       9.51      9.79      10.09     109        .1        991        .1       991        .1       991        .1        991        91.1
Conversion   (.92)                                       _    _    _    __                _       _    __                _                           _   _    _    _   _   _        _   __                _       _   _      _   _   _    _   _
NET BENEFITS                          (95)      (.8)      24        25)      4.6       83W.I19                        22         .0       20A.3                2.3       20         .3       20        20          .3       20           25
Ecnoi rate of retumn                       12.05%
Net Pr"eat Value at 10% Discount Rate    S2&6
An Analysis of the PAWS' Economnic Costs and Benefits (ERR) is presented in Appendix C, Page 63.                                                                                                                                       33



- 34 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section    Covenant Present Original   Revised        Description of Covenant       Comments
Type      Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
DCA         3.01(b)   03         C                               GOKpass proceeds of Credit to
KWS as equity
3.02      04        CP                              GOK budgetary allocation for
KWS in its recurrent budget
3.05      l1        NC      06.30.92                GOK to ensure costs of
improving Park access roads
included in MPW budget
estimated and forward budget for
FY 92/93 and 93/94
6.01(b)   05        C       06.30.92                Annual Work Program for FY
92/93
6.01(c)    05, 11   C                               KWS implement staff reduction
plan
Grant       3.04(a)    09,11    C        12.31.94               Mid-term review
3.05      09, 11    C                               KWS Annual Progress Report
3.07      05, 11    C       6.30.92                 KWS appoint donor coordination
secretariats
3.08      09,11    C                                KWS to establish and maintain
acceptable core management team
3.09      05, 11    CP      6.30.92                 KWS carry out salary/incentives
review and implement
recommendations
4.01(b)(i) 01, 11    C                              Financial records and accounts
audited by independent
commercial auditor
4.02(a)    09, 11    CP     3.31.93                 KWS furnish Annual Corporate
Plan
4.03      01, 11    CD      6.30.92                 KWS implement commercial
accounting system
4.04(a)    10, 11   C       6.30.92                 KWS carry out tourist tariff study
4.05      10, 11    C       7.1.93                  KWS to institute revenue sharing  Program
with communities              discontinued due to
KWS financial crisis.
4.06      10,11     C       6.30.92                 KWS establish and maintain
Wildlife Development Facility for
Communities
Covenant types:                                                                       Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                           8. = Indigenous people
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from   9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  C = covenant complied with
beneficiaries                               10. = Project implementation not covered   CD = complied with after
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds        by categories 1-9                   delay
4. = Counterpart funding                       11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary   CP = complied with partially
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation     NC = not complied with
agency                                      12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                      regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                  13. =Other



- 35 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title     IDescribe and commenton lack of compliance
No deviation from applicable Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned             Revised                Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks     US$    Weeks    US$            Weeks         US$
Preparation to Appraisal  NA        NA        NA        NA        103.8        147.0
Appraisal                  NA       NA        NA        NA         33.9         79.3
Negotiations thmugh        NA       NA        NA        NA         13.4         31.9
Board approval
Supervision              80.5      178.2    115.7    242.7        227.5        51  .9
Completion                 9.5      16.5       9.5     16.5        13.0  .      22.5
Total             90.0      194.7    125.2    259.2       391.6        792.6
NA - Not Available (not recorded in FACT)



- 36 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfonnance Rating2
Stage of project    Month/    No. of   Days in  Specialization'  Implem.  Development   Types of
cycle          Year    Persons    Field                        Status    Objectives    Problems3
Identification      11-12/90      4          19    EC, IS
Appraisal           6/91          7         23    EC, E
Supervision 1      .2-3/93        6         24    EC, E, D, FI, PR      2            1         CF
Portfolio Update    6/93                           EC, E, D, Fl, PR     2            1         CF
Supervision 2       10/93         4         17    EC, D, PR, E          2            1         CF
Supervision 3       6/94          5         24    EC, D, PR, FL         S            S         PM
Portfolio Update    9/94                                                S            S         PM
Supervision 4       1-2/95        6         19    EC, Fl, D, A,         S            S         FC, PM
PR
Supervision S (id   1-2/96        7         18    EC, EN, EE, IS,       S            S         FC, PM
Term Review)                                       PR, D
Supervision 6       10-11/96      5         11    IS, S, EC, PR,       HS            S         FC, PM
FI
Supervision 7       11/97         4         11    EC, ES, PR, FI        S            S         FC, PM
Portfolio Update    9/98                                                S            U         FC, PM
Supervision 8       11/98         3         21    ES, EC                S            S         FC, PM
Portfolio Update    6/99                                                S            S         FC, PM
Completion Report  10/99          6                ES, EC, PR, IS,
Fl, S
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:      2 - Key to Performance Ratings:      3 - Key to Types of Problems:
A = Anthropologist                        I = Problem free                      CF = Counterpart Funds;
D = Disbursement Specialist;             2= Moderate problems                   FC = Financial Covenants;
E = Engineer,                            S = Satisfactory;                      PM = Project Management;
EC = Ecologist;                          U = Unsatisfactory;                    LC = Legal Covenants;
EE = Environmental Economist;            HS = Highly Satisfactory;              PR - Procurement
ES = Environmental Specialist;          IHU= Highly Unsatisfactory;
Fl = Financial Analyst;                  NR = Not Rated
IS = Institutional Specialist;
PR = Procurement Specialist;
S - Sociologist



- 37 -
APPENDIX A
KENYA
Protected Areas and Wildlife Project (PAWS)
Mission to Prepare the
Implementation Completion Report
Aide Memoire
October 15, 1999
Introduction
1.    Between September 28 and October 13, 1999 a World Bank team prepared the-
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Protected Areas and Wildlife Service Project
(PAWS). The mission was comprised of Claudia Alderman (co-team leader, environment
operations officer), Richard Kaguamba (co-team leader, environment specialist), Larry Lechner
(consultant, protected area management specialist), Hans Olsen (consultant, institutional
specialist), Karen Sondergaard (consultant, financial management specialist) and Dahir Warsame
(procurement specialist). Mr. Andreas Holtkotte, Mr. Georg Kraft and Ms. Yasmin Tawfik, also.
joined the ICR team on behalf of the KfW. The main objective of this mission was to prepare a
first draft of the ICR as per Bank guidelines. During the mission the team visited the Makowe
Outpost, Malindi and Watamu Marine Parks, Nairobi, Aberdares, Amboseli, Hell's Gate, Mt.
Kenya, Tsavo West and Tsavo East National Parks, the Shimba Hills National Reserve, the KWS
Training Institute, the Kimana Nature Sanctuary, and the Mamelok dispensary.
2.    The ICR team wishes to thank all those who facilitated the work of the team, in particular
Dr. N. Rotich, Mr. J. M. Kioko, and the staff of Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS). A list of the
people with whom the mission met can be found in Annex 1.
Objectives of the ICR and respective responsibilities for its preparation
3.    As was discussed during the pre-ICR mission of January-February, 1999, it is the policy
of the World Bank to evaluate, upon completion, all the projects it finances. The ICR is a
milestone in the project cycle, marking the transition from implementation to project's future
operation. It assesses primarily: (a) the degree of achievement of project objectives;
(b) prospects for the project's sustainability; (c) Bank and borrower performance; (d) project
outcome; and (e) the plan for the project's future operation. The ICR provides the data and
analysis to substantiate these assessments and also identifies the lessons learned from
implementation.
4.    KWS, as the implementing body of the PAWS project, is responsible for preparing and
making available to the Bank its own evaluation report on the project's execution and initial
operation, cost and benefits, the Bank's and borrower's perforrnance of their respective
obligations under the Credit Agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the credit were



- 38 -
achieved. A summary of this report (or the full report if it is ten pages or less) is annexed
unedited to the ICR. As per the Credit Agreement, KWS is also responsible for assisting the
Bank in ICR preparation.
5.    During the earlier mission in January-February, 1999, the Bank's team discussed with
KWS the objectives of the ICR, and prepared a list of the data needed to carry out a systematic
evaluation of the project on the basis of the performance indicators (see Aide Memoire dated
February 6 1999). Unfortunately, by the start of the ICR mission the data requested during the
pre-ICR mission was not ready. Thus, the effectiveness of the ICR's team in carrying out the
analysis was hampered by having to spend a substantial proportion of the available mission time
collecting the needed information. By the end of the mission, KWS provided the ICR team with
a draft of their contribution to the ICR.
Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
6.    The Bank and KfW staff reiterated to KWS the importance of preparing a Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) detailing the arrangements and strategies for ensuring the
sustainability of the project's investment. In fact, lack of sustainability will detract greatly from
the project's very real achievements. In this sense, the final evaluation of the outcome of the
project will depend, in great part, on the existence of a defined strategy for long-term
sustainability. KWS informed the ICR team that it is in the process of preparing the Project
Implementation Plan, which will be furnished to the Bank and KfW by November 30 1999.
Project Objectives and Indicators of Outcome/Impact
7.    The PAWS project objectives as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of January
20, 1992 are as follows:
The main objectives are to halt the decline of the country's wildlife and its system of
national parks and reserves and to develop a sound foundation for environmentally
sustainable wildlife-based tourism. The project would also help develop a
comprehensive policy framework for a second-phase project in the sector. The strategies
for achieving these objectives include:
a) strengthening KWS's management capacity, research and planning capacity,
organization structure, and staff skills;
b) improving KWS's financial position by assuring its access to tourism receipts from
parks and reserves and by providing support through the establishment of a
conservation endowment fund;
c) supporting investments to develop infrastructure, such as roads and tourist facilities,
in currently popular parks and in other parks and reserves with tourism potential;
d) providing a stake for communities living in wildlife areas to promote project
objectives;
e) improving public education and visitor awareness of conservation issues; and



- 39 -
f) analyzing and formulating policies relating to land use, tourism development, and the
roles of the private sector and KWS as consistent with GOK's parastatal reform
program.
8.      The SAR also provides a set of Indicators of Project Performance. These indicators,
however, do not allow for a strategic evaluation of project impact, nor of project execution.
Specifically, the indicators as stated are incomplete in that they do not address all aspects of the
project objectives and individual components, nor do they provide targets of perfortnance. In
1997, in recognition that it was essential to develop performance indicators that better capture
the level of achievement of a project's development objectives, the Bank mandated that all
project supervision teams retrofit each project with performance indicators more closely linked
to its development objectives. As a result, the PAWS objectives and their respective
performance indicators were re-articulated as follows:
INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPACT BY
DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
Development Objective                 Indicator of outcome/impact
1. Haltreverse decline of Kenya's     Stable/recovering population densities of key wildlife species: (i) inside
wildlife populations                  parks/reserves; (ii) in wildlife areas outside parks/reserves.
2. Halt/reverse decline of Kenya's    Biodiversity/ecosystem quality within parks and reserves maintained/
National Parks and reserves as:       improved.
(i) natural ecosystems; and         Visitor infrastructure rehabilitated/developed/expanded (KWS and private
(ii) tourist attractions            sector).
Visitor security improved and maintained; increase in visitor numbers/days.
3. Establish sound basis for wildlife  KWS revenues increase and costs decrease -- ultimately eliminate operating
conservation and environmentally      deficit for core activities (undertaking additional activities only as incremental
sustainable wildlife-based tourism    funding is available).
through institutional strengthening of  KWS' organizational structure, management systems & "institutional culture"
KWS vis avis             transformed from a gov. bureaucracy to a business-like entexprise (specific
(i) fmancial sustainability;         indicators include: Corporate/Business Plans, activity- based budgeting,
..i) business.hke operation;         fnancial and management informnation systems and reporting, performance-
(nl) business-like operation;         based human resource management, increasingly competitive salary structure).
(iii) knowledge-based park/area       Area/park planning and implementation process in place, supported by
planning and management; and          management-oriented research.
(iv) env. Impact assessment capacity to    ELA policy and procedures in place.
ensure envirornental soundness of all
development within parks and reserves
4. Promote wildlife conservation in   Increase in number of environmentally/financially/socially sound local
critical areas outside PAS by increasing    enterprises.
the benefits local communities receive
from wildlife and by reducing         Community action plans developed, KWS-community contracts signed, project
human/wildlife conflict through:      implemented.
(i) development of sustainable wildEfe-   Fences built and maintained.
related enterprises;                  Effective Problem Animal Management Program in place.
(ii) revenue benefit sharing program;  Improved attitudes towards wildlife among communities near parks/reserves
(iii) reduction of negative impacts (e.g.    and in key wildlife areas reflected in behaviors (e.g.) reduced poaching,
crop and livestock raiding);          encroachment and land transformation) and political processes.
(iv) education and awareness raising.



- 40 -
Evaluation framework
9.    To the degree possible, the ICR team used the indicators listed above as a basis to
measure achievement of the project's objectives. The team, however, is cognizant of the fact
that some of the data is not available, of questionable quality, or too difficult/expensive to obtain.
Moreover, the lack of baseline data, appropriate indicators and adequate means of verification
also limits the extent to which detailed evaluation of each project component is or will be
possible. Thus, many aspects of the project could not be systematically evaluated, and the team
had to rely on secondary sources of information such as desk reviews of documents, field visits
and personal interviews. Table 5 of the draft ICR report contains a summary of the finding of
the mission on the basis if the indicators listed above.
10.   In addition to using the indicators of project impact, the ICR team evaluated the
implementation of the project on the basis of Indicators of Project Operation. Table 6 of the
draft ICR report contains a summary of these findings. Finally, the ICR evaluation is also based
on the findings of several evaluation reports for specific components prepared by other PWAS
donors, and the report titled "Review of Conservation Impacts of the PAWS Project" (dated July
14, 1998), prepared by TAESCO Consultants on behalf of the World Bank.
11.   The draftICR reflects work in progress and will be revised on the basis of further
information and analysis. The views expressed at this point reflect the opinions of the ICR team
and not necessarily those of World Bank or KfW management. Once the required intemal
review and comment process within the Bank has taken place, a revised draft ICR will be sent to
the borrower and co-financiers for comment by December 1, 1999. As per Bank guidelines, the
fmal ICR should be transmitted to the borrower, implementing agencies and co-financiers within
six months of project closing, in this case by no later than December 30, 1999.
Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned
12.   A summary of the main findings of the mission is found below.
ASSESSMENT OF OBJECTIVES
13.   The original project objectives were appropriate given the crisis situation in the wildlife
and tourism sectors, and the high level of govemment and donor commitment to the project. The
objective of transforming KWS into a business-like organization was appropriate, but
realistically it probably could not be achieved in this short a period of time. The objective to
improve KWS's financial position was reasonable and a necessary condition to KWS's long term
institutional sustainability. This is not synonymous, however, with achieving fullfinancial
sustainability. In this regard, the SAR is internally inconsistent. In one place it recognizes that
KWS is not expected to be fully self-financing in the near or medium term because of the nature
of its operations. Yet, the SAR also states that KWS will seek Government subvention for the
next three years, and that it would set up a Wildlife Conservation Fund with a steady source of
funding. The corollary is that by the end of three years KWS would have been able to cover all
its costs with its own-generated funds or those in the Trust Fund. This was overly optimistic,
particularly as the projections of future revenue were too ambitious, as was the premise that



- 41 -
funds for a Trust Fund, large enough to cover substantial operating and recurrent costs, would be
readily obtainable.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Summary
14.   The PAWS program has marginally achieved its overall objectives. Virtually everyone
associated with the program agrees that in the absence of the project the conservation situation
would be far worse, and that PAWS has been a tremendous contributor to conservation in Kenya.
While fully recognizing the importance of PAWS to both the wildlife and tourism sectors, it is
clear, however, that the project did not realize its full potential.
15.   The principal accomplishment of PAWS is that, overall, wildlife management and park
management have substantially improved. Visitor security both within and near protected areas
has greatly improved and a well equipped Wildlife Protection Force was established. KWS has
achieved stature and recognition both nationally and internationally. The equipment and
infrastructure made available through the project have enhanced KWS operational capabilities
and boosted the morale of its staff, especially of those stationed in the field. KWS's work with
communities is helping change the organization's image from one of "police" to one of
"partner". While it is too early to fully assess their conservation impact, there are several
projects underway designed to create opportunities for communities to benefit from conservation
and sustainable management of wildlife and natural resources.
16.   However, PAWS achievements have fallen short in several areas. For example, one of
PAWS key objectives was to develop a revised policy and legislative framework for wildlife
management. Thus, the failure of the GOK to bring to fruition the considerable effort spent in
reformulating the outdated Wildlife Bill represents a failure to achieve PAWS' project
objectives. Lack of effective land policy has resulted in the steady loss of essential wildlife
habitats and migratory corridors with a consequent decline of many important species outside of
protected areas. Concurrently, lack of sound policy, strategic and institutional frameworks, and
low public investment in the tourism sector threatens Kenya's competitive position and market
share, as well as KWS' ability to derive revenue from tourism, and thereby achieve a reasonable
degree of financial sustainability.
17.   Institutionally, KWS was not been strengthened to the degree expected during the project.
Despite KWS's strategy for restructuring based on the principles of regionalization and on three
main organizational goals (Biodiversity, Partnership and Tourism), the success of this
reorganization has been put in question, and both the regionalization and the three-pronged
organizational approach have been abandoned. As a result, the organization has been
substantially weakened by repeated changes in direction, as evidenced by high turn-over of staff
and lack of clear and consistent managerial guidance. The current weak financial position of
KWS indicates that the project did not succeed in building strong capacity for financial
management and planning.
18.   The training component was also not as successful as expected in building long-term
institutional capacity. While training was partially effective in achieving its goal of enhancing



- 42 -
the overall knowledge and capacity within KWS, particularly of the lower and mid level staff,
the component could have resulted in stronger managerial skills throughout the organization.
Moreover, the impact of training was undermined by the high turnover of staff (due to both
natural attrition and to retrenchment), whereby a high proportion of trained personnel has been
lost to the organization. Furthermore, the continuity of training is in question, as training is often
one of the first activities substantially scaled down. To wit: KWS's training budget for 1999-
2000 allocates only sixty cents (USD) per staff member for the year.
19.   The impact of PAWS on improving KWS's financial position is uncertain. While
revenue did increase significantly it did not keep pace with the sharp increase in operating costs.
KWS suffered significant operating deficits over the past five years, reaching almost Ksh. 1
billion in the fiscal year 97/98. While in the past year revenue collection and expenditure control
have improved, currently KWS income (from own revenues and govemment subvention) is still
not enough to cover a reasonable level of operating costs, let alone fully carry out its mandate.
20.   The weak financial situation at this point is exemplified by the fact that staff salaries for
1998-1999 account for 90% of KWS's income. In many parks, some roads have deteriorated
severely and much of the equipment purchased under PAWS either needs to be replaced, or is
idle due to lack of fuel and spare parts. Many facilities lack furniture and accessories required to
be operational. Yet, the amount allocated in the 1999/2000 budget for infrastructure and
equipment maintenance is substantially below what is needed to do the job adequately. The lack
of a comprehensive plan in place for maintenance of infrastructure and equipment at the time of
the ICR evaluation, and the lack of a fund to finance these expenditures, puts in question the
sustainability of project achievements. On the positive side, subsequently to the ICR mission,
KWS has informed the Bank that it has embarked on a major exercise to evaluate its equipment
and infrastructure in order to determine the level needed to sustain optimal operations. KWS is
also developing Maintenance Plans, which it expects to discuss in an Strategic Planning
Workshop scheduled for January 2000.
21.   Much of the infrastructure developed by PAWS brought about positive benefits in terms
of wildlife protection and, to a lesser degree, tourism in protected areas. The transportation
systems, including air support and roadways has been critical in managing protected area wildlife
populations, enforcing poaching restrictions and providing access for both KWS personnel and
tourists. Fencing projects have reduced community/wildlife conflicts in many areas. The
Nairobi headquarters provides centralized facilities and the basis for more efficient operation.
Greatly improved housing and ranger accommodations make field support and patrol operations
viable. KWS morale is significantly higher and can be directly linked to better facilities,
uniforms, equipment and vehicles provided under PAWS. However, the Civil Works component
had problems in its implementation. As a result, some of the infrastructure seems to be of
limited usefulness, was over-built, or could have been built at a lower cost.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   The PAWS project strategy devoted virtually all project resources to the development of
KWS. Hence, if KWS does not succeed in the long term as an effective institution, the impact of
the project becomes questionable. KWS has struggled throughout the implementation of PAWS
to make effective use of project resources. In the end, institutional instability and failure to



- 43 -
formulate an enduring strategic vision have limited KWS' ability to protect and manage Kenya's
wildlife. Chronic financial problems, both in terms of revenues and management, have
exacerbated the situation. In particular, failure to consider the recurrent operation and
maintenance cost implications for the infrastructure and equipment acquired under the project
may undermine project achievements to date. The sum of KWS's own revenues and allocations
from the central Government budget seem, at this point, inadequate to enable KWS to finance
current operations and maintenance needs. Some of the equipment procured under PAWS is
inoperable due to lack of relatively minor spare parts, e.g. tires for transport equipment. Signs of
deterioration are evident in some buildings constructed under the project. While some of the
institutional capacity strengthened under PAWS will endure, and some of the infrastructure and
equipment will still be useful for years to come, unless these problems are addressed through
better financial planning, financial constraints will render the long-term impacts of the project
unsustainable. On a positive note, KWS has informed the Bank that it has embarked on a major
exercise to evaluate its equipment and infrastructure in order to determine the level needed to
sustain optimal operations and is developing maintenance plans
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
23.   The outcome of the project is considered unsatisfactory. This rating is mainly based on
the uncertain sustainability of project gains at the time of the ICR. The maintenance of the assets
and resources provided by the project are threatened by KWS's deteriorating financial position
and related management weaknesses, and by shortcomings in the policy framework and public
investment program relating to the wildlife and tourism sector. If KWS' current efforts to
address these problems are successful, the outlook for sustainability will improve
FUTURE OPERATION
24.   As the ICR team has not yet received the Project Implementation Plan detailing the
arrangements and strategies for ensuring the sustainability of the project's investment, it is very
difficult to evaluate the prospects for future operation. However, expenditure and revenue trends
raise a series of concerns regarding the ability of the institution to fully meet its mandate and
obligations given the level of income it is likely to receive. In particular, KWS's heavy reliance
on revenues from tourism to cover its operating costs makes it particularly vutnerable as
fluctuations of tourism levels, a factor mostly outside its control. Lack of provisions (and
prospects for having the resources needed), for maintaining the infrastructure and equipment
provided under the project severely jeopardizes the achievements of the project, and raises
concerns for future operation.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Experience shows that it is essential to assure that appropriate policy and legislation are in
place before making major investments in a sector. Investing under the promise/ expectation
that the needed policy and legislation will be developed during project implementation seems
to rarely work.



- 44 -
* Governance issues must be addressed at the project design stage to ensure accountability and
transparency of project management and implementation.
* Complex projects, which are too large for the institutional capacity at entry, should be
implemented in phases that are closely related to existing capacity for project management
and design. Institutional capacity should be adequately strengthened before making major
investments in areas whose success is largely dependent on institutional capacity, e.g.
infrastructure development.
*  It is not advisable to rely heavily on outside technical assistance (both local and intemational
contracts) to handle implementation of project activities. Specifically, key line positions
within a government organization should not be widely filled with extemal technical
assistance professionals. This tends to depress morale of staff, and the remuneration levels
required to hire external specialists is not consistent with the long term financial viability of a
government institution. Where TA is provided, provisions should be made for the
organization to assume ownership of resulting products, and for using the added resources
and expertise to build long-tern intemal capacity.
* A training needs assessment which is clearly linked to other components (such as
retrenchment or institutional reorganization), must be conducted before investing in human
resources development.
*  Investment in long-term training, both national and intemational, is not a viable and
sustainable capacity building strategy. Experience shows that too many trained staff
members seek other employment upon completion of training, particularly if the institution to
which they are returning does not offer competitive compensation.
*  Where there is weak institutional capacity to manage complex civil works activities, project
design should ensure that civil works come on-line gradually, are in line with clearly
articulated conservation priorities, and the number and scale of the procurement and services
packages allow for proper supervision given existing human resource constraints.
* Employing several independently-acting Consultants to implement Civil Works components
may lead to lack of standardization of design, impedes supervision, and may increase costs.
Moreover, strict reporting requirements for Civil Works Consultants must be developed
before project implementation.
* Project activities must be developed within a logical planning framework that clearly links
management objectives with the activities, articulates expected targets, includes a realistic
chronological order for implementation and analyzes the investments in terms of both the
immediate benefits and the long-term recurrent-costs implications.
* Area management plans, policy statements establishing conservation objectives,
Environmental Impact Assessments, and participatory conservation planning should be
mandated prerequisites to large infrastructure development in protected areas.



- 45 -
Programs whose objectives are recognized and valued by a majority stakeholders, or those
which mesh most closely to existing institutional culture are the ones most likely to succeed.
Moreover, project components such as planning will be successful only if there is
institutional recognition of their value.
* Project design and appraisal must give adequate consideration to the recurrent cost
implications of maintaining the infrastructure and equipment acquired under the project.
Lack of maintenance provisions and of financial resources allocated for this purpose can
severely jeopardize project achievements.
• Careful consideration must be given during preparation and appraisal to monitoring and
evaluation indicators and arrangements. Lack of baseline data and appropriate indicators
(directly related to project objectives), and adequate means of verification will limit the
extent to which is possible to evaluate project impact.
* Mechanism which facilitate Donor coordination, improve information transfer, and allow for
concerted action must be in place.
Agreements
25.   A summary of agreements reached is found below:
Agreement                                  Date
1. KWS will provide the Bank with a draft of the PAWS's    By November 30, 1999
PIP.
2. The Bank will forward the draft of the ICR to the GOK,    By December 1, 1999
KWS and co-financiers for comment.
3. The Bank will forward the final ICR to the GOK, KWS    By December 30, 1999
and co-financiers.



- 46 -
Annex 1
List of people with whom the mission met
A. O. Bashir                      KWS
Abraham Ogle                      KWS Airnving, Chief Pilot
Alan Bombusch                     USAID
Ali A. Kaka                       KWS, Regional Assistant Director, Parks & Reserves
Anderson Kojo                     KWS, Wetlands Program
Bea Coolman                      Netherlands Government
Ben Zech                         Netherlands Government
Benjamin Kauu                    Asst. Director Coast Region
Benson Okita                      KWS, Rhino Programn
Bernard Kaaria                    KWS, Planning/EIA
David G Gichuki                  KWS. Project Accountant
David K Njoroge                   KWS, Procurement & Supplies Manager
Dennis Weller,                    USAID
Dominic Antoine                  KWS! Director, Airwing
Donald E. J. R. Mwakoyo          Senior Warden, Lamu
Elizabeth Amayo                   KWS, Training & Development Manager
Francis Mugo                      KWS, Financial Controller
G. M. Amboga                      Warden, Shimba Hills
Giacomo Durazzo                   European Union
Gideon Gathaara                   KWS, Forestry
Gitonga Runo                      KWS, Procurement Officer
Godfrey Masimde                   Warden
Godfrey Wakaba                    Warden, Watamu Marine Park
Hasam Mohamed                    Alternate Rep, (Treasury) the KWS Board of Directors
J M Kioko                        KWS, Acting Director
J M Wachira                       KWS, Project Accountant
J. P. Ngimor                      Director, Loitokitok Community Dispensary
James Isiche                      Assistant Director. Tsavo West N. P.
James Ndirangu                    USAID. Natural Resources Advisor
Joachim Kagiri                    KWS, Partnership Programme
Joel B Munyori                    KWS, Quantity Surveyor
John K. Voya                      KWS Kwale Partnership Officer
John 0 Odeny                      KWS, Kwale Area Tourism Otficer
Kamau Njendu                      Consultant, Coast Package
Kip Keyo                          Warden, Amvoseli N. P.
Kithinji Chokerah                KWS, Corporate Planning
Margaret Ndungu                  KWS, Monitoring and Evaluation
Mark Stanley-Price               Board of Directors, KWS
Mark Suge                         KWS, Deputy Director Human Resource & Administration
Muthoni Thiong'o                  KWS, Donor Liaison Officer
N. Rotich                         KWS, Director
Nelson Agina                      KWS, Senior Project Accountant
P. Mutage                         KWS, Revenue Acct.
Patrick Mwiti                    Head, Legal Services
Patrick Omondi                   KWS, Senior Specialist, elephants
Paul Gathitu Masela              KWS, Warden. Aberdares N.P.
Peter Lekeren                    Company Commander, Lamu
Philip Wandera                   Wildlife Utilization Co-ordinator
Rachael Njeri Lofty              KWS, Tourism Development Management
Richard Leakey                   GOK, Office of the President
Robert Mutegi Njue                Warden, Watamu Marine Park
Sam Weni                          KWS, Head of Tourism Studies
Stephen Manegene                  KWS, Planning, Wetlands Program
Steve Njumbi                      KWS, Planning/EIA
William Ole Kipelu               World Vision, Loitokitok
Zakaria Khalid                    KWS Airwing, Chief Mechanic



- 47 -
APPENDIX B
Kenya Wildlife Service's ICR
(Prepared by KWS and Abridged by the Bank ICR Team)
1.0   Statement / Evaluation of Objectives
The PAWS project was initiated in July 1992 as a major 5-year investment program aimed at
halting the decline in the Wildlife sector and revitalizing its growth and development. The
project was designed as a first phase of a ten-year wildlife sector development program based on
a comprehensive wildlife policy and strategy -- the 1991-1996 Policy Framework and Investment
Program. Eight Donors agreed to fund the US$143.1 million project with IDA pledging
US$60.5, USAID -US$7.0, JICA -US$6.8, EU -US$8.0, The Netherlands -US$3.4,
ODA -US$20, KFW -US$6.3, and Government of Kenya -US$3 1. 1.
The main project objectives were divided in to six components (see Table 1 below). The aims
were to:-
* halt the precipitous decline of the country's wildlife and its system of Parks and Reserves;
* develop a sound foundation for environmentally sustainable wildlife based tourism; and,
* develop a comprehensive framework for a second Phase Project in the sector.
The strategies for achieving these objectives included:
- strengthening KWS's management, research and planning capacity, organisation structure
and staff skills;
- improving KWS financial position by assuring its access to tourism receipts from parks and
reserves and by providing support through the establishment of an endowment fund;
* supporting investments to develop infrastructure, such as roads and tourism facilities, in
currently popular parks and in other parks and reserves with tourism potential;
* providing stake for communities living in wildlife dispersal areas to promote project
objectives;
* improving public education and visitor awareness of conservation issues, and,
*  analyzing and formulating policies relating to land use, tourism development, and the role of
private sector and KWS as consistent with GoK's parastatal reform program.
KWS ICR Abridged version, January 2000



- 48 -
Table 1: Project Cost by Component
Component                        Cost in Million Dollars
1.  Institutional capacity Development:- HQ Strengthening and       29.0
Training
2.  Park Infrastructure                                             50.6
3   Wildlife Service:- Community Wildlife Program, Wildlife         26.0
Education, -Policy & Planning, and Veterinary Service
4.  Scientific Services: -Research & Monitoring Program, Rhino       9.7
Program, Elephant Program, Forest Conservation Program,
Wetland Program, Tana GEF*
5.  Reserve Development                                              2.5
6.  Wildlife Protection & Tourist Security Program                   6.3
7.  Taxes and Contingencies                                         16.3
* Removedfrom PA WSproject                 TOTAL               141.1
1.1   Achievement of Objectives
As a swift intervention program, the Is' phase of the proposed sub-sector wide investment
enabled KWS to respond to the wildlife sector's threats and weaknesses identified at appraisal
stage of the project. Within the project period, the organization was able to:
(a)   Step-up the national conservation efforts and prevent further loss of the dwindling
endangered species by reducing poaching and mobilising community support.
(b)   Restore visitors' confidence and re-assure the nation of future income from tourism by
eradicating immediate threats to the tourism sector by improving security in the parks and
refurbishing the infrastructures.
(c)   Prepare a policy proposal and bill for legislation aimed at a comprehensive national land
use policy, formulate co-ordinating organs and instruments to avoid conflicting inter-
sector policies.
KWS ICR Abridged version, January 2000



Table 2: Accomplishment by Component
Objective                  Major Activities                         Outputs                                    |Achievements
Institutional Capacity Development
Upgrading and development   -Training of staff in general and project  -Regional management skills conducted in 1998   Intemal capacity has been generated over the
of KWS personnel skills     management, supervision & tinance       (68 out of 78 participants still with Service)  project period minimising the need for extemal
-93 other courses and seminars undertaken with    support.
total revenue of 14 million Ksh.
(fl/l details in ihe complete KWS IC(R)
Management strengthening    Hiring of technical assistance staff and  Technical assistance provided (55 TAs)     Objective on capacity building not fully realised.
foreign consultants
Set up of Commnercial Department        Through funding by DFID, Commercial Manager  The Commercial Department was set up, materials
was recruited to set up Commercial Department   and equipment acquired
Procurement of vehicles, equipment,     -Vehicles, equipment and construction of HQs  Better working environment and irnproved
communication equipment. construction of'  building completed                        management
new HQs
Enhance KWS financial       -Financial systems improvement          -Sun accounting system implemented           Improvement in expenditure control and revenue
management systems          -Improvement in budgeting, planning and  -budgetary and planning guidelines produced  collection
procurement procedures and processes    -Procurement ard linanci manuals in place.
-Improvement in revenue collection systems
to ensure KWS access to tourism receipts
Achieve ftnancial sell'     Diversification and development of tourism   -Prospectus of visitor information and field  Although the revenues more than tripled diuing the
sustainability             activities.                              centres.                                     project period, financial self-sustainability was not
-Carryout feasibility studies and prospectuses -Prospectus on tourism site facilities e.g. new  achieved due:
on tourism facilities development       circuits, bandas, etc                        -expenditures more than tripled due to change of
. . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~focu,s, inadequate expenditure controls and overly
-Carryout tourism pricing, policy and   -Report on tourism policy and development study  costly establishment
development study                                                                    csl  salsmn
-Undertakelopmarketi  of KWS tourism    -Revision of tariffs and marketing strategies  -decline of tourism due to insecurity and
-Undertake marketing ol'KWS tourism                                                  deterioration of the infrastructure.
-However, control measures put in place and
increase in tourism is raising optimism towards a
break-even position
Establishment of Conservation Endowment   Policy to establish trust fund in place    KWS financial position remains weak
Fund
KWS ICR Abridged Version, January 2000                                                                                                                     49



Objective                   Major Activities                         Outputs                                       Achievements
Park and Reserve Infrastructure Development
Improvement and             -Rehabilitation and reconstruction of roads in  Although the scope of work was reduced, all  Impact substantial
development of existing and    national parks and reserves           contracts awarded were executed (fill details in
new infrastructure                        ...... ........ the compleie KWS ICP)                                   -Enhanced security operations due to accessibility
-Rehabilitation and construction of buildings                                        of the parks.
in national parks and reserves including  -vehicles, plant and equipment procured     -Increased visitor satisfaction within parks and
offices, guard camps and staff houses                                                reserves due to improved accessibf ily to tourist
-Acquisition of vehicles, plant and equipment                                         circuits. Total road network rehabilitated 7,365
km. Motorable roads 4,768 km.
(full details in the complele KWS ICR)
-Staff morale boosted by improved housing
Strengthening KWS' capacity  -Construction and upgrading of maintenance  Acquisition of Vehicles, plant and equipment  Security operations enhanced.
in carrying out routine     facilities.                              -Routine maintenance of roads
maintenance of roads... Runmataceorad
-Construction and rehabilitation of
maintenance work-shops
Improving the functioning of   -Acquisition of motor boats, radio    All projects undertaken were completed.       Substantial: Environmental degradation halted
marine parks                equipment, vehicles, staff houses and                                                  through enhanced surveillance and education
construction of marine park headquarters                                              program.
Marine HQs constructed, equipment provided and
operation expenses catered for
Scientific Services
Elephant Program
Strengthening project co-   -Collaboration with other inslitutions   -Establishment of elephant databank,          -Collaborations in place with local universities,
ordination, management and               . .   .   .                      .    .          .  .     .               NGOs, Government department, Private
evaluation systers.         -Short term traing of staff (local and   -acquire vehicles and scientfic equipment,    Landowners and county councils.
abroad)
-Participation in forums that promote                                                 -database and inventory reports
elephant conseTvation                                                                 -Office and field equipment acquired
(full details in the complete KWS ICR)
KWS ICR Abridged Version, January 2000                                                                                                                       50



Objective                  Major Activities                       Outputs                                     Achievements
Increasing biodiversity within  -Trials on new elephant management  -Appropriate management technologies, identified  -Elephant translocations carried out
elephant ranges.           technologies                           -Participation in forums promoting elephant  -Establishment of watering points in Amboseli and
-Establishment and maintenance of elephant  conservation                          inventory completed for Tsavo
enclosures                             -research reports                          -Establishment of transects to monitor elephant
-Maintenance of elephant databank                                                 habitat interactions
-research and monitoring
Fonnulation/ review of     Prepare a draft elephant management policy   Policy drdft                          Dralt policy in progress
biodiversity conservation
policy
Rhino Program
Management and building up  -Development of a management and a    -Developed a 5-year Rhino Conservation and  -60 Rhinos translocated in and out of main KWS
of the Rhino population    conservation plan for the black Rhino  Management Plan                             sanctuaries
-Ecological monitoring in all the Rhino  -Almost complete Rhino monitoring system in    -No Rhino poached in the parks
sanctuaries                            place                                      4% annual growth of Rhino population
-Conduct regular census                -Regular census conducted                   -Data bank set up
(full details in the complete KWS ICR)
Wetlands Program
Develop a National wetlands   -Conduct consultative workshops.     Wetlands policy Paper produced.            -workshops held
policy.                    -Draft wetlands policy.                                                            -Draft Wetlands Policy Paper produced.
-Conduct awareness for policy acceptance
and adoption.
- Undertake wetlands Research studies.  Recommendation and reports produced.      Drafl and final reports already produced
Develop a wetlands database   Undertake Inventory of Wetlands     Wetlands inventory undertaken in all-important    More than 300 wetland sites have been inventoried
and information system.                                           wetlands in the country including - coastal/marine  throughout the country. though there are more sites
wellands, terrestrial wetlands etc.        to be covered
Undertake Wetlands Monitoring          Wetland monitoring conducted in all the major    More than 20 sites have been monitored regularly
and important wetlands throughout the country    and report produced.
including marine/coastal as well as terrestrial  More sites need to be included in the scheme
wetlands.
KWS ICR Abridgec! Version, January 2000                                                                                                               51



Objective                    Major Activities                          Outputs                                        Achievements
Develop Wetlands Database                 Wetlands database at KWS HQ. And at coast      -Database establisbed from more than 300 sites.
developed                                     -acquired hardware/soil wares
-Personnel trained in data collection and database
development.
I Indernake Wetlands         -Identil'y needs, develop and implement   Awareness conducted in more than 20 sites at   - Trained teachers, produced wetland handbook
Education and Awareness.     education awareness progrdms Ior various  coast and terrestrial wetlands.                and reached more than 20.000 community
target groups in all major and important                                                 members
wetlands in the country
Undertake Integrated Planning  Produce inlegrated management plans lor all  Inlegrated management plans               -Stakeholders identified in all wetland sites and
ol' important wellands       Marine prolected areas and important                                                     plans produced by panicipatory approach.
terrestrial wetlands
Provide infrastructure to    Identify infrastructure needs for MEPAs and    -Vehicles and equipment provided.         -acquired vehicles and equipment.
support wetlands conservation  other imporiant wetlands in the country  -Constructed residential and onlice hlock.    -Built 2 residential houses at KWSTI and one
especially the protected wetands.                                                        ollice block at-Mombasa.
-Up-graded a resource centre and visitors centre in
Malindi
Support Training oflpersonnel  -Identifv technical needs for  etlands  -Wetlands training needs assessed              -More than 500 ofticers, ol'diverse cadres have
Ior wellands conseTvation   training at KWSTI                          -i            u   m                            been trained in various lopics on wetlands
-Training curricular. modules and malefials   conservation
-Identify training needs for on-the-job   produced
training of field otllicers/personnel                                                    -Diverse range of curricula/ modules and malerials
-Undertake actual implementation ol wetland    have been provided to tacilitate wetlands training
Identlfy collaborating institutions for   courses/ training etc.                         activities
wetlands tramining
Forest program
Incorporute wildlife aspects in  -Continuous consultations on policy and  -Policy and legislation documents reviewed with   -Policy and legislation in dranf and Forest Master
revised forest policy and    Forest Master Plan development process    AG and Forest Department (FD)                  Plan completed
legislation                  -Task Force Working Group                 -E A Region W/shop on experiences learnt       -Monthly consulatlions ongoing and field visits
-FoUou -up on review process              -Monthly consultations on forest issues and    undertaken
-Creation of.awareness                    Workshops                                      - Task force established
-Develop management guidelines for natural  -Task Force established.
forests
KWS TCR Abridged Version, January 2000                                                                                                                            52



Objective                    Major Activities                          Outputs                                        Achievements
Support training on          -Carryout training needs assessment with  -Train 5 members of staff on MSc course        -5 students placed under MSc coarses
indigenous forests           partners
-Train 60 Guards and Rangers using technical  -42 G/Rangers trained
-Carryout short and long-term training    curriculum                                     - I course on Forest research attended
courses locaUy and overseas               -21 days survey training
-Organise study tours                     -30 officers attend World Forest Congress and  trained at Kakarnega forest
-Develop joint technical trdining curriculum    Commonwea]th                             -20 Fl and KWS officers participated
for forest Guards and Rangers
-Field test Ranger curriculum
-Participate in intemational forest
conferences and training workshops
Promote inter-sectoral       -expand inter-institutional collaboration  -Incorporate National Museums of Kenya in     -NMK incorporated in MoU
integrated forest management  -organise and strengthen MoIJ            FD/KWS MoU                                     -wFrC established
Implementation                            -Industrial Forest Training College ([FTC) at  -Secretariat established and staff deployed
-Develop comprehensive integrated forest  National level
ecosystems projects drawing on PAWS       -Secretariat office and support staff recruited  -IO vehicles procured
imnplementabion experience                -Procure 14 vehicles                           -Integrated projects for Arabuko, Shimba Hills.
-Develop joint    integrated lorest managementes                                         Mt Elgon and Aberdares developed and appraised
-Devlo                                    -All forests projects individually and collectively   -2 draft Management plans (Shimba Hls and
ippraised in-consultations witr donors and    Kakamega). Joint management teams established
-3 integrated management plans                -License issued
-parties sign License
Promote forest based tourism   -Develop agreement between FD & K4WS on  -charge rates, and 12 gates and receipts     -Charge rates established and I gate constructed
I,orest-ecotourism
-8 guidebooks and 10 brochures
-Establish forest tourism Revenue collection                                             -2 guide books developed
-6 forest ecosystein toufism plans            -  ud  ok  eeoe
-Market lorest tourism
-Develop forest tourism plans
-Support development of Forest Guides
Association
KWS ICR Abridged Version, January 2000                                                                                                                            53



Objective                   Major Activities                         Outputs                                      Achievements
Promote conmunity           -Training in community conservation      -30 FD and KWS participants in tour           -12 participants attended study tours to Zimbabwe
participation in forest                                                                                            and Uganda (Bwindi forest)
conservation                -Carryout studies to support planning for  -10 reports
community involvement                    -Agroforestry being undertaken m 6 main forest   -7 reports
-Develop agroforestry in PAS buffer zone  areas                                       -Planning in place and guidelines drafted for micro
areas to create income generating activities    R itt of a        of   for T          projects
Carryout forest restoration  -Develop forest restoration program for Tana  -Restoration model developed and implemented    -Restoration research officer recruited
research                    River Primate
-Ecological and field sites surveys done
Ecological Monitoring Program
To set up Ecological        To build up an in-house KWS ecological   -Recruit and train staff                      Ecologist recruited and monitoring needs of KWS
Monitoring programmes at    monitoring team, and develop methods, links                                            identified
key paiks and reserves      and ecology research plans               -Define baseline monitoring methodologies
Full implementation of monitoring programs  -Monitoring reports                       Implementation undertaken at Nairobi, Amboseli,
at priority areas                                                                     Aberdares & Nakuru and the Tsavos.
Environmental Impact Assessment program
Development of ETA          -Training of staff to carryout ETA       -Staff trained                               -3 staff trained at professional level
Guidelines                  -Establishment of EIA unit               -Unit established and operational             -EIA unit established
-Preparation and installation of guidelines    -Drafted Guidelines                -  -ETA guidelines prepared and put in place
-40 members of staff trained at lower skills level
Conduct EIA                 -Prepare TOR and supervise studies       Undertook and supervised ElAs                 Over thirty EIAs undertaken.
-Conduct ETA's internally                                                             (full details in the complete KWS ICR)
-Review ETA's reports Projects Extemal to
KWS.
KWS ICR Abridged Version, January 2000                                                                                                                       54



Objective                | Major Activities                       Outputs                                     Achievements
Veterinary service unit
Develop a highly mobile    -Staff recruitment and training        -Staff trained                              -Staff trained in local and oversees -short and long
veterinary unit            -Construction of a veterinary center   -Capture and translocation of various annmals    term courses
-acquire equipment and other facilities  -Assist in radio collaring               hCapture and thranlocation of the elephants,
-LiaisonwithNGOs                       -Monitor diseases                          -Capture of problem animals
-Veterinary centre                         -Radio collaring of the elephants
-Monitoring and intervention in animal diseases
-Veterinary centre constructed and operational.
(full details in the complete KWS ICR)
Park and Reserve Management Planning
Establislunent of Wildlife  -Acquire vehicles, plant and equipment  -Functional Unit                         -Vehicles and equipment acquired.
Stpengthen KWS planinng    -Train staff to plan for parks and reserve  -Staff trained                         -Several staff trained in park and reserve plannig
capability                -develop planning guidelines            -Planning guidelines prepared               -Planning manual prepared
-Vehicles and equipment acquired           -Annual work plans guidelines prepared and
installed
Identify areas of biodiversity   - Involve county councils in Identifying areas -reserves identified for degazettment and inclusion -More than 2 reserves including Kitui South and
for conservation           of biodiversity for conservation       in protected areas system                   Mwea have been identified gazetted and MoU's
-Draft MoUs with other partner agencies                                           established between KWS and county councils
Prepare integrated        -develop system plans                   -System plan fmalized                      -Land use study fmalized but the National wide
management plans           -Prepare 5-years' integrated (park and  -Park and reserve management plans prepared  system plan not completed
reserves) management                   -Annual work plans prepared                -20 draft plans completed
-Prepare annual plans                  -ot management plans prepared              -15 integrated management plans drafted
-Prepare joint management plans with forest                                       -Annual work plans prepared up to 1996. Function
department                                                                        transferred to Directors office
-2 joint management (Shimba Hills and
Kakamega) completed
KWS ICR Abridged Version, January 2000                                                                                                                55



Objective                  Major Activities                         Outputs                                      Achievements
Prepare policy studies on   -prepare the Tourism Pricing policy and  -Tourism Pricing policy and development study    -Tourism study completed and formed the basis's
tourism and land use        development study                       carried out                                  for current park categorization and pricing
-prepare the Land Use study             -Land Use study carried out                  structure.
-Land use study done as input to the wildlife
policy
Community Wildlife Service
Create partnership with the    -Mobilization of communities         -Creations of institutions                   -Several communities mobilised and local and
communities                                                                                                      national institutions created
-Training                               -Comnunity capacity building
-Communities trained on wildlife based
-Fonmulate strategy on creation of                                                   management skills
partnerships
-Strategy formulation in progress
Resolve human-wildlife      -Problem animal control                 -Control of problem animals.                 -An effective program on PAC in most places.
conflict                   -Creation of barriers                    -Fencing erection and rehabilitation and     -280 Kms of electric fencing erected
-Community training on maintenance of   maintenance of moats                         -Community life fencing and moats in place
barriers                                -Community based maintenance of barriers.
-Fence technicians trained where there are fences
-Prepare and install guidelines on PAC  -Prepare and install guidelines              in place
-Study on human-wildlife conflict       -Report on the study of human wildlife conflict.   -Guidelines prepared and installed
-Input into wildlife policy and bill.
Create incentives           -Devolve WDF guidelines                 -Guidelines                                  -Guidelines in use
-Promote wildlife enterprises           -Create local conservation constituencies   -791 goodwill projects supported countrywide
-Support community social projects      -Establish sustainable income generating     -113 income generating enterprises funded
-Carryout pilot wildlife utilization    community projects                           examples being llingwesi, Mwaluganje, Kimana,
-Carryout plolicystudies onwldll tife   -Policy on consumptive use of wildlife       etc. through WDF
...rryout policy sttidies on wildlife  -Utilization program ongoing in four major areas
utilization                             -Report on utilization                       and several game farms are in operation
-Reports on utilization produced and used in
formulation of the bill
.lull details in the complete KWS ICR)
KWS ICR Abridged Version, January 2000                                                                                                                     56



Objective                  Major Activities                        Outputs                                     Achievements
Monitor and evaluate       -Create a data base                     -To have an effective community wildlife    Monitoring and evaluation aspect strengthened
Community Wildlife Program       e  d                         .M t   monitoring program
-Prepare and install guidelines on Mmom
&Evaluation
-Monitor the wildlife program
Education Programme
Enhance knowledge of Kenya  -School programrnmes                   -Various programmes in place                The Programme has significant accomplished
on conservation issues.       .  p       .                          E  b                                       sustainable outputs
.             ~~~~~Guided park visits                -Establishment of media Resource centre.
-Bus hire                              -Establishment of field education stations   (full details in the complete KWS ICR)
-Production of teaching materials.
Wildlife Protection and Security
Eliminate poaching and     -Recruit and train anti-poaching unit staff    -Established an extensive security network within  -Extensive paramilitary and security training
ensure visitor safety within  -      a s                           the parks and reserves.                     covering 55 different courses and 2910 (refresher
parks and reserves          Establish a security network wi                                                    courses) beneficiaries.
parks and reserves                      -Enhanced Airwing operations through acquisition
of several aircraft including the Caravan and a  -High morale among the armed personnel
helicopter for rapid intervention.          -Substantial reduction of poaching of wildlife
-Extensive paramilitary training            especially the rhino and the elephant
-Acquired combat equipment, Vehicles,       -Enhanced visitor security within the KWS parks
communication equipment and constructed staff   and reserves despite the fact that KWS is not
houses                                     responsible for providing security in non- KWS
managed reserves.
(full details in the complete KWS ICR)
KWS ICR Abridged Version, January 2000                                                                                                                   57



- 58 -
1.2   Major Factors Affecting the Project
The components were highly inter-linked through donor funding and covered a wide range of
interrelated activities, therefore delays in release of funds from some of the donors led to serious
implementation problems in programs marked for parallel funding. For example, KFW's and
DFID's inability to come on board at the beginning of the project led to delays in
commencement and implementation of park infrastructure component, and the FSIP and
Communication radio network, respectively.
While KWS' participation in civil works was 40% in the first half of the project period, KWS
income fell short of the forecasted amounts. Secondly, price escalations and devaluation of the
Kenya Shilling in 1993/94 resulted in a decrease in purchasing power and higher capital
investment and incremental costs than initially envisaged. Consequently the original scope of the
project was downscaled.
The implementation of civil works was delayed at the initial stage of KWS' pre-design planning
process, aimed at deternining priority areas and the facilities to be provided. In addition, the El
Nino rains of 1997/98 washed out sections of newly reconstructed roads and cut off access to
some sites. Consequently the implementation completion of civil works was delayed.
There were no institutional mechanisms in place to carry out monitoring and evaluation to ensure
the project is on course as per the design. This led to a situation where departments were
monitoring and evaluating their own performance. However, the establishment of an effective
and efficient monitoring and evaluation system is in process along with the other management
information systems.
There was no critical path planning to define priorities and sequence of activities in such a
complex project and thus the delay in the installation of requisite Management Systems seriously
affected the implementation of the project.
The change of the Chief Executive Officer and the high personnel turnover at the managerial
level coupled with weak linkages and inadequacy of the communication network within the
organization hampered the implementation of the project.
The organization did not have sufficient internal capacity to execute such a complex investment
program within the set period and at the same time restructure its operations from a Government
Department to a highly efficient commercial organization.
1.3   Project Sustainability
The premise under which the project was formulated assumed that KWS would generate
internally sufficient income and establish a Conservation Endowment Fund to take over
operations and have enough funds for capital replacement. However, the high operating and
maintenance costs generated by the new investment, the fall in receipts from tourism over the
period, and the expanded activities of KWS in protecting wildlife and visitors beyond the parks
and KWS managed reserves all impacted unfavorably against the envisaged financial self
sustainability. The organization recurrent expenditure increased over the period beyond the
KWS ICR Abridged version, January 2000



-59-
projected levels while revenues predicted at appraisal stage were not realized as can be seen in
Table 3 and 4 over page.
The TA remuneration's created a three-tier salary structure, which necessitated the
harmonization of salaries leading to a high unsustainable wage bill.
Table 3: Income and Expenditure Analysis
Year       Internally     Expenditure      Operating         Grants            Net
generated income     Kshs        Surplus/(deficit)  GoK & Donors  Surplus/(Deficit)
Kshs                            Kshs             Kshs            Kshs
1989190     68,634,520       85,658,738     (17,024,218)      9,074,554       (7,949,664)
1990/91    159,126,852      309,795,147    (150,668,295)    134,593,893     (16,074,402)
1991/92    291,245,377      331,872,358     (40,626,981)    235,033,761      194,406,780
1992/93    346,010,844      599,400,562    (253,389,718)    304,639,193       51,249,475
1993/94    730,897,767    1,039,179,476    (308,281,709)    482,514,458      174,232,749
1994/95    710,752,000    1,290,827,000    (580,075,000)    459,690,000     (120,385,000)
1995/96    809,116,000    1,473,432,000    (664,316,000)    451,439,000     (212,877,000)
1996197    946,510,000    1,685,706,000    (739,196,000)    359,663,000     (379,533,000)
1997/98    726,525,000    1,718,050,000    (991,525,000)    467,415,000     (524,110,000)
1998/99    740,371,000    1,360,170,000    (619,799,000)    573,599,000      (46,200,000)
Source: Audited Accounts
Table 4: Actual Internally Generated Income, Expenditure and
PAWS Projections in Millions US$
Income               Income   Expendi                 Expenditure    Exchange
Variance    ture                   Variance        rate
Year    Actual    PAWS    Shortfall   Actual    PAWS                        USS to Kshs.
Projection                      Projections
1991/92    9.4      10.0        0.6        10.7       14.7         4.0            31
1992/93    7.7      14.7        7.0        13.3       17.2         3.9            45
1993/94   12.2      17.7        5.5        19.0       19.4         0.4            60
1994/95   14.5      20.8        6.3        26.3       20.2        (6.1)           49
1995/96   14.2      23.7        9.5        25.8       20.4        (5.4)           47
1996/97   18.3      26.0        7.8        32.4       21.2       (11.20)          52
1997/98   14.2      28.4       14.2        33.7       21.2       (12.50)          51
1998/99   10.142    29.7       19.60       18.6       21.2         2.6            73
Source: Audited accounts and PAWS project document
KWS ICR Abridged version, January 2000



- 60 -
1.4   Bank Performance
The Bank reviewed all documents presented to them and issued approvals letters with minimal
delays. Advice and assistance sought in the procurement process and implementation of the
project was given. Regular site visits were conducted in liaison with the bank staff and all
supervision missions were conducted as scheduled. The bank staffs were flexible in their
approach of resolving problematic issues.
1.5   Government Performance (-Borrower)
GoK gave KWS an enabling environment by granting it autonomy and exempting it from the
State Corporations Act and ensured that donor funds were adequately reflected in the
government budget. The government provided assistance as sought i.e. tax waivers and financial
subventions. However, the rehabilitation of access roads to the parks was delayed.
1.6   KWSperformance (-Implementing agency)
The organization complied with the covenants and commitments and most of the objectives were
achieved. However, administration, design, and supervision of the civil works were not up to
required standards. Secondly, KWS was unable to prepare the required park management plans
and expand the conservation education programn as the planning and education components were
not functional for some time during the project period.
1. 7   Assessment of Outcome
Overall investment has greatly enhanced KWS's ability to reverse the decline of wildlife in parks
and has increased KWS portfolio of fixed assets considerably. Since most of the physical outputs
were realized. The investment especially in the infrastructure, equipment and vehicles has
greatly improved management of wildlife conservation. This is depicted in the increase in
number of Key species such as elephants and rhinos. Other areas which have seen a major
improvement include security operations which has led to reduced poaching, improved park and
reserve management
On the general management, the capacity of the organization in terms of system and human
resources has been strengthened leading to significant improvement in activity based planning
and budgeting which has helped in expenditure controls. Revenue generation and collection
mechanism have been improved leading to an increase in revenue.
1.8   Future Operation
There was a decline in wildlife populations in Kenya's range-lands over the period 1994-1998 in
virtually all the species due to increased incidences of diseases and poaching and competing
alternative land use within the range lands. The anticipated opening of ivory markets with down
listing of elephant to appendix ii has contributed to a surge in elephant poaching. This is
evidenced by the recent trends in poaching incidences as well as seizures of big caches of ivory
in major elephant ranges. At the same time, there is a worrying trend in the loss of habitat
especially indigenous forest cover, which continue to be depleted at an alarming estimated rate
KWS ICR Abridged version, January 2000



- .61 -
of 4000 ha per annum. To halt further loss and sustain conservation of biodiversity, immediate
intervention measures are required within protected and wildlife dispersal areas and forests.
KWS need to formulate sustainable strategies in diversification and development of its tourism
products and adopt marketing techniques in line with changing technology, tastes, and preference
in the global markets. Secondly, the organization needs to set up an off shore Conservation Trust
Fund to cushion KWS during lean times while enhancing its revenue from tourism by employing
more efficient collection mechanisms.
The infrastructures, vehicles, plant, and equipment continue to depreciate through usage and
require routine maintenance and eventual replacement to retain capacity of the organization to
conserve wildlife.
KWS requires a comprehensive internal policy and strategy to address issues related to park
management and conservation of wildlife outside protected areas.
KWS is working to have in place a revised wildlife policy approved and a new Act enacted by
parliament
Recent improvements in the revenue base and stringent expenditure control measures have
improved KWS revenue. It is envisaged that with tourism improvement, more efficient revenue
collection measures, re-negotiation of contracts and leases to reflect market rates will greatly
improve KWS financial position. Once the Conservation Trust Fund is operational, KWS will be
moving towards achieving financial self-sustainability.
2.0   Key Lessons Learned
I ) In future, before any investment is undertaken, a feasibility study would have to be done.
2)  A critical path analysis is required to determine critical inputs and activities before starting
actual implementation of any future project.
3)  All the critical systems should be in place before commencement of project implementation.
4)  KWS should maintain a record of prototypes and specifications of facilities, vehicles, and
equipment to ensure standardization within the organization.
5) The organisation should in future projects avoid over reliance on external consultancy
services and unsustainable technical assistance at the expense of building up internal
supervision capacity.
6)  Projects should be designed and implemented in consultation with the beneficiaries at all
levels.
7)  At the contracting stage, adequate and balanced measures should be taken to accommodate
the logistics involved in procurement, payment processes to protect the organization from
unnecessary penalties and poor performance.
KWS ICR Abridged version, January 2000



- 62 -
8) Training needs assessment should be carried out at the beginning of a project.
9) Different scenarios should be in the blue print as options to cushion against changing
factors.
10) To compete effectively with other tourist destination in the World, it is important to carry
out promotion and marketing of KWS products.
NOTE: The complete version of KWS' Iplementation Completion Report is available on
request.
KWS ICR Abridged version, January 2000



- 63 -
APPENDIX C
Analysis of PAWS' Economic Costs and Benefits (ERR)
The ERR calculation below follows the general model provided in Annex 9 of the project's SAR.
Included are three scenarios for future tourism growth which in tum implies three possible ERR
conclusions dependent on the actual longer-term tourist entry figures.
First, in the Base Case it is assumed that there is a quick recovery from the 1997/98 sharp decline in
tourism. Specifically, this scenario assumes that in the following year the tourist entries increase to the
average of the preceding five years and then grows according to the SAR's projections. This results in an
ERR of 24.28% and a positive NPV of US$ 29.41 million (using a 10% discount rate).
Second, in the Worse Case it is assumed that there is a gradual recovery from the 1997/98 decline in
tourist entries. This gradual recovery follows the 3% annual increase projected for 1998/99 through
2001/02 in the SAR, but is based on the actual lower base figure in 1997/98. This results in an ERR of
12.05% and a positive NPV of US$ 2.56 million (using a 10% discount rate).
Third, in the Worst Case it assumed that there is not a recovery from the 1997/98 decline with the entry
figures stagnating at the 1997/98 base figure. This results in an ERR of 8.81% and an NPV of negative
( - ) US$ 1.27 million (using a 10% discount rate).
Key assumptions used within the ERR model include the following:
I .    The year-by-year disbursement profile for the entire project (all financiers) is based on the actual
Paid Withdrawals for the IDA portion of the financing. This is detailed in the Disbursement Assumptions
Schedule within the second tab of the spreadsheet.
2.    The assumed year-by-year breakdown of foreign and local costs is based on the aggregate
proportions of foreign and local expenditure for each financier, as presented by Kenya PAWS summary
data.
3 .    A Standard Conversion Factor of 0.92 used in deriving the shadow prices of local costs (identical
to the Standard Conversion Factor used in the SAR model).
4.    Net Incremental Tourism Receipts and Revenue from Improved Wildlife Viewing assumptions
are based on the existing expenditure pattems at the time of the project design and the SAR's projected
increases in tourist expenditure, respectively.
5.    The terminal value (represented as a negative cost in the SAR model) is adjusted to reflect the
fact that actual investment is 76.8% of the planned investment.
One can conclude from review of the ERR scenarios that the project will likely result in positive
economic retums over the long-term. Only in the Worst Case scenario, in which tourism stagnates at
levels well below the recent historical average, does NPV turn negative and the ERR falls short of the
discount rate. We note that this ERR model could be improved in its representation by the addition of
more detailed actual data. This was not possible at the present time due to organizational difficulties
within Kenya PAWS. However the scenario depicted in Table 9 most closely represents our
understanding at the time of this ICR.



Base Case (Quick Recovery to 5-year Average from 1997/98 Drop in Tourism) (US$)
COSTS                                 ACTUAL                                                                         PROJECTED                                                                                                         TERlMIN'AL
92193     93194    94(9      9S/96     96097     97/98     98/99      WOO0    00(01       01M0      OM(0       03/04     04(05     O5/0       06(07     07/08     00/0       09(10     19/11
Project Ccots: CapSad and Jncreniento  13.34     24.03    13.94     27.90     18.07     1.58      10.83
Post Proje ct osts                                                                                           6.60      6.60       6.60      7.52      7.52      7.52       7.52      7.52      7.52       7.52      7.52   17.52
Tenninal                                                            _ _  __               _  _   _  _  __                _  __               _  _     _  __(2.49)
TOtalcosts                             13.34    24.03     13.94     27.09     16.07     1.58      10.83      6.60      6.60       6.60      7.52      7352       7.52      7.52      7.52      7.52       7.52      7.52      7.52        (2.49)
Cost* Usig 8h dooE%roha wge Rae                                                                                                                     ______
Fooig. Eoclaog Cost                    4.13      7.44      4.31      8.609    5.19      0.49       3.35
hiflatson(CPI)                         2.8%/     2.7%   12.60//     2.9%     2.51%      1.7%.     2.1%                 _ __________
PoWCoosponent Adjstcd for              4.01      7.04      3.98      7.77     4.89      0.42       2.82
hInfaionm to 1991/92 US
Local Cost                             9.21      16.59     9.63     19.33     12.48     1.09'    7.48
Local blnfimos                        14.6%/    23.4%     23.2%     10.0%     12.1%  113.1%       9.1%                 __                                                                                                               _____
Local1Cot AcustEWfor 1n1atin to        8.04      11.74     5.53     10.10     5.61      0.45       2.83
1991/92 US__________
Local Comoponent ater Standard         8.74      12.76     6.01     10.97     6.32      0.49       3.07
Conveeion
TOTrAL                                 52.75    1980q    9.9        18.74     1121      0.91       5.89                     7.89 789  79                        7.89                        L 7.89  7.89  7.89  7.879 79 79   789         (2.64)
BENEFIT                               ACU-                                                                 PR0JF.CI'I                     _ __       ___TERMINAL
with P6ojoct                          92/3      93/94     94/95'   98/9       96/9     97/98      90/9      99/00     00/01  101/02        02(03     0(04       04(05     05006     O6/07     07(0      -08/0      09(10     19(11
NoasbarofTonrist.                      1.11      1.24      1.12      1.18     1.09      0.63       1.09      1.09      1.12   11.16         1.19      1.19       1.19      1.19      1.19      1.19       1.19      1.19      1.19         1.19
Notltso-soetal Tout Reoipt.            7.70      16.10     0.34     12.47     5.93    (21.20)      4.87      6.82      8.82.     10.89     13.01      13.01     13.01     13.01     13.01      13.01     13.01      13.01     13.01        13.01
Ravenue fiomulnpovod Wildhif.          3.20      9.59     10.76     13.69     12.44     7.33      1226      12.62      13.00     13.39     13.79      13.79     13.79     13.79      13.79     13.9      13.79     13.79      13.79        13.79
Vienas
Subtotal                              10.90     25.69     19.10     26.16     18.26    (13.88)    17.13     19.44     21.83      24.28     26.80     26.80      26.80     26.80     26.80     26.80      26.80     26.80      26.80       26.80
Withoal Project
NsanberofTro=its                       1.1       12         .1       1.16   11.04   10.61   11.03          1 1.6      1 109       1.12   11.17   11.17   11.17             1.17      1.17      1.17     1.17        1.7       1.17         1.17
NetlnorensntalTousitRocaipts  7.70   116.10  17.60     11.02  13.85      (22.37) 12.93              4.81      6.76   18.76    11.5           115 11.55            1.1   11.55          1.5      1555      5 1.55I 11.5            13.55I" _
92/93     93(94    94/95     95/9      96/97     97/9      989(99    9/0        0/1       0/2       0/0        30         40        5        06/07      07/0       80       09/10     twit1   TERiNAL
TOTA Maost ros3.20                           9.9      11.44     15.14    14.41      8.49      14.20     1463      15,07       55        55       1.5       1.5        1.5       1.2        52         52        52          2          52
TOTAL B.n.&ts fterStanda13.8                     104      12.44     16.46     15.66  J9.23        15.44     159         6.38     18         68       15          65        65        65         65        65        65         65          65
C onverion(.9 )                                                      _   _   _   _     _ _   _I__                                               _   _  _  __                _  _
NET BENEFIT                            95)      (.1         .4      (.1        .6       83         .4181               89         1.8       89        89        88          .9       88         .9       86          .9 [86                92
Economi rte of eturn                      24.18%
Net Presnt Value at 10h Discotnt Rate     894
64



Worse Case (Gradual Recovery from 1997/98 Drop in Tourism) (US$)
COSTS           -ACTUAL                                                                                           PROJECIE                                                                                                      TERiUNAL
92M9     93194    94195    9&%8    96/97       97/98     98/99     99/00     00/01     01102     02/03     03/4      04/05     05/0      06/0      07108     08/0      09/10     10/11
ProjectCasts: Capitalardlaorenental    _13.34    24.03    13.94    27.99   18.07      1.58     10.83
Post?rojeotCoats                                                                                          6.0)      6.60      6.60      7.52      7.52.    7.52       7.52      7.52      7.52      7.52     7.52       7.52
Terminl_                                                                     _  __ _ _                                        _  _                                                                                                 (2.49)
Total Cots                           13.34     24.03     13.94    27.99    18.07      1.58     10.83      6.60      6.60      6.60      7.52      7.52     7.52       7.52      7.52      7.52      7.52     7.52       7.52       (2.49)
Coasi Ussing Skad.mExekmW geR8
Foreignsxolbang.Cost                  4.13     7.44      4.31     8.66      5.59      0.49      3.35
hinlatimn(CPI)                       2.8%      2.7%      2ff/s    2.9%/    2.51%     1.7%/     2.1%
ForeWigComsponot A4uotsd for          4.01     1.04      3.98     7.77      4.89      0.42      2.82
lnlltions to 1991/92 IJS
Local Coot                            9.21     16.59     9.63     19.33    12.48      1.09      7.48
Local 10/ltion                       14.6%     23.4%    23.2%    10.0%/    12.1%     13.1%     9.1%
Local CctA4wted forhlaollsioto        8.04     11.74     5.53     10.10     5.81      0.45      2.83
199V/92 US                                                     I         I        I         I
L.oa 3ConWonect aftStandard           8.4      1.6        .0      1.9       6.2       09        37
TOTAL.1 12.75  119.80  19.99  118.74  111.21                                         0.91       5.89       7.89   17.89,    7.89        7.89     7.89_ 17.89   17.89           7.89        7.89      7.89   7- .89     7.89        (2.64)
BENMFTS                             ACTUAL                                                              PROJEjCTED                                                                                                              TERMINAL
With Ptujed                          92/93     93/9     94(9      95/96    96/97     97/98     98/9      99/0      00/       01/0      02/03     03/04.    04/0      05/0      06/07     07/0      080       09/10    10/11
Nouabor ofTounts                      1.11      1.24     1.12     1.18      1.0       0.63      0.65      0.67      0.69      0.71      0.71      0.71      0.71      0.71      0.71      0.71      0.71     0.71      0.71         0.71
Netlnoensutal TuriAtR.4ripl           7.70     16.10     8.34     12.47     5.83    (21.20)   (20.04)   (18.84)   (17.61)   (16.34)   (16.34)   (16.34)   (16.34)   (16.34)   (16.34)   (1634)   (1634)   (16.34)   (16.34)        (1634)
RFovconsftohan provd Wildif           3.20      9.59     10.76    13.69     12.44     7.33      7.55      7.78      8.01      8.25      8.25      8.25      8.25      8.25      8.25      8.25      8.25      8.25      8.25        8.25
Vi-ving___
Subtotal                             10.90    25.69    19.10    26.16      18.26    (138)    (24) (10).9.)                   (89)      8.)       (.9)      8.)       (.9)      (8.09)    (8.09)    (.) (8.09)          (8.09)     .(8.09)
NtcnberofTcsoists         1.11     ~~~~~~1.24  1.11   1.6       10        .1        06         .3       0.67      0.690     0.70      0.70   10.70       0.70      0.70      0.70   10.70   10.70   10.70               0.70
Not JocrcmerlalTounist Rooepts        7.70   116.10      7.66     11.02  13.85  1(22.37)   (21.24)   (20.08)   (18.88)   (17.6.5)   (17.21)   (17.21)   (17.21)   (17.21)   (17.21)   (17.21) 1(17.211   (17.21)   (17.21)         (17.2)
_____________________   _____                                 ____~~  97/98                                      01/9020/1  l  02/03  3/4      040       050 f  06/7         0/8       0/9 00910            tWi~FrtEt.IN
tTOTALMAhkotPie                        3.20     9.59     1 1.44     15. 14  14.41     8.49       8.75     9.01       9.20      9.56      9.12     9.12      9.12      9.12      9.12      9.12      9.12  f9.12         9.12         9.12
Convossim (.92)__                                    1          __I_ ______ II                                                                                                                           I__.___
NET BENEFffS                         (9.20)    (9.38)    2.44    (2.28)    4.46      8.32       3.61      1.91      22        .0        2.03     2.03      20          .3j20              .3       23j20                0           25
Ecoiusuic rate of return   -2.05%
Net Preset Value at 10% Diwcunst Rate    $2.56-
65



Worst Case (No recovery from 1997/98 Drop in Tourism) (US$)
com     ACTUAL                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECTED                                                                                               TERMINAL
92/9      93194     94/95     95/96     9619       9719      9819       9911       00/91     0119       02w        0mm0       04/05     05/0       06/07      01/0       OHM9      09110     10111
Post Prqect Cosb                                                                   ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~6.60  6.60  6.60    7.52      7.52       7.52       7.52      7.52       7.52       7.52      7.52       7.52
Termirw                                                                                                                                                                               (2.49)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(.9
Totad COSU                   ~~13.34    24.03     13.94     27.99     15.01      1.59      10.93       6.60      6.60       6.60       7.52       7.32      7.52       7.52       7.52      7.52       7.52       7.52      7.52        (2.49)
Fomip Embmp coa14.13                    17.440     9.99      8.74      51.29     0.491      3.35       7.9       78         7.9        76        7.9        78          .9       78          .9         .9       79          .(.4
Local Cost 9impoeWllfe                   3m       96.59     1076      19336    12.44       7.33       7.33       734.3                73          .3         .3       73          .3        73         .3         .3        73         .373
Local hiflatyll              ~10.90     23.69    219.1      260.16      1.2    (13.18)    (.13.5      1.7        (.7       (.5        1.5        1.8       1.8        1.8        1.8       1.8        1.8        1.8       1.8             .8
LNwdCo.otA,w flfouru                     .11       11.24     1.1      10.16      1.0       0.43       0.1        06         .1        06          .2         .2       06          .2        06         .6         .2       06          .206
L ocal  4ai*etPrafte                      3.MI"   9.74 197    11.44    10.14      64.41     8.49       8.07       84          .9       84          .0         .0       51          .0        51         .1         .0       81          .081
TCTAL   1cfhaf.rada                      3'      1190.2     144       16.46      (5.66     09.2       59.2       9239       792       799        8.81      5.81       8.51       8.8   1    8.8   1         8.991  7881    98.82.681
BETNE HTrS                             ACTUA  (918                                                                OJ4   2.9)______                                                                                                             TER__   NAL
(.92)Tnss111                                 124       11   ±      1       4.49      8.32       3.3       0134       0.634      1.3        0.92      0.92       0.92       0.92       0.92      0.92       092       0923       0.92          0.AS
Net uammk,utafrTunst R8e)                 .0      1.0        83          4 .83             2.0       2.0        2.0        2.0       2.01%12) (10                     21) (12) (12)    2.0                      21) (10               2.0          2.0
NRevm  fim .np Va ed at 10     3h.Ia.2 (3 .27)7                        36         14       73          .3        7.3       7           .3        73          .3       73          .3         .3       73          .3       73          .373
V-9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6



SU DAN                                                                                     K E N YA
WILDLIFE AND PROTECTED AREAS
( \ t  ,J            MANAGEMENT PROJECT
\   \              1     0             3~         ~~~~~~~~~0 t 
UGANDA   
/  3;9       /           s     t                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WAJ +
7+          2                *                 g                      g [                                             SOMALIA
34     ran                                               FL, Aa, A3 9b
4~~~~~~~
XCg;e~~~~~~~~~~0 11 BUSHU 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 80W                               3.SMUU           27WTA2
AREATIOFNMAL BOUNLARND     S L                       BUFALO SEOS C O N F L I C OSITEINATN
8 MARUINEP ARS 'I  DISULEIDP
=  MARHNELLSERVES   NATIONAI0ARKS     LM2INE RESERVES    64
N    NTIONAL  CPTLSMUTLO                            2SUHTFAA          NKIN                                             Nr       w'    4=S
ROA  RS                 8II MLEFUV        3iBU  KESOV LEY~p                        _  ,3881
*   AINERASIOFNAJRLANDPORSE COFLC IA-             3   AE0Od         6MLN                            9SD N                           DIA E Nou   7J
0R0ES OF            20TN. LLAKUENAKU        4  SOUTH C1NF LAC
M~~~~~1 SEARIE DPurALoRF2rKSIT    
NENATIONAALRESERV AES                                                                                 55 7UA*   IAAI/_           1 
MARNEREERESNkIONA PARKSGT             aEAOE               MFNFSFE                                                       ,     F>^
AILOMETERS ~       ~~~~ IYOONOE3K *  MASA MAf          'OB N                                            =         _
gD  5D    IDi     ~~I°      I    21. 7MSOSEU       47. 7018081      55 M,ATMA3  IJ;>                                                 </       hF
NATIONAL CAPITALI22  MOUNT WEST             ii  WI             M  IA7UNGUT
_A W5  SW A MP    SO    20A0I        \PiT ARK S2CnL
D          RIVERS                       N= OE SAUL U    E   SHAOA H  G7. 8T02
T& HIS PROCES 0 a  RAHZ18 ET       MAIE EERE



