Page  1
January 31, 1997
The Hon. Musalia Mudavadi
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Excellency:
                   Development Grant Agreement
         (Protected Areas and Wildlife Services Project)
                           Amendment
     We would like to refer to the Development Grant Agreement for the
Protected Areas and Wildlife Services Project dated October 22, 1996
between the Republic of Kenya (the Recipient) and the International
Development Association as Administrator (the Administrator) of a
Grant provided by Kreditanstalt F\01r Wiederaufbau (KFW).
     We would also like to refer to discussions between us on speeding
up the implementation of activities financed by the Grant by
introducing a Special Account in the Grant Agreement.
     We hereby propose, therefore, to amend the Grant Agreement as
follows:
1.   A new Section 2.05 shall be included as follows:
          "Section 2.05.  The Recipient may, for the purposes of the
     Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
     in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
     the Administrator, including appropriate protection against
     set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments
     out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
     the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement."
2.   The Schedule shall be renumbered Schedule 1.
3.   A new Schedule 2 shall be added to the Grant Agreement. Schedule
2 is attached to this letter.
     If you agree with the proposed amendment, please sign the
duplicate copy of this letter and return it to us.  The amendment
will become effective on the date of your signature.
Sincerely,
Harold Wackman
Country Director, Kenya & Djibouti
World Bank - Kenya
Attachment
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By: /s/ Musalia Mudavadi
    Authorized Representative
Date: February 19, 1997
Page  2
                                SCHEDULE 2
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2 set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the amount of the Grant
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient
shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of
such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient
               shall furnish to the Administrator requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Administrator shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator the
               documents and other evidence required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
               payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such request, the
               Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient,
               withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into
               the Special Account such amount as the Recipient
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown
               by said documents and other evidence to have been
               paid out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
               by the Administrator from the Grant Account under
               the respective eligible Categories, and in the
               respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
               justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Administrator shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined
Page  3
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient
directly from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the
Administrator, within the period of time specified in Section
3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified
the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Con-
ditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated
to the  eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all out-
standing special commitments entered into by the Administrator
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly
upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be
made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to para-
graphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation
in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
