KFW GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2334 KE
Development Grant Agreement
(Protected Areas and Wildlife Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU
Dated OG O           , 1996


﻿KFW GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2334 KE
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     0 Ctk' 0   -   ;2 , 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
KENYA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as Administrator (the A dministrator) of a Grant provided by KREDITANSTALT
FOR WIEDERAUFBAU (KFW).
WHEREAS the Recipient has requested the assistance of the International
Development Association (the Association) and of KFW in the financing of a Protected
Areas and Wildlife Services Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement dated March 30, 1992 between the Recipient and the Association (IDA Credit
Agreement);
WHEREAS, in consideration of the above-mentioned request, KFW shall open a
trust account and deposit therein an amount not exceeding twenty-eight million Deutsche
Marks (DM 28,000,000) (the KFW Grant) and has, pursuant to a Letter of Agreement dated
December 1, 1993, as amended, between KFW and the Association (the Administration
Agreement), appointed the Association as Administrator of the said Trust Account for the
purpose of providing assistance to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS the Association, as Administrator as hereinbefore mentioned, has
agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend the KFW Grant to the Recipient
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association,
dated January 1, 1985, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof:
(a)    the term "Association," whenever used in the General Conditions, means
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the KFW Grant
pursuant to the provisions of the Administration Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b)    the term "Development Credit Agreement," whenever used in the General
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)    the term "Credit," whenever used in the General Conditions, means the
KFW Grant hereunder;
(d)    the term "Credit Account," whenever used in the General Conditions or 'n
this Agreement, means the Account opened by the Association in its books in the name of
the Recipient to which the amount of the KFW Grant is credited;
(e)    the term "Project" means the Project for which the KFW Grant is extended,
as described in Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit Agreement dated March 30, 1992, and as the
description thereof may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Association and the Recipient.
(f)    Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01,
8.01 (a) and 12.05 of the General Conditions are deleted; and
(g)    in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term
"Association" shall include also the Association acting in its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, the following terms "Deutsche
Mark" and "DM" mean the currency of Germany.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and
conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of twenty-eight million
Deutsche Marks (DM 28,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the KFW Grant may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the Schedule to this Agreement for expenditures made (or if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works and
goods required for the Project.
(b)    Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the respective
currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the KFW Grant
have been paid or are payable or, at the option of the Association, in Deutsche Marks.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
works and goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
KFW Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the IDA
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or such later date as
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of
such later date.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Program
Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, Articles III and IV
of the IDA Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that all references
in such Articles III and IV to the "Association" shall be deemed to be references to the
Association acting as Administrator on behalf of the Kreditanstalt fOr Wiederaufbau under
this Agreement, all references to the "Development Credit Agreement" shall be deemed to
be references to this Development Grant Agreement, and all references to the "Credit" shall
be deemed to be references to the KFW Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient and the
Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the IDA Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.04. The representative designated in Section 6.01 of the IDA Credit
Agreement shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 4.05. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of the IDA Credit Agreement
shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿-4-
Section 4.06. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the IDA Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Agreement, the rights and
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to KFW. The
Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Recipient to that
effect, KFW shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in all
rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as if KFW had been an
original party to this Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part
of any party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or
obligations as a party under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WIEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By/    (                             LNI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
as ADMINISTRATOR on behalf of the
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU
By/ /CULO                  44ow
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿-5-
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the KFW Grant
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the KFW Grant, the allocation of the amount of the KFW Grant to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
KFW Grant
Allocated                % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                   DM Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Civil works                      22,300,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2) Consultants'                      1,400,000        100%
services
(3) Unallocated                       4,300,000        100%
TOTAL                     28,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made with respect to Category (1) on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after March 31, 1996.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
Fb-SECUTARY


