                                                                           E1012
                                                                          Volume 2

              Framework for Environmental Assessment Procedures

                 for Energy Transmission Line Projects in Turkey



1. Introduction


Under ECSEE (formerly SEEREM), the power transmission component will consist

mainly of rehabilitation of existing power lines, new 154 kV power lines, new 380 kV

power lines, rehabilitation of substations and new 380 kV substations. The power

lines will follow existing rights-of-way,     where possible, which ensures that

environmentally sensitive areas outside the road envelope will not be adversely

affected.


The procedures presented in this Framework Document details actions, which will be

taken to ensure compliance with Turkish Environmental Regulations and Procedures

(basically Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Regulation) and the World Bank

environmental assessment (EA) policies and procedures as specified in the World

Bank Operational Policy OP/BP/GP 4.01             (EnvironmentalAssessment) for a

"Category A" and a "Category B" project.


The procedures consist of the following nine elements, which address both

design/construction and operational aspects:


Desiqn/Construction Phase


   *   Project Screening

   *   EA Documentation/Document Content

   *   Consultation

   *   EA Review and Approval

   *   Disclosure

   *   Implementation Conditions/Obligations

   *   Environmental Standards/Guidelines

   *   Licensing and Permitting


                                                   Fr rfmr

 Implementation Phase


    *   Institutional arrangements for environmental management

    *   Reporting


Descriptions for the above elements, basically the procedures, which will be followed,

are presented below.


2. Design/Construction Phase


2.1. Project Screening


The planning and design of power transmission lines are under the responsibility of

TEIAS General Directorate, Department of Electric Transmission Lines Project

Design, Expropriation and Environment. This department identifies the corridor for

the project right-of-way and establishes a project design, which will be the basis for

the implementation tender of the project. The Environmental Unit of TEIAS, which is

a subunit of the above mentioned department, decides and coordinates the

requirement for the preparation of an environmental assessment report (EAR) or an

environmental management plan (EMP)           in accordance with the Turkish EIA

Regulation and the World Bank requirements for Category A and B projects.


According to Turkish EIA Regulation (Annex 1) a full EIA report and process (that is

the classification equivalent to the EA requirements of the World Bank for a Category

A project) is required for the power transmission line projects of 154 kV or above that

has a length of more than 15 km, including transformer stations or switchyards as a

part of the project.


For the transmission line projects the EIA service tenders are conducted by the

Environmental Unit of TEIAS based on the prequalification of independent consulting

companies (consultants), which are already given license by the Turkish Ministry of

Environment and Forestry (MoEF) specifying that these consultants are eligible to

prepare EIA reports for the Ministry of Environment and Forestry.         The Turkish

process for full EIA requirements can be followed from the flowchart provided below.


                                                                                     2

  Turkish Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation

                              Flow Scheme

(Regulation of December 16, 2003 (Official Gazette No. 25318)




          Project Description Brief is prepared and submitted to the MoEF



           The MoEF reviews the Project Description Brief and Review
                               Committee is formed



                            Public Participation Meeting



                                 Scoping Meeting



    Ministry of Environment and Forestry provides the Project Specific Format



     Preparation of the EIA report and Submission of the report to the MoEF



              Review of the MoEF and Review Committee Meetings




     EIA Report is finalized based on the comments of the Review Committee
                      and Final Report submitted to the MoEF




              "EIA Positive / Negative" Verdict is given by the MoEF




 Project approved (with conditions)     |                 Project rejected




                                                                                3

Annex 2 of the Turkish EIA Regulation lists the projects where a Project Description

Brief is required by the MoEF in order to screen these projects, that is to decide if a

full EIA is necessary or not. This Annex includes power transmission lines of 154 kV

and more, which has a length shorter than 15 km.


The power transmission line projects are generally classified as Category B by the

World Bank OP 4.01. For the projects under this classification generally preparation

of and EMP is required based on the criteria provided in Annex A to this document.

For the projects that are classified in Annex 2 of the Turkish EIA Regulation and

decided by the MoEF that a full EIA is not needed, the Environmental Unit of TEIAS

will decide if an EMP will be required for the project based on the above mentioned

criteria given in Annex A to this document. With this regard if it is decided that the

project is small and/or with negligible environmental issues that no EMP is required,

no further environmental procedures are necessary.         The Environmental Unit of

TEIAS will document this decision together with the reasons for it.


2.2. EA Documentation/Document Content


For the projects that require the preparation of a full EIA report (Category A projects

according to World Bank classification), the reports will be prepared in accordance

with the project specific format to be provided by the MoEF. However, this format will

have some differences with the general format of the World Bank. The World Bank

general EA format includes the following chapters:


    *   Introduction

    *   Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework

    *   Project Purpose

    *   Project Description

    *   Baseline Data

    *   Environmental Impacts

    *  Analysis of Alternatives

    *   Environmental Management Plan



                                                                                     4

     *  Record of Public Consultation


Basically all of these headings are covered in the specific format provided by the

MoEF for the full EIA reports.      However, there is naturally no "Policy, Legal and

Administrative Framework" chapter. In addition, mitigation actions are required to be

specified for the adverse impacts and a monitoring plan is required as a part of the

EIA report by the MoEF. However, they may not be in the form of an environmental

management plan as required by the World Bank.                  Furthermore,  institutional

requirements for the monitoring actions are not much explicitly specified as required

by the World Bank.       Following chapters are included in a typical EIA format for a

power transmission line:


    *   Project Purpose and Description

    *   Characteristics of the Project Area

    *   Economic and Social Dimensions of the Project

    *   Impact Area of the Project and Baseline Characteristics of this Area

    *   Environmental Impacts of the Project and Mitigation Measures

    *   Analysis of Alternatives

    *   Conclusions

    *   Therefore, for a project that requires a full EIA report according to Turkish EIA

        Regulation, the appendices of this report will include and appendix for the

        Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework in Turkey, an appendix for the

        EMP (including mitigation and monitoring activities as a plan) and the

        institutional requirements to carry out the mitigation and monitoring measures

        and an Appendix for the Record of Public Consultation.




For the projects that are classified in Annex 2 of the Turkish EIA Regulation and

decided by the MoEF that a full EIA is not needed, the Environmental Unit of TEIAS

will decide if an EMP will be required for the project based on the above mentioned

criteria given in Annex A to this document. If the preparation of an EMP is required

by TEIAS, it will be prepared in accordance with the format provided in Annex Bi

(Format for an Environmental Management Plan) of this document. As can be seen



                                                                                         5

from this Annex the key elements of the EMP are the Mitigation and Monitoring Plan

for which samples are provided in Annex B2. Other key components of an EMP are

Institutional Arrangements and Consultation with Local NGOs and Project-Affected

Groups.


The final EIA report (for the projects requiring a full EIA) and the final EMP for any

project will be translated into English and copies of each will be submitted to the

World Bank by TEIAS.        In addition, the approval documents for the EMP and the

verdicts of the MoEF will be provided to the World Bank as well.


2.3. Consultation


For the projects requiring full ElAs, the public consultation process of Turkish EIA

Regulation is basically compatible with the World Bank. According to this regulation

a public information and consultation meeting is held in the scoping stage of the EIA

process. The issues identified in this meeting are taken into account in the formation

of the specific format for the project and preparation of the EIA report.


For this consultation meeting announcements are made in at least one of the

newspapers published countrywide, in the local governorate, municipality, and by the

headmen in the villages. The announcements include the subject (project name,

place etc., date and place of the meeting).          Generally places suitable for the

participation of everybody is selected, such as a village coffeehouse. In addition, if it

is found necessary arrangements for the transportation of locals to the meeting place

are made.


Public consultation for discussion is also a part of the review process of the EIA

report. When the review period is started by the MoEF it is announced to the public

and the EIA report is opened to public review at the local governorates. The locals

are informed via the written announcements in the local authorities (municipalities,

governorates etc.). Public consultation at this stage aims to determine if any other

issues should be added or removed from the EIA report. By these means the voice

of the locally affected groups are fully recognized in the final EIA report.




                                                                                       6

For a project that does not require a full EIA, but decided by TEIAS that it requires an

EMP, public consultation will be announced, organized,        conducted and documented

as described in Annex B1 (Section E - Consultation        with Local NGOs and Project-

Affected Groups) to this document.       The purpose of the consultation is to obtain

views of the local people concerning the environmental       issues related to the project,

which they feel are important. These issues      will then be included in the EMP. The
consultation meeting(s) will be conducted before      a draft EMP is prepared and when
preparing the EMP the issues identified in the   consultation will be included. The final

EMP will be open to public access in the local governorates       and TEIAS will make it
available in its website on the internet as well.


2.4. EA Review and Approval


For the projects requiring a full EIA, the review and    approval is the responsibility of
the MoEF. When the EIA report is completed       in accordance with the project specific
format provided by the MoEF in the end of      the scoping phase, it is submitted to the
MoEF. The MoEF first reviews the report according        to the format and then calls the
review committee to meetings, called as review committee            meetings.    In these

meetings the report is presented and the questions           or concerns of the Review
Committee are answered and necessary        changes, additions to, or removals from the
report are done. The committee members          review the statement according to their
scope of responsibilities.    Representative organizations on the Committee          may
include:


   -   Related General Directorates of the MoEF

   -   The General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works      (DSI)

   -   General Directorate of State Meteorological Works (DMI)

   -  The General Directorate of Forestry

   -   Provincial Environment and Forestry Directorate

   -  The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs

   -  The Ministry of Health.

   -  Provincial Health Directorate

   -  Municipalities




                                                                                        7

   -    Experts from University (iffound necessary)

   -    Project owner (TEIAS)

   -    EIA Consultant


As a result all Committee Members provide their opinion regarding to approval of the

EIA report and the project. Based on this review results the MoEF, General Director

of Planning and EIA either gives an EIA positive or negative decision. The positive

decision means project is approved (generally with conditions at least indicating that

the EIA report is a commitment for the project implementation and has to be

complied with by the project owner and all relevant contractors of the project) and the

activities should be commenced in 5 years (if they are not commenced in 5 years a

new EIA report is required for the project).     The negative decision indicates that

project is rejected and cannot be carried out.


For the projects requiring the preparation of an EMP, the Environmental Unit of

TEIAS will review and approve the EMP.         TEIAS experts will review the EMP in

accordance with the requirements specified in Annex B1 of this framework document.

The EMP will be finalized according to the comments of the Environmental Unit of

TEIAS and will be approved.       The MoEF will not be a part of review or approval

process for the EMPs of such projects.


2.5. Disclosure


As described in Heading 2.3 above, the EIA report will be disclosed by the MoEF.

This approved EIA report will be available in the offices of local authorities and are

publicized on the website of the MoEF. Similarly, the approved EMP will be available

to public in local TEIAS offices, where it will be convenient to the people living in or

near the area, where the project is to be implemented. In addition, these EMPs will

be available in the internet on the website of TEIAS.


2.6. Implementation Conditions/Obligations


As mentioned before, the EIA report is a commitment by TEIAS to the MoEF and the

World Bank regarding its' obligation for agreed upon measures of environmental


                                                                                      8

management throughout the life of the project. This commitment is the responsibility

of the project owner and all related contractors.       Thus, prior to contract award by

TEIAS the Environmental Unit of TEIAS will insure that all bid documents contain

conditions (or articles) specifying that the approved (not needed since the Category A

EIA will have an EMP as an Annex) EMP are a part of the conditions to be complied

with and must be included in all bid documents.


The monitoring of the performance of the contractor during construction will be

carried out by the responsible parties specified in the monitoring plan. Environmental

Unit of TEIAS will be the authority to make the final check with regard to the

performance of the Contractor with regard to the relevant specifications in the bid

documents and EMP.         For the case of an EIA report, TEIAS will have "first line"

responsibility for assurance compliance with conditions of the EMP (Category A or

B). However, the MoEF is the ultimate responsible agency for auditing and ensuring

that the conditions in the EIA report are complied with.


2.7. Environmental Standards/Guidelines


TEIAS will use Turkish or World Bank environmental standards and standards (which

ever is stricter) for electric power transmission line projects. These standards are

basically related, but not limited, to the following:


    *  Environmental impact assessment

   *   Solid and hazardous waste management

   *   Noise levels (during construction)

   *   Electric     and      magnetic       field    intensities  at    ground     level

       (transmission/distribution) or at the fence line (transformer substation)

   *   Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are to be prohibited from use in any

       equipment purchases (e.g. transformers, capicatators) or any replacement

       components

   *   Right-of-way selection

   *   Environmental auditing

   *   Health and safety



                                                                                      9

    *   Pesticide use for land clearance

    *   Cultural Heritage

    *   Natural Habitats


The criteria and standards for the above mentioned issues, and any other relevant

issue can be found in the Turkish Regulations and the Pollution Prevention and

Abatement Handbook of the World Bank (which ever applicable). With regard to

these issues the requirements of Turkish Regulations will be certainly complied with.

If there are no standards or requirements in Turkish Regulations or if the standards of

the World Bank are stricter these will be used in construction and operation. The

major World Bank documents related to these issues are Bank Operational Policies,

EA Sourcebook and Updates, and the above mentioned handbook available from the

website of the World Bank.       Some of the directly related Turkish Environmental

Regulations are:


    -   Noise Control Regulation

    -  Water Pollution Control Regulation

    -  Solid Waste Control Regulation

    -  Soil Pollution Control Regulation

    -  Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation

    -  Environmental Auditing Regulation

    -   Harmful Chemical Substances and Products Control Regulation

    -   Hazardous Waste Control Regulation

    -  Workers Health and Safety Regulation

    -  Regulation regarding Safety in Electricity Facilities




2.8. Licensing and Permitting


The necessary licenses and/or permits will be obtained by TEIAS itself or via its

contractors for various services, such as environmental impact assessment,

equipment procurement, construction etc., from the MoEF or other governmental

agencies as required. Some of the permits that will be required are:



                                                                                     10

     *  EIA positive or EIA not necessary certificates

     *  Permit for water discharge to receiving     bodies (if there is such a discharge
        from the construction camp facilities)

     *  Hazardous waste disposal         permit for Hazardous Waste           Storage,   or
        Intermediate Storage (if applicable)

     *  Solid waste disposal permit (disposal   of the solid wastes to the landfill site of
        the municipality due to solid waste generation   in the camp facilities and during

        construction and operation activities)

     *  Permit to pass through a forest area (if applicable)


 3. Implementation Phase


 3.1. Institutional Arrangements for     Environmental Management


 During construction, the Environmental      Unit of TEIAS, in cooperation with the
 regional offices, will check the performance    of the contractor to assure the works
reflects the requirements specified in     the EIA reports and EMPs, which ever          is
applicable. With this regard periodic reports    will be required from the construction
contractors and on-site checks will be carried  out if found necessary.


During operation, the Environmental        Unit of TEIAS, will assist the operations
department and review their performance      with regard to the obligations specified   in
the EIA report or the EMP for           the operation phase of the projects.          The
representatives of the Environmental      Unit of TEIAS will review the environmental
management performance of the regional          offices of TEIAS with respect to the
projects of concern in a quarterly basis.


3.2. Reporting


TEIAS    will  include  a discussion of environmental         progress and status in
implementing the requirements in the       EIA reports or the EMPs for the       relevant
projects in their quarterly report to theWorld Bank. This information will be based    on
the status reports to be prepared by   the Environmental Unit of TEIAS.


                                                                                        11

I

                                       ANNEX A

ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING CRITERIA FOR DECIDING THE PREPARATION

                  OF AN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN




If any of the following factors are assessed to be significant by the Environmental

Unit of TEIAS, an EMP will be required for the project of concern:


   *   Change in land use or land surface contours (altering runoff patterns)

   *   Possible use of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in equipment (transformers

       or capacitators) to be purchased or disposal of PCBs in in equipment to be

       rehabilitated or decommisioned

   *   Soil erosion (land clearing)

   *   Possible impact to public health

   *   Removal of considerable number of trees

   *   Public exposure to electric or magnetic fields

   *   Interference with local aesthetic characteristics

   *   Permanent loss of productive land from support structure placement

   *   Environmental sensitive areas involved (protected area, sensitive ecosystems,

       etc.)

   *   Culturally sensitive areas involved (structures/locations     of historical or

       archeological significance)

I




I
ii
i




i

                        ANNEX B1: FORMAT FOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL                   MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
Responsible Party
       The name of the TEIAS staff member who prepared          the EMP should be specified, his title and the date    when it was
prepared.

Proiect Description
       Present a brief description of the subproject. Include   the nature of the investment, the location, and any    characteristics
of the area that are of particular interest, e.g. near a protected area, area of cultural, historical, religious interest etc.Also,
very briefly describe the general land use characteristics   (farming, small industry etc.), and the location(s) of the   nearest
population centers. If available, a simple map should    be included.

A. MITIGATING PLAN


     Phase                   Issue                 Mitigating             Responsibility*
                                                    Measure
Planning/Design

                    0



Construction




Operation




                   0
*      Items indicated to be the responsibility of the contractor shall be specified in the bid documents

B.MONITORING PLAN

 Phase       What          Where          How           When       Responsibility
           parameter is     is the        is the         is the
              to be      parameter to  parameter to  parameter to
           monitored?        be       be monitored/        be
                          monitored?      type of      monitored-
                                         monitoring   frequency of
                                        equipment?   measurement
                                                           or
                                                   .  continuous?
Construct




Operate




NOTE:     Any item identified in the mitigation plan must have a corresponding entry in the monitoring plan. For example,
          if noise is an issue presented inthen mitigating plan, than noise should be an item inthe monitoring plan

C. SCHEDULE
Present (preferably in Chart Form) Start Dates and Finish     Dates for:

*   Mitigation Activities
*    Monitoring Activities


D. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
        A narrative discussion supported by organizational charts   detailing:
*   Institutional responsibilities and procedures for mitigationand monitoring and how
    they are linked for environmental management
*   Environmental information flow (reporting-from who and      to who and how often)
*   Decision making chain of command for environmental management            (to take
    action, to authorize expenditures, to shut down, etc.)

        In short, how is all the monitoring data going to be used to maintain sound
environmental performance-who collects the data,       who analyzes it, who prepares
reports, who are the reports sent to and how often, and    who does that person send it
to, or what does he/she do with the information-who has       the authority to spend,
shutdown, change operations etc.


E.CONSULTATION WITH LOCAL NGOs AND PROJECT-AFFECTED                         GROUPS
                      Provide documentation of the following:
*   Date(s) consultation(s) was (were) held
*   Location(s) consultation(s) was (were) held
*   Who was invited
                  Name, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-mail
                  number/address (home and/or office)

*   Who attended
                  Name, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-mail
                  number/address (home and/or office)
*   Meeting Program/Schedule
                          What is to be presented and by whom

*   Summary Meeting Minutes (Comments, Questions          and Response by
    Presenters), including the name(s) of the EdL staff member(s)    who participated in
    the Consultation

*   Any agreed actions or necessary follow-on work and       agreed schedule

i
i




I


i




I




iI


I
i
i

                                                   ANNEX B2: SAMPLE MITIGATING PLAN
                                                                          AND
                                                        SAMPLE MONTORING PLAN


MITIGATING PLAN


  Phase                 Issue                            Mitigating                     Responsibility*
                                                          Measure
Planning/   - Area includes sites of        Route selection to avoid areas of      Local population must
  Design    significance to human and       significance to human and natural      indicate where such areas
      Design natural environment            environment and migratory bird         are located
             (historical/religious/cultural paths
            value or ecologically
            significant or protected) or    Route selection to follow existing     TEIAS Branch Planning Unit
            high population density         rights-of-way to the greatest extent   and Environment Unit
            clusters,                       possible                               incorporate select route to
                                                                                   avoid these special
                                            Existing access roads should be used   sites/area.
                                            wherever possible. Siting of any
                                            necessary new access roads should
                                            avoid tree cutting or any economically
                                            productive activities as much as
                                            possible (e.g. farm areas)

Construction  Erosion/Silt runoff         Construction planned for dry season            Contractor
                                          to avoid rainy season difficulties such
                                          as: access road construction on water
                                          logged soil

                                          Excavated materials to be deposited
                                          at a designated site designed and
                                          constructed to contain this material
                                          with little or no release to
                                          environment. No disposal of
                                          excavated materials to surface waters
                                          (rivers, lakes, ponds etc.) permitted

                                          Watercourses to be protected from
                                          erosion of exposed soil surfaces
                                          created during land clearing by the
                                          use of silt trapping systems (e.g.
                                          bunds, sediment ponds etc.)
              Interference with local     Construct during non-farming season.     TEIAS Environmental Unit
              economic activities         Appropriate compensation paid for            and Contractor
                                          any loss or damage to local
                                          population

                                          farmland to be restored after
                                          construction
              Alteration of surface water All temporary access roads will be             Contractor
              drainage pattems            decommissioned upon construction
                                          completion

                                          Bunds and sediment ponds
                                          constructed to avoid siltation into
                                          surface waters

  Improper disposal of           Vegetative debris from land clearing              Contractor
 construction debris and         should be recycled or stacked and
 wastes                          burned..

                                 Non-vegetative debris to be disposed
                                 at selected sites properly enclosed to
                                 avoid silt runoff. After construction
                                 disposal site to be restored
  Impacts to land and water      Existing borrow sites and quarries to      TEIAS Environmental Unit,
 from development of new         be used to source aggregates. All                 Contractor
 sources of raw materials        suppliers of raw materials required to
                                 possess valid operating permits
                                 before and for the duration of the time
                                 associated with the project
 Worker health and safety        Health and safety plan to be prepared             Contractor
                                 by contractor and submitted to TEIAS          (Plan Preparation)
                                 Environmental Unit for approval prior
                                 to initiating any work activity            TEIAS Environmental Unit
                                                                                (Plan Approval)
                                 Contractor to include health and
                                 safety training sessions as part of
                                 plan
 Public safety                   Work areas presenting danger to the               Contractor
                                 public (particularly children) are to be
                                 fenced. Other areas are to include
                                 warning signs using danger symbols
                                 for universal understanding
 Aesthetic impact on local                                                        Contractor
 viewscape                       Wherever possible, transmission lines
                                 are to routed along the toe of slopes
                                 where it blends with the background

                                 Towers and transmission lines to be
                                 positioned so that they avoid blocking
                                 the line of sight for points of natural or
                                 man made visual interest (scenic
                                 vistas, monuments, mosques, etc.)
 Dust                            Sprinkle/spray area with water.                  Contractor
                                 Particularly during hot, dry, and windy
_____________________________    conditions

               Noise                      Construction to take place during          Contractor
                                          normal daytime hours

                                          If evening construction required, local
                                          affected people will be consulted at
                                          least one week inadvance of the
                                          proposed activity
               Polychlorinated Biphenyis  Itis forbidden to purchase any             Contractor
               (PCBs)                     electric equipment containing PCBs,
                                          or to purchase any PCBs for use in
                                          any equipment
Operation      Soil, surface and          Operational procedures to be               Contractor
               groundwater                established and implemented for spill
               contamination from oil,    prevention and control

               lubricant, or fuel spills  No PCBs to be used intransformers
               Worker health and safety   Health and safety plan to be prepared       TEIAS
                                          and implemented. Plan to include
                                          safety training and practice drills
*     Items indicated to be the responsibility of the contractor shall be specified in the bid documents

MONITORING PLAN

 Phase          What           Where               How               When        Responsibility
             parameter is        is the           is the              is the
                  to be     parameter to      parameter to      parameter to
             monitored?           be         be monitored!             be
                              monitored?          type of         monitored-
                                                monitoring      frequency of
                                               equipment?      measurement
                                                                        or
                                                                 continuous?
Construct   Erosion/Silt    Construction    Monitor            Daily             TEIAS
           runoff           right-of-way    construction sites                   Environmental Unit
                                            to insure                           And Contractor
                            Cleared areas   mitigation
                                            measures are
                                            installed

                            Surface         Examine surface    During or after
                            waters          waters (visual)    rainstorm
           Interference     Construction    Inspect            Weekly            TEIAS
           with local       right-of-way    transmission line                   Environmental Unit
           economic                         construction area                   And Contractor
           activities                       and nearby
                                            settlements and
                                            agriculture
           Alteration of    Construction    Inspect sediment   Weekly            TEIAS
           surface water    right-of-way   trap systems and                     Environmental Unit
           drainage                         other mitigating                    And Contractor
           patterns                         measures for
                                            proper
                                            installation
           Improper         Construction    Observation of     Continuous        TEIAS
           disposal of      right-of-way   compliance with                      Environmental Unit
           construction                    mitigating                           And Contractor
           debris and       Substation      measures
           wastes           Site           specified in
                                           contract
                            Disposal sites
           Impacts to land At delivery     Review              Before first     TEIAS
           and water from  site of raw     contractor          delivery, and    Environmental Unit
           development of   materials or   operating license   soon after       and contractor
           new sources of   contractor                         renewal date if
           raw materials   offices                             construction is
                                                               still inprogress
           Worker health    Construction   Review health       Before start of  TEIAS
          and safety       right-of-way    and safety plan     construction     Environmental Unit
                                                                                and Contractor
                                           Observe training    Monthly
                                           or other plan
                                           activities
          Public safety    Construction    Observation of      Continuous       TEIAS
                           right-of-way    compliance with                      Environmental Unit
                                           mitigating                           and Contractor
                                           measures
                                           specified in
                                           contract (e.g.
                                           installation of
                                           fences, signs
                                           etc.)
          Aesthetic        Normal          Visual             During            TEIAS
          impact on local  observation                        installation of   Environmental Unit
          viewscape        locations                          structures        and Contractor

             Dust               Construction   Visually            Continuous,      TEIAS
                                right-of-way                       but particularly Environmental Unit
                                                                   during hot, dry, and Contractor
                                Access roads                       windy
                                                                   conditions
                                Wherever
                                construction
                                machinery is
                                being used
             Noise              Population     Observation         Continuous,      TEIAS
                                centers                            but particularly Environmental Unit
                                nearest to                         if there are     and Contractor
                                construction                       coOmplaints
                                sites or where                     from local
                                trucks are                         population
                                passing
             PCBs               At delivery     Review             When             TEIAS
                                site of        certifications of   equipment or     Environmental Unit
                                equipment or    no PCB content     materials are    and Contractor
                                materials                          delivered
Operate      Soil, surface      Substation,     Inspection of      Daily            TEIAS Operating Unit
             and                transformer     transformer for
             groundwater        locations      signs of leaks,
             contamination
             from oil,                          Inspection of soil
             lubricant, or fuel                 area under and
             spills                             near transformer
                                               for discoloration
             Worker health      At worker       Review             Every three      TEIAS
             and safety         sites           implementation     months
                                                of activities
                                                specified in
                                                Health and
                                              I Safety Plan       I



NOTE:         Any item identified in the mitigation plan must have              a corresponding
entry in the monitoring plan. For example, if noise is an           issue presented in the
mitigating plan, than noise should be an item           in the monitoring plan

