                                                Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                       Report No: 29993




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                    ON

                                          A PROPOSEDLOAN

       INTHEAMOUNT OFEURO66MILLION(USD84.3MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                     TO

                                        HIDROELECTRICA S.A.

                              WITH THE GUARANTEE OF ROMANIA


                INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASEOFTHEUS$l,OOO MILLION

             ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE(APL) PROGRAM

                                         DECEMBER23,2004




InfrastructureandEnergySector Unit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region


This document has restricted distribution andmaybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o ftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective December 15,2004)


                                Currency Unit = Romanian Leu (ROL)
                                 ROL29,OOO = US$1



                                       FISCALYEAR
                                   January 1    -    December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANRE           National Energy Regulatory Authority (Romania)
APL            Adaptable Program Loan
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstructionand Development
EC             European Commission
ECSEE          EnergyCommunity of South EastEurope
EIB            European InvestmentBank
EMP            Environmental Management Plan
ETSO           EuropeanTransmission System Operators' Association
EU             European Union
KfW            Bank for Reconstruction(Germany)
MEC            MinistryofEconomyandCommerce (Government ofRomania)
OP             Operational Policy
OPCOM          RomanianElectricity Market Operator
SEE            South East Europe
Transelectrica RomanianNationalTransmission Company
TSO            Transmission System Operator
UCTE           Union or the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity inEurope
USAID          UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment




                               Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
                Country Director for Romania:       Anand Seth
                              Sector Manager:       HenkBusz
                           Task Team Leader:        Kari Nyman

                                                                                        FOROFFICZAL USEONLY
                                             EUROPEAND CENTRAL ASIA
                              EnergyCommunityof South EastEurope(APL1)

                                                                CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                        Page

     A .  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                              .................................................................     1
        1. Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                     1
        2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                        2
        3.  Higherlevelobjectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                       3

      B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                        .................................................................................................      4
        1.  Lending instrument .............................................................................................................                4
        2.  Program objective and Phases .............................................................................................                      4
        3.  Project development objective andkey indicators..............................................................                                    6
        4.  Project components............................................................................................................. 6
        5. Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design............................................................                                     7
        6.  Altematives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                                  8

      C .  IMPLEMENTATION                  ..........................................................................................................        8
        1.  Partnership arrangements....................................................................................................                     8
        2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................................................                                9
        3.  Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes/results ................................................................                                 11
        4.  Sustainability.....................................................................................................................             11
        5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                                12
        6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                              13

      D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
        .                                          .................................................................................................       14
         1. Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                          14
        2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................            15
        3.  Fiduciary ........................................................................................................................... 16
        4.  Social.............................................................................................................          ...................16
         5. Environment......................................................................................................................              17
        6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................                17
         7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                          18

This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                 .

Annex 1: Country. Sector and ProgramBackground                              .............................................................       19

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financed by the Bank and other Agencies                                                   ...................... 27

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                       ........................................................................        28

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description           ......................................................................................          30

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................           31

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                  .................................................................................         32

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                             .....................................    33

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangement              ........................................................................................          38

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                   .............................................................................         41

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues         ............................................................................................          46

Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision                        .....................................................................        48

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File               .................................................................................         50

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                 ..............................................................................         51

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................           53


Map IBRI) 33688

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsectorissues

The improvement o fthe performance of the energy sector is crucial to improve and sustain
economic development inSouth East Europe (SEE). Power supply situation i s projectedto
tighten significantly duringthe next few years and threatens to constrain economic activity and
affect the quality o f life ifnot addressedwith determinedregional action. Apart from Turkey,
investment over the past 10-15 years has been limited, with the average age o f capacity now in
excess of thirty years. Significant capacity additions (of the order of 12,000-15,000 MW) and
plant rehabilitations (of the order o f 8,000-9,000 MW) will be required during the next ten years,
along with matching transmission and distribution system investments ifdemand i s to be met and
severe power shortages and supply interruptions are to be avoided *.

The SEE countries have acknowledgedthat solutions to these regional issues based on isolated
national markets are neither capable nor desirable as a means to attempt to close investment gaps
and emerging demand and supply imbalances. Buildingupon their experience to cooperate in
the power sector, inrecognition of potential gains from increased trade, and as part o f a wider
movement to strengthen regional cooperation, the governments o f SEE countries and the
European Commission (EC) signed the "the Athens Memorandum" -the Memorandum o f
Understanding on the Regional Energy Market inSouth East Europe and its Integration into the
EuropeanUnion Internal Energy Market - on December 8,2003 inAthens, Greece, whereby
they formally expressed their commitment to what i s currently calledthe Energy Community of
South East Europe (ECSEE)       '.

ECSEE's current membershipis as follows:

        0   ECSEE's State Parties are Albania, Bosnia andHerzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia,
            Macedonia, Romania, Serbia and Montenegro, and Turkey;
        0   The United Nations InterimAdministration inKosovo, pursuant to the United
            Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, is anAdheringParty;
        0   The State Parties and the Adhering Party together are ECSEE's RegionalMembers
            (also referred to as the ContractingParties);
        0   EUMemberStatesAustria, Greece, Hungary, Italy, and Sloveniaareparticipants.
            Any other EUMember States can also request to becomeparticipants; and
        0   Neighboringnon-EUMember Statescan request to participate as observers.
            Currently, Moldova i s participating as an observer.

Negotiations are underway to convert the Athens Memorandum into a legally bindingECSEE
Treaty (Section C.2) betweenthe European Commission (on behalf o fthe European Union) and
the Contracting Parties. This project appraisal document reflects the December 3,2004 version
o f the ECSEE Treaty.


1       Reviewofpower demandand supply inSouthEastEurope,WorkingPaperNo. 17, WorldBank,
October2003 andseparateBankstaffestimatesfor Turkey.
2       UntilJune 2004 this initiativewas knownas the SouthEastEuropeRegionalEnergyMarket.


                                                  1

2. Rationalefor Bank involvement

The Bankis participating inregional efforts to promote cooperation and integration inSouth East
Europe and inter alia supports the Stability Pact. A strategy paper was preparedby the Bank in
2000, which lookedat the first decade o ftransition from a regional perspective andmapped a
way forward for a more strategic regional approach. The Banki s an active participant and
promoter o f the Athens process, at the invitation o f the EuropeanCommission. The Bankhas
supported individual countries o f South East Europe intheir efforts to rehabilitate and restructure
their power sectors through policy dialogue, technical assistance and financing since the early
1990s (insome cases even earlier). This deep country knowledge andparticipation inthe
development o f ECSEE inthe Athens process including regional trade strategy work puts the
Bankina strongpositionto provide regional lending,policy advice andtechnical assistanceto
further support the Athens process for ECSEE - the proposed APL program is a key component
of the Bank's support for the Stability Pact and the working partnershipwith the European
Commission.

InMarch2004, the Bankpublisheda strategy paper for energy trade inSouthEast Europe`. The
framework paper outlines the Bank's vision for regional energy market development and defines
its role insupporting the evolution o f regional energy trade. The framework elaborates the
Bank's role insupportingpolicy reform andinstitutional development, and lending for power
generation, transmission, distribution:


     0  Promote a phased approach to market opening, starting with trading based on bilateral
         contracts and third partynetwork access, and moving to a more sophisticated model after
        the institutional framework i s sufficiently developed;
     0   Apply regionalbenchmarkinginpolicy support work with individual countries and as a
         trigger for investment financing;
     0  Develop a special regional instrument -the proposed ECSEE APL - and finance priority
         investments to support development o fthe regional market;
     e  Analytical work to assess the economics o f increasingthe use o f gas inthe SEE countries
         and costs o f compliance with EUenvironmental standards; and
     0   Complete a regional power Generation Investment Study, financed by the EC.

Withinthis regional strategy, the Bank customizes the focus o f its policy support towards most
critical aspects for the development o f an institutional framework for power market liberalization
ineachcountry:


     0   Albania: tariff reform, improvement o fpayments discipline, and strengthening of the
         social safety net;




3       TheRoadto Stability and Prosperity inSouth EastemEurope-A Regional Strategy Study,
World Bank, March2000.
4       World Bank Framework for Development of RegionalEnergy Trade inSouth East Europe, EMT
Discussion Paper No. 12, March 2004.


                                                   2

        Bosnia and Herzegovina: payments discipline, industry restructuring, regulatory
        strengthening, and strengthening o f the social safety net;
        Croatia: industry restructuring;
        Kosovo: sector strategy;
        Macedonia: payments discipline and energy strategy;
        Montenegro: improvement o fpayments discipline, industryrestructuring and regulatory
        development;
        Romania: power market development;
        Serbia: energy legislation, regulatory strengthening, power industry restructuring; and
        Turkey: power market development.

Inaddition, theBankwillworkwithselectedcountries oninstitutionalreforminthegassector,
anddevelopment o fgas distribution concessions. A regionalinvestmentfacility for gas, similar
to the proposed ECSEE APL, will also be considered.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

ECSEE is an integral element o f the Regional Members' andthe European Commission's efforts
for all states inSouth East Europe to have access to stable and continuous energy supply which
they regard as essential for economic development and social stability. The creation o f an area
without internal frontiers for energy contributes to economic and social progress and a highlevel
of employment as well as balanced and sustainable development. These higher level objectives
are expressed inthe ECSEE Treaty.

All SEE countrieshavethe prospect o fEUmembership. Bulgaria andRomania expect tojoin
in2007, andalso Croatia andTurkey are candidate countries. The countriesofWestern Balkans
- the other Regional Members o f ECSEE - are potential candidates to accession (European
Council inCopenhagen inDecember 2002). "The Thessaloniki Agenda for the Western
Balkans: movingtowards European Integration", which was endorsed bythe EuropeanCouncil
inThessaloniki inJune 2003, encourages the regionto adopt alegallybindingenergymarket
agreement. Accordingly, the Member Countries and the Commission are resolved to establish
integratedenergy markets inelectricity and gas based on a common solidarity and consistent
with the rules applicablewithin the EuropeanUnion.

The Stability Pact has made regional energy cooperation one o f its core objectives inits efforts to
strengthen regional cooperationand to foster the conditions for peace, stability and economic
growth inthe South East Europe. The Stability Pact has characterized ECSEE as a unique
political chance for the SEE region, to consolidate reconciliation andprovide a power driver
towards a more comprehensive economic andpolitical integration into the EuropeanUnion.

The Bank supports regional efforts to promote cooperation and integration inSouth East Europe.
ECSEE i s one of the most prominent o f current regional programs. The proposedAPL facility i s
a key component of the Bank's support for the Stability Pact and the working partnership with
the EuropeanCommission.




                                                  3

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

ECSEE is a regional program and it i s proposedthat the Bank investment support be provided
usingthe adaptable program lending (APL)instrument, horizontally on a regionalbasis to
support ECSEE's Regional Members(up to eight countries andKosovo) and vertically (each
Regional Member can inprinciple receive support from more than one APL installment over the
APL programperiod). TheAPL instrument, byvisibly committing substantial resources and
complementing activities supported by other donors, would help ensure the availability o f
adequate resources to fundpriority investments for a functioning electricity market. The APL
instrument would enable the Bank to provide support ina flexible manner-when individual
countries have met the policy triggers (country criteria under the Athens process) and when
individual projects are ready to receive Bank support. All ECSEE Regional Members might not
actuallyborrow under the APL program. However, countries would know up-front that they can
rely on the Bank to support them inachieving the goals o fthe ECSEE ifthey meet specific
eligibility criteria and ifthey need Bank support. The proposed size o f the APL lending facility
is US$l,000 million, o fwhich EUR 66 million (US$84.3 million equivalent) would be approved
to Romania under the proposedAPLl. The ECSEE APL i s detailed inAnnex 1(Section 1).

2. ProgramobjectiveandPhases

The key objectives of the Energy Community o f South East Europe (ECSEE) are:


    0   Create a stable regulatory and market framework capable o f attracting investment to the
        region ingas networks and power system so that all states inthe regionhave access to the
        stable and continuous energy supply that i s essential for economic development and
        social stability;


    0   Establish integrated regional markets inSouth East Europe, closely linkedto the internal
        energy market o f the EuropeanUnion, and fully complying with the rules applicable
        withinthe European Union;


    0   Enhance the energy security o f supply o f South East Europe and the EuropeanUnionby
        providing incentives to connect the Balkans to Caspian and NorthAfrican gas reserves;
        and


    0   Improve the environmental situation inrelation to energy inthe region.

The Member States are committing themselves under ECSEE inter alia to:


    0   Implement the EC Directives 2003/54 (electricity) and 2003/55 (gas) o f the European
        Parliament and o fthe Council, June 26,2003, infull but with a delayed schedule for
        marketliberalizationcomparedto the schedule applicable to EUMember States; and




                                                 4

     0  Progressively align their environmental standards to a highcommon level, including that
        all generating plants starting to operate after the entry into force o fthe forthcoming
        ECSEE Treaty comply with EC standards.


     0  All Regional Members are also expected to accede to the Kyoto Protocol withinone year
        o f the Treaty's effectiveness.

The Bank supports ECSEE ina number o fways, through active participation inECSEE's
implementation organization (described inSection C.2); analytical work including the March
2004 framework paper, the ongoing generation investment study and the gasification study; and
country-level policy dialogue and project work. The proposedregional investment and technical
assistance support under the ECSEE APL is an integral element o f this comprehensive program
o f support. ECSEE APL phasing and triggers are discussed inAnnex 1(Section 1) and
summarizedbelow. They are directly linked to ECSEE and utilize both the horizontal and
vertical features o f the APL instrumentina regional context:

    A country becomes eligible once ithas met ECSEE's basic entry conditions as they were
     defined inthe Athens Memorandum -the ECSEE APL requirements are that an electricity
     sector regulator and a transmission system operator have been established and are
     operational. It is currently expected that all Regional Members would meet this condition by
    mid-2006 at the latest. The beneficiary country o f APL1, Romania, already meets these
    initial conditions and i s eligible for Bank support under the ECSEE APL program;

    A country remains eligible for Bank support under the ECSEEAPL program as long as the
     country signs and ratifies the ECSEE Treaty and meets its key obligations underthe Treaty:

         (a)     signs the ECSEE Treaty;
        (b)      ratifies the Treaty;
        (c)      establishes distributions system operators; and
        (d)      opens its electricity marketto non-household customers.

    For a countryhorrower to be or remain eligible for Bank support under the APL program the
    Bank also needs to be satisfiedthat the countryhorrower has the ability to effectively
    participate inthe regional market. With this trigger, the Bank would reserve the right to
    defer or withhold ECSEE APL support incases where a country might have complied with
    the letter o f its ECSEE Treaty commitments but not have implemented or launched credible
    programs o f other critical measures that are needed for market participation such as, for
     example, reasonable tariffs, adequate bill collection, and systems for electricity market and
    power system operations.

The Commission expects the ECSEE Treaty to be signed inmid-2005. The signingo f the
Treaty is proposed to be applied as a trigger under the ECSEE APL program from January 1,
2006, andits ratification from January 1,2007.

The current version o fthe ECSEE Treaty calls for the establishment o fdistribution system
operators by January 1,2007, and for the opening o f the electricity market to all non-household



                                                   5

customers by January 1,200S5. It i s possible that inthe course o fthe final negotiations o f the
ECSEE Treaty, these ambitious deadlines are adjusted - the Athens Memorandum contained
evenmore aggressive targets which have since beenreviewed and adjusted. The target dates
that will be applied as triggers under the ECSEE APL program will be those incorporated inthe
final version o f the Treaty including derogations and subsequent modifications agreed by the
EuropeanCommission andECSEE Regional Members.

Along with the triggers, projects will have to meet standard Bankrequirements (including
safeguards) andwill have to fit into the country programs (net o fpossible regional IDA).

3. Project development objective and key indicators

The objective o f ECSEE APL is the development o f a functioning regional electricity market in
South East Europe and its integration into the intemal electricity market o f the European Union,
through the implementation o fpriority investments supporting electricity market and power
system operations inelectricity generation, transmission and distribution andtechnical assistance
for institutional/systems development and project preparation and implementation.

The ECSEE APL program would be considered successful ifthe countries inthe region achieve
their commitments under the Athens process and are able to: (a) develop a functioning
electricity market including the agreed market liberalization targets; and (b) integrate it into the
intemal electricity market of the EuropeanUnioninaccordance with the ECSEE Treaty. To
accomplish this, the countries will have to continue ongoing restructuring and reformmeasures,
buildup their institutions andimprove their power systems including interconnections so that
regional trade can increase. The ECSEE APLl would establish the ECSEE APL facility and
provide investment support and technical assistance to Hidroelectrica inRomania. Related
technical assistance support to the electricity regulator ANRE, market operator OPCOM and
transmission system operator Transelectrica is already being provided bythe Bank under the
ongoing Electricity Market Project. The key performance indicators that will be used to assess
the fulfillment o f the ECSEE APL program and ECSEE APLl projects interms o fresults and
outcomes are presented inAnnex 3.

4. Project components

Eligible ECSEE APL project components. The Bank's March 2004 framework paper
concluded that significant investments inpower generation, transmission and distribution and
technical assistance are required for a well-functioning power market. Priority investments and
technical assistance would be financed under the ECSEE APL program so that the ECSEE
Regional Members can effectively participate inthe regional electricity market:




5         This level ofmarket opening is a highly ambitious target- the EUMember Countries themselves
were requiredto reach this target only by July 2004- and may well still be adjusted before the Treaty i s
finalized.  Inthe EUMember States, allcustomers includinghouseholds areto beeligible to choose their
supplier by July 2007. InECSEE, this deadline i s currently set for January 2015 -beyond the ECSEE
APLprogram.


                                                    6

    0   Investments to ensure that ECSEE Regional Member meet the integration requirements
        o f UCTE - the Unionfor the Coordination o f Transmissiono f Electricity inEurope;
    0   Investments to upgrade the capabilities of transmission system operators (TSOs) o f
        ECSEE Regional Members so that they can implement policy decisions to assureregional
        security o f supply. Examples o f such investmentsinclude: (a) upgrading load dispatch
        and real-time system stability andcontrol capabilities; (b) upgrading
        infiastructure/systems for electricity market administration; and (c) removing critical
        bottlenecks intransmissionnetworks and sub-stations;
    0   Investment to restore operational capacity/flexibility o f critical generation facilities that
        provide ancillary services to TSOs, e.g. the proposedAPL 1investment to rehabilitate
        Hidroelectrica's Lotru Hydropower Station inRomania;
    0   Investment inretrofits o f critical generation and/or transmission facilities to assure
        environmental compliance;
    0   Metering and/or telecommunications programs designed to enhance revenue realization
        and/or coordination and communications capabilities o f distribution utilities so that they
        can more effectively participate inthe regional power market; and
    0   A wide rangeoftechnical assistance, for institutional/systemsdevelopment andproject
        preparation and implementation, to support ECSEE Regional Members inenergy market
        design and implementation assistance, inter alia to ensure full compliance with the
        ECSEE frameworWEU directives and compatibility o fmarket designs for the supply of
        balancing services and/or ancillary services across SEE country frontiers; and
        engineering/environmental services for the preparation and implementation o f investment
        projects (including but not limitedto projects financedby the Bank under the ECSEE
        APL) for a functioning electricity market.

APLl investmentprojectis the rehabilitation ofHidroelectrica's Lotruhydropower stationin
Romania. The 510MW hydro power station will be rehabilitated into a reliable source o f
ancillary services for several decades. Details are presented inAnnexes 4-6.

5. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign

Interms ofactual examples, the bestknownregionalpower market isthe Nordicpower market,
knownby the name o f its operator NordPool. It operates inFinland, Norway and Sweden and
part o fDenmark. Portugal and Spain have recently launched ajoint market, and regional power
markets are also under development inSouthern Africa, South-East Asia and Central America,
and they are under discussion inEastem and Western Africa. A key lesson learned from other
markets elsewhere, including NordPool, and from the association o f EuropeanTransmission
System Operators (ETSO) is that the progressive integration o f energy markets inSEE and the
adoptiodimplementation of common security o f supply policies require close attention to be paid
to the design and operation o f subsidiary electricity markets (e.g. balancing and ancillary
services) which are best administered by Transmission System Operators (TSOs).          ECSEE's
implementation organization includes the SEE Transmission System Operators Task Force,
which interacts with ETSO andUCTE to ensure smooth integration and coordination. The role
of the ECSEE Task Force o f TSOs is critical inall phases o f ECSEE's development and
operation.




                                                  7

Political commitment and adequate financial support are key ingredientso f successful reform
programs. ECSEE's development is premisedon the political commitment o f the SEE countries
as expressed inthe Athens Memorandum andthe forthcoming ECSEE Treaty, and it is backed
byan exceptionally strongdonor involvement. The APL programhasbeendirectly linkedto
ECSEE, with no additional conditionality. Investment component included inAPL1 is and
components to be supported under subsequent APL installments will be o fproven design and
streamlined approaches emphasizingturnkey contracting will be employed intheir
implementation.

6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

The Bank supports the countries o f SouthEast Europe intheir efforts to rehabilitate and
restructure their power sectors through regular single-country operations. This approach will
continue and it was also considered for ECSEE but was rejected, infavor o f a regional approach
to support ina visible and coordinated manner this ambitious regional program. The APL
instrument gives the Bank the flexibility to match its JBRD and IDA commitments to the pace of
its clients. The use o f a regular investment loan instrument would have requiredthe Bank to
commit the full US$1.O billion APL amount upfront andwould similarly have required the
borrowers to assume these debt obligations well ahead o f beingable to actually utilize the funds.
All SEE countries would know up-front that they canrely on the Bankto support them in
achieving the goals of the ECSEE when they meet specific eligibility criteria and when they need
Bank support. Regional approach, andthe regular monitoring andregionalbenchmarkingthat
will take place inthe ECSEE process, will provide higher publicity and awareness, peer support,
and also peer pressurehncentives for countries to improve performance so as to avoid falling
behind other ECSEE members. The use o f the APL instrumentalso enable to launch the ECSEE
APL facility to support ECSEE aheadof theratification of the ECSEE Treaty and apply market
liberalization targets as triggers infuture APL installments as such targets are agreed, including
derogations and subsequent modifications that may be agreed betweenthe European
Commission andECSEE Regional Members.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnership arrangements

Firstand foremost, ECSEE is a partnership among the SEE countries. They have acknowledged
that solutions to pressingregional issues based on isolated national markets are neither capable
nor desirable as a means to attempt to close investment gaps and emerging demand and supply
imbalances. Second, ECSEE is a partnership betweenthe SEE countries and the European
Union. The European Commission signed the Athens Memorandum as a participant and will
also be a signatory to the ECSEE Treaty. Neighboring Austria, Italy and Greece signed the
Memorandum as "political participants to the Athens process" and Hungary and Slovenia (which
signed as observer^^^) have sincejoined the EUand become political participants. Finally,
ECSEE i s a partnership between the SEE countries and the donors including the Bank.
Financial institutions and bilateral donors include the EuropeanBank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD), the EuropeanInvestment Bank (ED), the GermanDevelopment Bank




                                                  8

(KfW),the UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment (USAID), the CanadianAgency
for International Development (CIDA), and France, Greece, Italy, and Switzerland.

The region and the European Commission are currently negotiating to formalize their partnership
into a legally bindinginternationalEnergy Community o f South East Europe Treaty (ECSEE
Treaty). The Council o f the European Union authorized the Commission inJune 2004 to open
suchnegotiations, on behalf o fthe EuropeanUnion. The negotiations started inJuly 2004.
ECSEE's Ministerial Council concludedon December 13,2004 that there i s broad agreement on
the substance o f the Treaty and directed their negotiators to conclude remaining details as soon
as possible. The current time-table calls for the signing o fthe Treaty inmid-2005 and
ratification i s expected by mid-2006. The Treaty i s proposed to become effective when the
EuropeanUnion and a majority o f the Regional Members have ratified it. This schedule is
reflected inthe proposed vertical triggers o fthe ECSEE APL, with 6-month contingency
provisions: signing by end-2005 andratification by end-2006 (Section B.2). Upon accession to
the EU, Regional Members (signatories o f the Treaty) will automatically cease to be Regional
Members andbecome participants. As members o f the European Union, participants are
requiredto meet more demanding electricity market liberalization targets than those set for
ECSEE and they will remain eligible to borrow under the ECSEE APL facility.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

A comprehensive coordination and implementationmechanismhas beenestablished for the
development o f ECSEE. The mechanism covers andbrings together political and administrative
leadership, regulators, transmission system operators andother utilities, the European
Commission, international financial institutions andbilateral donors:


    0   ECSEE's MinisterialCounciltakes place annually with the participation o f the
        Ministers o f Energy o f the countries andthe Commissioner for Energy and Transport of
        the European Commission. The Council takes strategic decisions and gives guidance to
        ECSEE and, where necessary, formally reviews the conclusions o f other ECSEE
        bodiedmeetings including the Forum. Once the ECSEE Treaty i s ineffect, the Council
        will report annually on ECSEE's activities to the EuropeanParliament and to the
        Parliaments ofECSEE's Regional Members;


    0   ECSEE's PermanentHigh Level Group i s composed o f representatives o f the Ministers
        of Energyo fthe countries and the European Commission. The group meets, when
        necessary, on the initiative o f the Commission and the Presidency in Office, inorder to
        prepare the Ministerial Council and to ensure the follow-up o f its decisions;


    0   Two Task Forces have been established for ECSEE preparatory work and day-to-day
        coordination and cooperation: (1) the SEE Energy Regulators Task Force, which works
        closely with the Council o f EuropeanEnergy Regulators (CEER); and (b) the SEE
        Transmission System Operators Task Force, which interacts with the European
        Transmission System Operators (ETSO) andthe Union for the Coordination o f
        Transmission o f Electricity inEurope (UCTE);




                                                 9

        ECSEEForummeets at least twice yearly. Itcomprises o frepresentatives o fthe
        governments, regulators andtransmission system operators o fthe countries, CEER,
        ETSO, UCTE, producing companies, consumers, the European Commission, the Stability
        Pact, and donors including the Bank;


     0   Several donors support ECSEE (Section C.1). Donors are members o f the ECSEE Forum
         andusually the donor agencies also meet separately inconnection with the Forum
        meetings. The Stability Pact assigned the role o f coordinating the donors to the
        EuropeanCommission in2001. The Commissionretains the overall co-ordination, setting
        politicalhechnical goals and organizing donors. The Commission i s fundingan Athens
        Process secretariat, based inAthens, to support the process, inter alia, benchmarking and
        monitoring; and


     0  The Ministerial Council, the Permanent HighLevel Group and the Forum are already
        operational and they would be recognized inthe ECSEE Treaty. Inaddition, two new
        bodies, a Regulatory Board and a Regulatory Secretariat, would be set up under the
        Treaty:

         (a) The Regulatory Board would monitor the implementation o f all statutory, technical
        andregulatory rules andwouldreport directly to the Council. The Regulatory Board,
        would be composed of one representative o f the energy regulators o fthe Regional
        Members. The European Commissionwould represent the European Union, assisted by
        one regulator o f each Participant; and

        (b) The Regulatory Secretariat wouldmonitor ECSEE's development, inparticular the
         functioning of the energy market and the promotion o f common security o f supply
        policies. The Secretariat would assist the Council, the HighLevel Group, the Forum and
        the Regulatory Board.

Romania/Hidroelectrica. The Lotruproject will be implemented by Hidroelectrica. It i s one
o f the successor companies of Romania's nationalpower company Renel, which was
restructuredand unbundledin 1998-2000 into Hidroelectrica (hydro power generator),
Termoelectrica (thermal generation), Nuclearelectrica (nuclear power), Transelectrica
(transmission and system operations) and Electrica (electricity distribution and supply).
Hidroelectricaowns and operates 345 hydro power plants and 5 pumpingstations with a total
capacity o f 6,288 MW, accounting for about % o f Romania's power supply andmost o f the
ancillary services to Transelectrica, the system operator.

Inaccordance withthe Romaniangovernment's energy strategy (the RoadMap, July2003),
following the unbundling,the Government has launchedan ambitious program for the
substantial privatization o f the power sector. The first two o f the country eight electricity
distribution companies have beenprivatized (transaction being finalized with Bank support using
the partial risk guarantee instrument) and the other six are to be privatized by 2006. Three major
thermal power companies have been created from within Termoelectrica and are to beprivatized
in2005. Theseprivatizations are supported bythe Bankunder the ProgrammaticAdjustment




                                                 10

Loan (PAL)      program. The PALprogram also includesthepreparationo f a strategy for private
sector participation inhydro generation, including review o f options for private sector
participation inthe implementationo f some o fthe projects o fHidroelectrica andthe
privatization o f selected plants o fHidroelectrica. Romania's power sector is discussed further in
Annex 1(Section 2).

3. Monitoringandevaluationof outcomes/results

At the regional level, the ECSEEAPLprogramwill continue to be included (as its concept work
has already been included) inthe established mechanism for ECSEE coordination - Ministerial
Council, Permanent High-level Group, Task Forces, and the Forum (Section C.2). The project
will benefit from this elaborate, active and well-functioning mechanism for coordination,
monitoring and evaluation. The new Regulatory Secretariat will provide an institutional
mechanism for the regular monitoring of the countries' performance against agreed benchmarks.
At the country level, investmentprojects will beincluded innationalprograms which will be
monitoredby the ECSEE coordination mechanism. The Bank will continue to participate inthe
Athens process including the Forum and will also directly supervise the individual country
projects.

4. Sustainability

The current situation and the key dimensions o fthe short- and long-term vision for a sustainable
electricity market canbe briefly outlined as follows:

0   ECSEEParticipants: The mainutilities inthe region are already engaged inpower trading,
    which provides the basis for further development. The next steps will be bilateral contracts
    involvingunbundled utilities and large customers; followed by expanding trade as electricity
    markets ineach country are further opened and additional customers become eligible and
    start exercising the freedom to choose their electricity supplier;


0   Market Sophistication: Some o fthe countries including Romania are already developing
    day-ahead markets (operated by market operators) andreal-time balancing mechanisms
    (operated by system operators). Over time such markets andmechanisms will become
    increasingly standard; and further sophisticationwill be developed, including intra-day and
    real-time balancingmarkets and financial instruments (possibly starting with a contract
    exchange);


0   Competition: Current utility-to-utility contracts and other exchanges are typically
    cooperative and competition i s not their key objective. As industry unbundlingdeepens and
    inline withmarket openingacross the region, contracting andtrading will become
    increasingly competitive. However, transmission system operators will continue to
    coordinate on a cooperative basis, as members of ETSO and inthe framework o f the UCTE;




6       The first Programmatic Adjustment Loan(PALI) was approved on September 16,2004. PAL2
and PAL3 are expected to follow by end-2005 and end-2006, respectively.


                                                  11

0  Integrationof ECSEEinto the European Union Internal Energy Market: Croatia and a
   part o f Bosnia and Herzegovinahad already been interconnected andtheir power systems
    operated synchronously and as a part o f the main European power system administered by
   UCTE. The rest o f South East Europe (except Turkey) was synchronously interconnected
    on October 10,2004, following the completion o f rehabilitationinCroatia andBosnia of
    facilities required for the synchronous interconnection o fthe whole region with the main
    Europeanpower system. Additional transmission links to the EUcountries will be
    developed. They include a second connection betweenRomania and Hungary (withEBRD
    financing for implementation), and second connections betweenSerbia and Hungary and
    Croatia and Hungary, and a connection between Croatia and Italy/Slovenia (the last three
    interconnections are candidates for financing under the ECSEE APL). Through integration
    the region will secure access to a major trading partner and an important import source to
    meet possible electricity shortfalls and emergency support. This highlights the
    electricity/economy dimension inECSEE's integration into the European Union internal
    energy market.

5. Critical risks and possible controversialaspects

ECSEE has been developed and is being implemented through a comprehensive coordination
and implementation mechanism (explained in Section C.2). It has gone through extensive
discussion and debate. The Bank's work inthe ECSEE context, published inthe recent
framework paper (footnote 4), has highlighted risks and contributed to risk mitigationmeasures.
Risksarebeingminimized by adoptinga gradual approachto market opening andvoluntary
approach to trading. Though market is being opened, meaning an increasingnumber o f
electricity consumers will become eligible to choose their electricity supplier, trading i s not
mandatory but voluntary between willing sellers andwilling buyers - customers inindividual
countries need not and are not expected to move at the same pace. The pace of liberalization
may nevertheless trigger controversy. Adjustments can be accommodated inthe finalization of
the ECSEE Treaty, including derogations and subsequent modifications inaccordance with the
practice o f the EuropeanCommission.

Potential controversies can be occasionally expected inthe development o f new generation
capacity, where individual countries may propose projects that are not necessarily optimal
choices inthe regional context, interms o f size, fuel choice, location or commissioning schedule.
ECSEE implementationmechanismprovides a number o f venues to discuss and resolve such
issues, including the Ministerial Council as the final step. The Bank-administeredcurrently
ongoing generation investment study is expected to help identify the highest priority regional
projects, inpart facilitating the resolution o fpotential disputes.

Another potential area for controversy, also mainly inthe area o fpower generation, is the
progressive upgrading and implementation o f environmental legislation incountries that do not
have short-term prospects o f EUaccession. The Regional Members are to progressively align
their environmental standards and specifically, new generation plants starting to operate after the
ECSEE Treaty i s ineffect have to comply with the relevant EC standards, and the countries are
expected to accede to the Kyoto Protocol. The potential controversy i s not about the desirability




                                                  12

of these objectives but their affordability - this is an area where the region will require assistance
from the international community.

It must be emphasizedthat the SEEregion faces a fundamental risk o fnot being able to meet the
growing demand for electricity. ECSEE i s the regarded as the best possible mitigation measure
for that risk, which ifmaterialized, would threaten the economic growth prospects and affect the
quality o f life inthe region. Through ECSEE - a regional market o f countries with harmonized
and EU-compatible legislation and institutions underpinnedby a legally bindinginternational
Treaty - the regionwill develop an EU-compatible regional market and thereby represent a much
larger and more attractive investment destination to prospective investors. Integrationo fECSEE
into the internal energy market o fthe European Unionwill not only provide the region
opportunities to export energy into the Community, but to also import energy to help meet
shortfalls, including system emergency situations.

Plant-by-plant costs o f electricity generation vary within countries and across the region. Ina
regional market and as market liberalization advances, customers that exercise their freedom to
choose their supplier will naturally seek competitive suppliers. This will put pressure on higher
cost and less competitive suppliers to improve their performance. But there is also potential for
controversy: (a) some o f the most uncompetitiveplants may be forced to close; and (b) some of
the less attractiveheliable customers may endup payingmore for their electricity as
generatorshppliers will prefer to sell to more creditworthy clients, possibly located inother
countries. Inprinciple these kinds o fpotential controversies are part o f any functioning market.
However, it i s expected that countries will seek to mitigate some o f the impacts inthe transition
period by managing the initialpower contracting process. The projectedtightening electricity
demand and supply situation inthe region will also provide more time for the higher cost
generators to improve their performancebefore competition increases along with new
investment. However, for the same reason, tightening demand/supply outlook, less creditworthy
consumers will find it increasingly difficult to secure power supply. This should provide a
powerful momentum to improve payment discipline.

All APL investmentprojects are expected to useproven designs and are not expected to contain
any particular risks or controversial aspects. This isthe case inthe APLl project. Under
Romania's Lotruproject, an undergroundpower station will be rehabilitated andrestored to its
original capacity.

6. Loan conditionsand covenants

As discussed inSectionB.2, the ECSEE APL is directly linkedto the countries' commitments
under ECSEE. No other triggers would be applied (including non-compliancewith undertakings
under ongoingnationalprojects as longas they do not directly affect countries' participation in
ECSEE). Triggers would not be applied to loandcredits already approved. As an example, a
loan or credit approved as part o f APLl or APL2 would not have conditions (equivalent to dated
covenants) about the country having to meet future triggers (that apply to APL3, or APL4-5) and
a possible failure to meet such future triggers would notjeopardize the implementation of
projects that are under implementation. APL projects would have financial targets for utilities
(Annex 9 presents APL1 targets), financial management covenants (Annex 7 presents APL1



                                                   13

FMS arrangements) and undertakings about safeguards, such as the implementation o f
environmental managementplans and dam safety inspections (Annex 10presents APLl
requirements).

Romania already meets the initial ECSEE conditions and the APL1project complies with Bank
safeguard policies. Going beyondthe initial eligibility criteria, Romania has already started the
liberalization o f its electricity market and i s expected to continue the opening ahead o f the
ECSEE deadlines. Romania's current level o fmarket opening is 55%. The Romanian
government's energy strategy (the RoadMap) sets July 2007 as the target date for full opening of
the electricity market to all consumers.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses

The benefits o f regional power trade ingeneral and trade benefits inthe SEE region specifically
have been studiedby Argonne National Laboratories sponsored byUSAID and the sector work
underpinningthe APL program (footnote 4). A preliminary estimate is that ifSEEwere to
operate as a regionally integrated system dispatching on a least cost basis, operating costs could
be reducedby 11-15%. There would be additional cost savings relating to capital, for example,
through exports from surplus to deficit countries, and sharing o freserve. Inthe short term,
savings would be reflected inlower prices where these are currently relatively high, and
increased net revenues for utilities with the potential for increased exports. Inthe longer term,
integratedoperation would lead to lower prices than ina limited trade scenario.

Some benefits from electricity trade are already being realized inthe region. The main exporters
inthe regionareBosnia andHerzegovina, Bulgaria andRomania. Some ofthe countries have
substantial hydro power capacity, while others rely more on thermal, and two have also nuclear
power plants. The March2004 framework paper discusses the country-by-county situation.
This mix o f hydrokhermal mix enhances the prospects for efficiency improvement and cost
savings through regional cooperation. There is also scope for power trade between SEE and its
neighbors, and indeed, one o f ECSEE's key objectives is that the SEE energy market will be
integratedinto the EUinternal energy market. From a technical point o f view, this would be
feasible given that power systems inEurope and SEE operate according to common technical
standards established by UCTE, andthat SEE will shortly be reintegratedwith the European
grid. Significant potential benefits exist given noncoincidentalpeak load periodsbetween
Russia and SEE, but synchronizing systemoperation between the eastern neighbors such as
UkraineRussia and SEE would be a major challenge. A near-term option to increase trade
would be to develop links through Moldova, to allow power transfer at least initially with
asynchronous system operation, and this is beingdiscussed betweenRomania and Moldova.

Romania/Hidroelectrica finances. Details inAnnex 9. Hidroelectrica i s the lowest cost
generator inthe Romanianpower system. Inaccordance with Government policy, the electricity
regulator ANRE kept hydro tariffs at a very low level until late 2003. The policy provided for
tariff revenues to Hidroelectrica set to enable it to cover its day-to-day operations, but no self-
financing  for investment. Inthe meantime, ANRE carried out rapid adjustments inthe retail



                                                    14

tariffs, but assigned the increasingrevenues to Tennoelectricaby adjusting its rates for thermal
generation, to bringTermoelectrica to cost recovery level andreduce the Government's quasi-
fiscal deficit. This strategy was supported by the Bank andthe IMF.

InMarch2004, at therequest ofthe Government, theBankreviewedRomania's electricity
tariffs inclose operationwith ANRE and inter alia recommended that Hidroelectrica's tariff for
the regulated market be doubled by January 2005, to a still low level o f about U S cents 2/kWh.
The Bank and ANRE agreed inprinciple that such tariff action i s necessary for Hidroelectrica to:
(a) meet its financial obligations; (b) start generating internal funds for investments (including
completion o fprojects initiated years ago which had stalled due to lack o f funds); and (c) be
properly integrated into the liberalizing electricity market -where the level o fmarket opening
was raised 55% inNovember 2004 and is set to reach 100%inJuly 2007. ANRE implemented
this tariff adjustment intwo stages through its June and December 2004 tariff orders, and
Hidroelectrica's average tariff revenue will be about US cents 2.2/kWhfrom January 2005.
Withthese adjustments, Hidroelectrica reached a sound andgenerally satisfactory financial
position, and the functioning o f the electricity market was greatly facilitated. This strategy is
also supported by the IMF.

Inadequate bill collection had been a major financial issue inthe power sector. With support
from the Bank (under PSAL and PSAL2) and the IMF(under its Stand-By Arrangements), the
Government and the distribution utility Electrica have progressively and ultimately successfully
addressed this issue. For the whole o f 2003, Electrica achieved a bill collection rate o f 99%.
Similar accomplishment has been achieved inthe gas sector, where the two distribution utilities
reached a bill collection rate o f 100% for 2003. Highlysatisfactory collection rates have been
maintained in2004, andwith the distribution privatization now underway (Annex 1, Section 2),
highcollection rates are expectedto bemaintainedalso inthe future.

2. Technical

The transmission system inthe SEE region meets the minimumrequirements for a regional
market,now that the rehabilitation projects inCroatia andBosnia andHerzegovina (the latter
underthe Bank's Power I11Project) havebeencompleted facilitating the synchronous
interconnection o f the whole region with the main European power system on October 10,2004.
Additional interconnections, within the region andwith the EuropeanUnion, will be required to
accommodate the projected increasing power flows. The APL program will support some of
these additional projects, and other donors participating inthe Athens process will support others
-activedonorcoordinationisaimedatensuringthathighestpriorityprojectswillgetfunded.
The countries andtheir utilities, even with the help o f the donors, will not by themselves be able
to fund all necessary generation investments required to meet the growing demand for electricity
inthe region. Privateinvestment will have to bemobilizedandthat isone o fECSEE's
fundamental goals -the creation o f a hnctioningregional market, with a stable regulatory and
market framework capable o f attracting private investment.




                                                  15

3. Fiduciary

The Bank's standard fiduciary requirements apply also to the projects andutilities supported
under the ECSEE APL program. Lendingunder the ECSEE APL program will be through IBRD
loans and IDA credits to individual countries. The Bank will review the financial management
systems of the executing agencies and audit reports will be requiredto be submitted.
Procurementwill be inaccordance with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement and Bank
Guidelines for he Use o f Consulting Services will apply. It is possible that, within applicable
guidelines, the Bank may agree that borrowers' FMS and/or procurement systems be utilized,
takinginto account experience from other projectswhere such approaches are piloted. The
proposed APLl loanto Romania does not feature such use o f country systems. Standard
fiduciary and procurement arrangements will be applied (Annexes 7-8 present APLl
arrangements).

4. Social

ECSEE's overall social impact is positive. The common objective o fthe parties adhering to the
Athens Memorandum o fUnderstanding is to stimulate economic growth and investment inSouth
East Europe by improvingthe availability, efficiency andreliability o fnetwork energy sources at
reasonable cost. The draft ECSEE Treaty states that the Regional Members and the Commission
are determined to achieve economic and social progress and a high level o f employment as well
as balanced and sustainable development through the creation o f an area without internal
frontiers for energy. All SEE countries have the prospect o f EUmembership and the European
Commission had made participation inECSEE a de-facto accession condition. The Stability
Pact has characterized ECSEE as a unique political chance for the SEE region, to consolidate
reconciliation and provide a power driver towards a more comprehensive economic andpolitical
integration into the EuropeanUnion. The overall social impact o f improvingpower supply;
mitigating environmental impacts o fthe power sector; supporting growth, investment and
employment; and facilitating EUaccession i s positive.

All countries inthe SEE region are implementing reforms intheir energy andpower sectors,
which inter alia involve tariff adjustments towards full cost recovery and financial discipline
including bill collection. This raises the issue o f social protection, to ensure that low-income
households have access to electricity. ECSEE does not contain additional financial targets or
conditions, but reinforces these ongoing national efforts. The Treaty calls for the provision o f
electricity to all citizens at a reasonable price level that nevertheless allows for adequate cost
recovery and reinvestment.

Romania. The Lotruproject does not involve social issues. No land acquisition or resettlement
is required. Access to reliable electricity is a key driver o f economic growth and a direct means
of reducing poverty by improving the productivity o fhouseholds and enhancing the delivery o f
social services. Romania has virtually universal electricity service coverage and the tariff system
includes a functioning mechanism to support low-income households. The challenge is to
maintain andimprove the quality o f this extensive service. The Government has concluded that
along with its ongoing ambitious privatization program, active participation inECSEE is
essential to maintain such service.



                                                    16

5. Environment

ECSEE's overall environmental impact is positive. ECSEE accelerates the introduction of EU-
compatible environmental legislationand standards inthe SEE region. Two specific
requirements are particularly noteworthy: (a) new generation plants starting to operate after the
ECSEE Treaty is ineffect have to comply with the relevant E C standards; and (b) all Regional
Members are expectedto accede to the Kyoto Protocolwithin one year o f the Treaty's
effectiveness.

This is an area where the region will require assistance from the intemational community. The
APLprogramisonepotentialsource ofsuchassistance,for example for the rehabilitationand
upgrading o f power generation facilities to improve their operational and environmental
performance. N e w generation projects will not be financed under the APL program, but the
World Bank Group will consider such projects separately, inparallel with the APL program. For
Turkey, a project for environmental upgrading o f Afsin-Elbistan Power Plant is included inthe
FY05 lendingprogram.

Romania/Lotru. Lotru is an existing hydro power development on the Lotru river. Itwas built
inthe 1960s/early 1970sandcommissionedin1972-75. The source ofwater for the hydroplant
i s the Vidra reservoir. The condition and continued safety o f the Vidra dam is under continuous
monitoring and regular maintenance andthe dam is ingood condition. At the same time, after
three decades o f demanding heavy-duty operation as the key provider o f ancillary services, the
hydro plant's electro-mechanical equipment is overdue for extensive rehabilitation. The
rehabilitation of the Lotru station will have only minor environmental impacts. The station is
located about 140meters underground. The main impact is the disposal o f equipment replaced
under the project. An Environmental Management Plan(EMP) has beenprepared, public
consultations have been held. It has been cleared by the Bank and submitted to the Infoshop.

6. Safeguard policies

   Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                          Yes             No
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                             [XI              [ I
   Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                         [ I            [XI
   Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                             [I             [XI
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)               [ I            [XI
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                [XI              [ I
   Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                [ I            [XI
   Forests (OP/BP4.36)                                                   [ I            [XI
   Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                         [XI              [ I
   Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP7.60)                               [ I            [XI
   Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                  [XI              [I

The classification o fthe APLprogram is FI. APLl was ratedFIwhen the project elements had
not yet been identified. RomanidLotruis a B-category project. Most o fthe country-level
investment projects are expected to be B-category projects. However, individual country-level



                                                 17

investment projects included inthe later installments o fthe APL program may contain
components that would be rated into the A-category or C-category.

The proposed financing o fthe rehabilitation o f the Lotruhydro project triggers OP 4.37 on Dam
Safety. Romania's and Hidroelectrica's dam safety laws, regulation and arrangements, in
general and as applied to the Vidra dam, and Hidroelectrica's undertakings regarding Vidra dam
duringthe implementation o fthe project, are satisfactory withrespect to OP 4.37 (see also
Annex 10, Section 1). The Lotruproject also triggers OP 7.50 on Projects inInternational
Waterways. Since the Lotruhydro plant is located on the Lotru river,which flows into the Olt
River, which inturnflows into Danube, an international waterway inEurope, OP 7.50 applies,
even ifthe Olt River and its tributaryLotruRiver flow within Romania. An exemption from the
notification requirement under OP 7.50 has been granted: the Lotruproject does not involve
works and activities that would exceed the original scheme, change its nature, or alter and
expand its scope and extent to make it appear a new or different scheme, and will therefore not
adversely affect the quality or quantity o fwater flows to the other riparians (see also Annex 10,
Section 1).

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

Nopolicy exceptions are sought. The project is ready for financing.




                                                 18

                        Annex 1:Country,Sector andProgramBackground
    EUROPEAND CENTRAL ASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)


    1. ECSEEAPL

The proposedApproach for AdaptableProgramLending(APL)for ECSEE. The key policy and
institutional elements for an APL program have been definedand established. The Energy Community
of South East Europe (ECSEE) is a regional program, with strong country commitment and with well-
established coordination mechanisms at the highest political level, at the level o fregulators and
transmission companies inthe region, as well as among donors supportingthe program, plus a the ECSEE
Forumwhich brings them all together with other stakeholders.

ECSEE is a regional program and it i s proposedthat the Bank investment support be provided usingthe
APL instrument, horizontally on aregionalbasis (to support upto eight countries andKosovo) and
vertically (each country can inprinciple receive support from more than one APL installment over the
APL programperiod). An APL would enable the Bankto provideregionalfinancial support to aregional
program, yet financing could be tailored to the needs o f individual countries to help them meet their
commitments to ECSEE.

APLl presents the ECSEEprogramandthe first two individual countryprojectsthatthe Bankwould
finance. APLl would be presented to the Board - the Board approves all first-phase APLs under regular
procedures. The approval o f subsequent APL phases i s delegated to the President and exercised by the
Regional Vice Presidents under the oversight o f the Managing Director. Subsequent country projects
(following the approval o fthe APL program when APLl i s approved) would be processed each at its own
pace andwhen ready, each PAD would be submitted for approval by ECA's Vice President. Each PAD
would be circulated to the Board for information after Managementapproves the follow-on operation in
principle. Management approval becomes effective 10 working days thereafter, unless at least three
Executive Directors request a regular Board discussion duringthe 10-day time period. Each
country/project could proceed at its own pace and not be held back by the Bank needing to combine
several projects for the purpose o f processing or approval.

APLs typically have 3-5 phases. Inthe case o fthe proposed ECSEE APL, APL1 would cover the first
two projectsapproved together with the APL program, APL2 phase would cover other country projects
approved within FY05 (assuming APL1 i s approved by midFY05 - ifnot, then APLl alone could cover
FY05), APL3 phase would cover country projects approved inFY06, and APL4-5 phaseprojects
approved inFY07-08 -this phasingprovides for a four-year program (FY05-FY08). Each APL
installmentwould have an implementation period upto five years. The implementation o f some o f the
projects inAPL5 could continue untilFYO13.

APL Triggers. Two sets o f triggers would apply under the APL. Policytriggerswould determine the
eligibility of an individual country to receive Bank assistance under the APL program. Project triggers
would determine when an individual investment i s eligible to receive Bank funds.

         PolicyTriggers

A fundamental eligibility criterion for a country to qualify for Bank support is the signingo fthe Athens
Memorandum- all prospective clients signed the Memorandum on December 8,2003 and thereby they
all meet this requirement (the Athens Memorandum i s the base document o f the ECSEE).



                                                     19

Horizontally under the regional APL, a country becomes eligible to borrow once ithas met ECSEE's
basic entry conditions as they were definedinthe Athens Memorandum-the ECSEE APL requirements
are that an electricity sector regulator and atransmission system operator have been established and are
operational. Iti s currently expected that all RegionalMemberswould meet this conditionby mid-2006
at the latest. The beneficiary country of APL1, Romania, already meets this condition and i s eligible for
Bank support under the ECSEEAPL program.

Vertically, a country remains eligible for Bank support under the ECSEEAPL program as long as the
country signs andratifies the ECSEE Treaty and meets its key obligations under the Treaty:


     0    signs the ECSEETreaty;
     0    ratifies the Treaty;
     0    establishes distributions system operators; and
     0    opens its electricity market to non-household customers.

For a countryhorrower to be or remain eligible for Bank support under the APL programthe Bank also
needs to be satisfiedthat the countryhorrower has the ability to effectively participate inthe regional
market. With this trigger, the Bank would reserve the right to defer or withhold ECSEE APL support in
cases where a country might have complied with the letter of its ECSEETreaty commitments butnot
have implemented or launched credible programs of other critical measuresthat are needed for market
participation such as, for example, reasonabletariffs, adequatebillcollection, and systems for electricity
market and power system operations.

The Commissionexpects the ECSEE Treaty to be signed inmid-2005. The signingo f the Treaty is
proposed to be applied as a trigger under the ECSEE APL program from January 1,2006, and its
ratification from January 1,2007.

The current version ofthe ECSEETreaty calls for the establishment ofdistribution systemoperators by
January 1, 2007, and for the opening o f the electricity market to all non-household customers by January
1, 2008   7,Itis possible that inthe courseofthe finalnegotiations ofthe ECSEETreaty, these ambitious
deadlines are adjusted - the Athens Memorandumcontained even more aggressive targets which have
since been reviewedand adjusted. The target datesthat will be applied as triggers under the ECSEE APL
programwill be those incorporated inthe final version o fthe Treaty includingderogations and
subsequent modifications agreedbythe European Commissionand ECSEE Regional Members.

Triggerswill not be applied to loansfcredits already approved. As an example, a loanor credit approved
as part o f APL1or APL2 will not have conditions (equivalent to dated covenants) about the country
havingto meet future triggers (that apply to APL3, or APL4-5) and apossible failure to meet such future
triggers will notjeopardize the implementation ofprojects that are underimplementation.




7         This level ofmarket opening is ahighlyambitious target -the EUMember Countries themselves
were requiredto reach this target only by July 2004 and may well still be adjusted before the Treaty i s
                                                      -
finalized.   Inthe EUMember States, allcustomers includinghouseholds areto beeligible to choose their
supplier by July 2007. InECSEE, this deadline is currently set for January 2015 -beyond the ECSEE
APLprogram.


                                                      20

         CAS Framework

Bank assistance to the individual projects will be committed through loans and credits to individual
countries within the Country Assistance Strategies:

     (a)      By signingthe Athens Memorandum, countries have signaled their commitment to the
         regional market. This does not automatically mean that each country would be interestedin
         borrowing from the BanWIDA - as o f September 2004, Bulgaria and Croatia have not shown
         strong interest;

     (b)      There mightbe cases where the country program cannot accommodate additional projects.
         IDA countriesare expectedto be able to get additionalIDAresources for their participationina
         regional program'.      Apart from such possible additional allocations due to the regional nature of
         the APL program, all IBRDloans and IDA credits will have to be considered inthe CAS
         frameworks and limits o f the country programs.

Compliance by the recipient country/utility o f its commitments under ongoing Bank operations inthe
powedenergy sector will not be an additional trigger. The use o f the APL program as an additional
leverage to address issues under ongoing operations will be limitedto areas where non-compliance affects
the utility's ability to participate inthe regional electricity market, for two reasons: (a) to retain strong
regional approach and focus on ECSEE; and (b) to keep the implementation o f the APL program
manageable. -- This approach is inline with the IDA pilot program for regional projects (footnote 8) ,
which calls for flexibility even when a country is inarrears to the Bank, ifits participation is crucial to the
success o f a regional project.

Components for BankFinancing. The Bank has prepared a strategy for Bank support for regional
energy trade under an ongoing ESW activity. The ESW highlightsthat significant investments are
required inpower generation, transmission and distribution for a well-functioning power market. At the
outset, the Bank would be prepared to consider a broad range o f investments for support under the APL
program.

(a) Power Generation. Major new generation projects are not proposed for Bank financing under this
APL program: (a) Regionalprioritization ofpossibleprojectsisnotyet available. Itwillbeestablished
under a recently launched study (one o f the Bank's contributionsto ECSEE is the administration of this
study, at the request o f the European Commission); and (b) Bank Group participation insuch large
projects i s better dealt with on a case-by-case basis due to their large financing needs. However, the
Bank would be prepared to consider plant rehabilitationsin cases where the priority and cost-
effectiveness o f the renovations can be readily established. Such projects offer one o f the best
approaches to provide ancillary services to power system operators (ancillary services include all services
other than the production o f energy provided by generators necessary for the operation o f the power
system, such as frequency support, reactive power, and spinningreserve), by restoring capacity and
improving plant availability and load-following capability (ability to follow dispatch instructions from
system operators). This i s in line with the Athens Memorandum, which highlights the inclusion of plant
rehabilitations among regional investment priorities.


~




8        IDAhas introducedan IDA13 Pilot Envelope for regionalprojects o fupto $450millionper
annum duringFY04-05. Individual country allocations will normally cover 1/3 o f the project cost
attributable to an individual country wherever feasible. Inrecognition o f the significant positive
extemalities o fregional projects, the remaining 2/3 o f the credit amount will be from the IDA pool and
will maximize the flexibility within IDA.


                                                       21

@) Power Transmissionand SystemOperations. The regionrequires additional interconnections
including links to UCTE. These main projects have been studied andprioritized by USAID as part of
ECSEE preparations'.     Albania-Montenegro, Serbia-Hungary, Croatia-Hungary, Macedonia-Albania,
Hungary-Romania and Bulgaria-Greece are among the highest priority links. Interconnectiono f Turkey
(expected to be developed in2005-06) and the Kosovo-Albania interconnection (being studied under
Bank financing) were beyond the scope o f the USAID study, but both are clearly also highpriority items.
Other highpriority transmission investments will also include transmission line and substation
reinforcements within individual countries - a linkbetweentwo countries or betweenthe region and
UCTE will be useful only ifpower can be moved across countries with reliability.

Transmission system operators inthe region are typically also responsible for system operations. This is
an area where several countries will need to upgrade their facilities and installnew load dispatch and
communication systems. A study carried out for USAID recommended the following projects for
submission to international financing and commercial credit institutions: Croatia, Macedonia, and Serbia
and Montenegro. The EBRD and EIB are currently considering financing the project inSerbia, but
Croatia, Macedonia and Montenegro are yet to confirm financiers.

(c) Power Distribution. Power distribution projects are typically local undertakings and Bank Group
support would continue to be provided mainly under individual country projects, for example, distribution
reinforcementprojects to modernize aging systems and reduce system losses. However, the Bank would
support metering and/or telecommunications programs, which are designed to quickly enhance revenue
realization and/or coordination and communications capabilities o f distributionutilities so that they can
more effectively participate inthe regional power market.

(d) Technical Assistance. Along with investments, APL projects can finance a wide range o ftechnical
assistance:

     (a) Institutional Development - establishing and/or strengthening the regulators, transmission
         companies/system operatordmarket operators, and distribution system operators to implement
         the requiredrules, codes and regulations, power exchanges and settlement systems, etc.; and
     (b) Project Preparation and Implementation-engineering and environmental services to (1)prepare
         projects for financing by the Bank under alter APL installment and/or by other financiers and (2)
         help implement projects.

EnvironmentalConsiderations. The Bank's standard environmentalrequirements would apply to
projects supported under the APL program. An environmental management plan acceptable to the Bank
would be finalized and disclosed inthe country and submitted to the InfoShop prior to project appraisal of
category B projects. More comprehensive environmental impacts assessments would be required for
category A projects, if any. Most projects to be financed under the program are expected to be category
Bprojects, but some generationrenovationprojectsmightreceivecategory A ratings. The APL
instrument i s well suited to dealing with the uncertainties and delays that environmental management



9        Under the USAID-funded SouthEast EuropeCooperative Initiative (SECI), a ProjectGroup on
"Development of Interconnection o f Electric Power Systems o f SECI Countries for Better Integrationto
the European System" comprising transmission system operators inthe region was established. The SECI
Project Group undertook a "Regional Electricity TransmissionPlanning and Interconnection Study"
which modeledthe potential impact o f twelve new transmission links under various hypothetical inter
(between SEE and Westem and Central Europe) regional (not intra - this study assumed that countries in
SEE are individually balanced) power flows.


                                                     22

plans, assessments andconsultations often cause inBankprojects. Unlike a regular multi-component
investment project, which gets delayed if any o f its components get delayed, under the APL program,
other APL projects can proceed and only the one APL project that i s delayed i s affected. Therefore, it
does not appear necessary to "automatically" exclude all generationprojects from further consideration
butitis important to identify potentialprojects early and then launchpreparatory work including
environmental assessmentdmanagement plans to avoid delays on that account later.

The EnvisionedUS$ 1.0 BillionECSEEAPL LendingProgram

FinancePerspective. The proposed US$1billion size o fthe ECSEEAPL facility may appear to be very
large, and it would be a significant commitment. However, the financial requirements of power
development inthe region are very large, and the Bank's US$ 1.O billion has to be seen in this
perspective. The SEE region faces a fundamental risk o f not being able to meet the growing demand for
electricity. Significant capacity additions (of the order o f 12,000-15,000 MW) and plant rehabilitations
(of the order o f 8,000-9,000 MW) will be required duringthe next ten years, along with matching
transmission and distribution system investments ifdemand i s to be met and severe power shortages and
supply interruptions are to be avoided. Financingrequirements are o fthe order of some US$30-40 billion
and these are conservative estimates. The bulk o f such financing, particularly inpower generation, can
notberaised inthe public sector alone, without significantprivate sector participation. Through ECSEE
-aregionalmarketofcountrieswithharmonizedandEU-compatiblelegislationandinstitutions
underpinnedby a legally bindinginternational Treaty - the region will develop a EU-compatible regional
market and thereby represent a much larger and more attractive investmentdestination to prospective
investors. Integrationof ECSEE into the internal market o f the European Union will not only provide the
region opportunities to export energy into the Community, but to also import energy to help meet
shortfalls, including system emergency situations.

ECSEEAPL CountryPrograms. The overall APL programrequires an investment by the Bank of
about US$l,OOO million, based on current estimates and subject to further review and change. A tentative
breakdown i s gwen below:

         BankFinancingunderthe ECSEEAPL Program(US$ million)

                                       APLl APL2          APL3       APL4     APLS

                                      FY05       FY05 FY06           FY07      FY08        TOTAL

ALBANIA                                              24                   30                       54
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                         36                    30            66
BULGARIA
CROATIA
KOSOVO                                                           5                                 5
MACEDONIA                                                      25                                 25
ROMANIA                                   84                             126        125         335
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO                                20                   50                      70
TURKEY                                               80        100                  165          345
Unallocated                                                    40         40         20          100

TOTAL                                     84        124       206        246        340       1,000




                                                      23

The above APL financing plan includes a proposed unallocatedportion o fUS$lOO million (about lo%,
inprinciple available any time when neededinthe FY05-08 period), whichcouldbeusedto fundprojects
inBulgariaandCroatia(which havenot expressed strong interestinthe APL facility) and/or provide
higher volumes to others, or ifnot needed, would simply not be committed.

Approachto Co-financing. Inview o fthe large financingrequirements andthe limitednumber o f
projects that each donor can appraise and supervise, the approach indonor coordination for the financing
o f ECSEE's priority investments i s that to the extent feasible, instead o f co-financing individual projects,
donors discuss the financing o fpriority investments and then take charge o f their respective projects: co-
financing i s being done at the ECSEE program level, donors coordinate at the program level and each
takes care o f specific projects.

    2. RomaniaCountryand Sector Background

Romania'sEnergy andInfrastructureChallenge. Economic stagnation for mosto f the 1990smeant
less demand on Romania's energy and infrastructure sectors, which also ledto inadequate investments
and insufficient maintenance and rehabilitation o f aging facilities and networks. Now that Romania's
economic growth has reached 4-5% per annum, pressure on energy and infrastructure services is
increasing. This i s far more than a sectoral issue. Adequate supply o f energy and availability of
infrastructure are essentialprerequisites for achieving sustainable economic growth. Without economic
growthmomentum, it will be difficult for Romania to both implement its social programs/poverty
alleviation agenda and improve and maintain necessary fiscal discipline for sustainable development.
Romania's desire tojoin the European Union adds to the country's energy and infrastructure challenges
the needto comply with various EUdirectives and other minimumstandards. Improvements in
Romania's energy and infiastructure services are also needed to improve the quality o f life o f individuals
- including helping Romania improve maternal health, reduce child mortality, contain diseases, and
improve primary education.

Inthepower sector, aseconomic growthisaccelerating, demandforelectricityhaspickedupandis
projectedto increase. As a result, pressure on electricity facilities and services is increasing, at a time
when available capacity from existing facilities is declining. Raising the necessary investment resources
to rehabilitate aging plants and transmission and distribution networks   - the  estimated US$10 billion
needed inthe 2005-2015 period      - isa tremendous challenge given the constraints inthe public sector and
current global environment for private energy investments. The Government of Romania has concluded
inits energy strategy 10 that private sector participationis essentialinmeetingthe investment
requirements inthe energy sector. Inthe power sector, the private sector is projected to help raise almost
half - US$4.5 billion of the US10billion investment needs. Reforms to address power sector issues
were launched inthe late 1990s, and substantial progress has been achieved, enabling the Govemment to
realistically attempt to attract such large private investments.

Power Sector Reforms. An electricity law was enacted in 1998 andthe electricity andheatregulatory
authority ANRE (Autoritatea Nationala de Reglementare in domeniul Energiei) was established in 1999.
Sector entities have gone through several reorganizationand restructuringmeasures. At the start o f the
reform process, power generation, transmission and distribution and system operations were carried out
by the RomanianElectricityAuthority RENEL(Regia Autonoma de Electricitate) which hadbeen
established in 1990. RENELwas corporatized (converted into ajoint stock company) in 1998 into the
National Power Company CONEL (Compania Nationala de Electricitate) and a separatejoint stock


lo "The Road Map for the Energy Field" was approved and published inJuly 2003.


                                                       24

company Nuclearelectrica which was created for "EL'S nuclear assets. Power generation and
distribution were carried out by CONEL's subsidiaries Hidroelectrica (hydro power), Termoelectrica
(thermal power and heat) and Electrica (distribution and supply), alljoint stock companies. CONEL was
directly incharge of transmission and system operations as well as the commercial relationships among
its subsidiaries (the start o f an electricity market). The restructuringprocess continued in2000: (a)
Hidroelectrica, Termoelectrica and Electricabecame independent companies reporting to the Ministry of
Industryand Resources (MIR); (b) the process to establish eight regionalpower distribution and supply
companies (discoms) was launched by the national distributor (Electrica); (c) a national power grid
company Transelectrica (Compania Nationala de Transport a1Energiei Electrice) was established for
CONEL'spower transmission and system operations functions and a subsidiary company OPCOM
(Operator Comercial) was established for CONEL's commercial functions and to become the electricity
market operator.

Through a series of tariff adjustments by ANRE, overall tariff revenue has been brought up to cover the
cost o f supply and cross-subsidies have been largely eliminated. Inparallel, Romania has started the
liberalization o f its electricity market, along the lines o f EUdirectives, which require member countries to
allow a gradually increasing share o f electricity to be contracted between suppliers (generators and
traders) and eligible customers -- electricity users qualified to purchase power directly from the wholesale
market. The concept o f an eligible customer is well-known from the EUelectricity directive, but
Romania has added an additional criteria requiring the payment of bills, reflecting chronic issues inbill
collection inthe past. Some fundamental issues remain to be resolvedbefore a well-functioning
electricity market can emerge and before the sector can operate within the larger regional and European
networks. This i s largely because o f the structure o f the generation sector -- not having a sufficient
number o f commercially-oriented generators and generation unbundlingbased on fuel used (hydro,
nuclear and thermal) -- and the relatedregulatory and commercial framework. A sufficient number of
buyersnow exist as Electrica's eight discoms have become fully functional along with an increasing
number o f eligible customers (currently about 2,000).

The Government's Road Map spells out its strategy and implementation plans for further power sector
reforms. The Government intends to increase the number o f commercially-oriented suppliers through
further generation restructuringand by attracting private investors. Restructuringo f Termoelectrica into
four new subsidiaries (Bucuresti, Craiova, Rovinari and Turceni) alongthe lines o f its existing subsidiary
Deva (which was established under an ongoing Bank operation), with a few generation plants staying
with Termoelectrica, was done in2003. Craiova, Rovinari and Turceni were separated from
Termoelectrica into independent companies from April 2004, and are to be privatized (under PAL2).
Significant changes inthe regulation o fhydro generation are being carried out, ahead o f the partial
privatizationo fHidroelectrica envisioned inthe RoadMap. ANRE i s also starting preparations to put in
place a fully functional supplier(s) o f last resort by the time o f full market liberalization. Four o f
Electrica's eight discoms are expected to be privatizedby mid-2005, and the other four are also to be
privatized under PAL2.

Along with above industrystructure, the RoadMap also spells out the proposed new wholesale electricity
market. The Electricity Market Project (EMP) supports the development o f the kmdo f well-functioning
wholesale electricity market envisioned inthe RoadMap, with assistance to the Government, ANRE,
OPCOMandTranselectrica. ANRE has already launched the electricity market liberalization, and is
puttinginplace under the EMPa comprehensive set ofregulationsfor a new trading regime - a wholesale
electricity market to be operated by OPCOM for the increasinglyprivate generating companies and
discoms, as well as other electricity suppliers and an increasing number o f eligible consumers. The
success o f Romania's power reforms inkey areas (including privatizations, investments, efficiency
improvements and competitiveness) will be greatly influencedby ANRE's, OPCOM's and Transelectrica's
ability to develop, regulate and operate a competitive electricity market. Such a liberalizedelectricity


                                                        25

market will also facilitate Romania's accession to the EU- the Road Map i s focused on the remaining
steps Romania needs to take inorder to meet the EUdirectives inthe energy sector and the development
o f a well-functioning electricity market is one o f its key elements.

The Romanian system currently has a synchronous interconnection with some o f its neighbors including
Albania, Bulgaria, Greece, and Serbia inthe so-called UCTE second synchronous zone. On M a y 8,2003
Transelectrica became a member o f UCTE (the Union for the Co-ordination o f Transmission of
Electricity), an association o f transmission system operators providing a reliablemarket base by efficient
and secure electric "power highways'' inEurope. On October 10,2004, the UCTE second synchronous
zone was connected to the mainUCTE. This opened the way for Romania (and the rest o f South East
Europe) to join one of the largest electric synchronously interconnectedpower systems worldwide. Full
integration o f the Romanian power system into EU's intemal electncity market and into the continental
Europe interconnected power system i s one o f the Govemment's priorities inits power reforms and
Romania is one o f the most active members inECSEE's development.




                                                       26

          Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and other Agencies
    EUROPEAND CENTRAL ASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)

The following i s a selective listing o f related projects and highlightso fthose that are directly supporting
ECSEE's development.

The World Bankhas ongoingprojects inthe electricity sector inmost ECSEE countries, andtechnical
assistance inKosovo. These projects support various aspects o f power sector reformand restructuring,
including financial aspects, and inter alia help buildthe foundation for the development o f a regional
electricity market and participation by the respective countries/utilities. The ThirdPower Reconstruction
Project inBosnia and Herzegovina i s instrumental for the resynchronizationof the so-called second
UCTEzone (Eastern part o f Bosnia, plus Albania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Romania, Serbia and
Montenegro) with the Western part o f Bosnia and Croatia, and the main UCTEWestern Europe power
system.

The EuropeanUnionsupports power sector reformandrestructuringunder its technical assistance
operations inthe region. Through its Phare program, ina large project co-financed with EIB and EBRD;
itis alsoproviding investment support to Transelectrica inRomania.

EBRDhas ongoingpower sector projects inAlbania, Bosnia andHerzegovina, Bulgaria, Macedonia,
Romania and Serbia and Montenegro, including private sector power generation inBulgaria. EBRDhas
just approved a project that will implement the second interconnectionbetween Hungary and Romania,
This interconnector will be one o f the means for the integration o f ECSEE into the internal market o f the
European Union.

EIBhas ongoing power sector projects inBosnia andHerzegovina, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Romania and
Serbia and Montenegro, often inco-financing arrangements with EBRDandor the Bank.

KfW has ongoing power projects inAlbania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Serbia and Montenegro,
and Turkey.

Technical Assistance. Several Bankprojects also provide technical assistance. Mostnoteworthy inthis
context are the ongoing projects inRomania and Turkey, which support the development of electricity
markets. CIDA o f Canada i s providing regionaltechnical assistance (the SEETEC project) for the
development o fregional electricity market inSouth East Europe. USAIDi s providing technical
assistance on legal and regulatory aspects o fpower reforms and restructuring, including institution-
buildingsupport to the regulator agencies, throughout South East Europe, as well as regional studies on
power trade and requiredcommunication facilities for the development of ECSEE. Annex 5 o f the
Bank's March 2004 framework paper (footnote 4) contains a comprehensive listing o f technical
assistance inthe ECSEE context. The Italian Government may provide technical assistance for ECSEE
preparatory work to ECSEE Regional Members. The Spanish Government has provided support through
a trust fund to help the Bank review ECSEE investment projects.

All o fthese agencies/countries except Spain are members o fthe ECSEEForum.




                                                       27

                               Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
    EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA: Energy Communityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)

                                             ResultsFramework

                PDO                          OutcomeIndicators               Use of OutcomeInformation

The ECSEE APLl would (1)               (1) Electricity markets inSouth-East  An increasingnumber o f electricity
establish the ECSEE APL facility       Europe are liberalized inaccordance   consumers are free to choose their
for the implementation o f priority    with the ECSEE Treaty (including      electricity supplier.
investments inelectricity generation,  derogations and subsequent
transmission and distributionand       modifications, ifany) and a regional
technical assistance for               electricity market i s functioning;
institutionaUsysterm development
andproject preparation and             (2) APLl project is completed in      Romania operates inthe regional
implementation for the development     Romania and its electricity market   power market inaccordance with the
o f a functioning regional electricity andpower system operateswith the      ECSEETreaty.
market inSouth East Europe and its     helpo fancillary services from
integration into the intemal           Romania's Lotruproject.
electricity market o f the European
Union; and (2) provide priority
investment support for Romania.

       IntermediateResults              ResultsIndicatorsfor Each              Use of ResultsMonitoring
       Oneper Component                            Comnonent
ComponentOne:                          ComponentOne:                         ComponentOne:

Romania/Hidroelectrica - main          Lotrurehabilitation i s completed,    Romania's TSO, Transelectrica, uses
rehabilitation contract for the Lotru  ancillary services are available. lst the ancillary services made available
Hydro project is awarded. Sept         unit March2007, 2"d unit June 2008,  byHidroelectrica from its Lotru
2005.                                  3rdunit Sept 2009.                    station, increasingly unitby unit and
                                                                             operates with an increasingly
                                                                            regional approach inpower system
                                                                             operations. Romania's market
                                                                            operator OPCOM operates a
                                                                            functioning electricity market, with
                                                                            an increasingly regional approach.




                                                        28

 E
 E
.C
+LC
.C
 e
 ;
c
4r
 icjEsi ;   a,
             VI
             x
 L
b5
c0

 a
 s

 at
 E                 o ?
                   S;E


ab
 L                 !

                                   Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
   EUROPEAND CENTRAL ASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)

         RomaniaLotru project(EUR66 millioninAPL financing):

Lotru i s an existing hydro power development on the LotruRiver. Lotru i s the most important provider
of ancillary services    for the operation o f Romania's power system. It was builtinthe 1960dearly
1970s and commissioned in 1972-75. The capacity o f the Lotru power station i s 510 MW (fromthree
Pelton turbines o f 170 MW each). The source o f water for the hydro plant i s the Vidra reservoir, which
was created as part o f the Lotrudevelopment. It i s a multi-year reservoir, an ideal facility for Lotru's
special operational role inthe power system. The reservoir includes the Vidra dam, a large rockfill dam
with a height o f 121meters and crest length o f 350meters. The elevation o fthe reservoir is about 1,300
meters, and the power station is at about 500 meters, giving the project a maximum gross head o f 809
meters. Inorder to maximize the head - and thereby the power output - the power station i s located about
140 meters underground.

The condition and continued safety o f the Vidra dam i s under continuous monitoring and regular
maintenance and the dam is in good condition (also see Annex 10, Section 1). At the same time, after
three decades o f demanding heavy-duty operation as the key provider o f ancillary services, the hydro
plant's electro-mechanical equipment is overdue for extensive rehabilitation. Due to financial constraints,
Romania has only been able to replace the Peltonrunners, under Swiss aid financing inthe late 1990s,
and defective switchyard electrical equipment. Under the proposed project, all other main equipment in
the underground power station and the switchyard will be replaced. The project will restore the Lotru
plant into a reliable source of ancillary services. Effective capacity will be restored to the current nominal
capacity o f 510 MW. The total cost estimate is about EUR 85 million o f which about EUR 63 million i s
proposed to be funded under the Romania component o f APLl.

Hidroelectrica's InstitutionalDevelopment. Going beyond the needs o f the Lotruproject,
Hidroelectrica will establish under the ECSEE APLl project a twinningarrangement with a power utility
with significant hydro generation and experience inoperating inan electricity market under EU
liberalization approach. The scope o f such twinningarrangement would include: (a) contracting -
bilateral contracts, risk management usingday-ahead markets and optiodcapacity contracts etc., (b)
investment planning and prioritization; (c) financial planning and project finance; (d) project
management; (e) human resource development, etc. The twinningarrangement will be financed under a
EUR 3 milliontechnical assistance component for Hidroelectrica's institutionaldevelopment.

Under the Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) program (footnote 6), the Government will carry out an
assessment o fprivatization options for Hidroelectrica, including its sale as a whole or inparts. Partial
(minority) listing o f Hidroelectrica's shares might be an option, and/or some of Hidroelectrica's existing
plants and/or some unfinished projects mightbe offered for sale, as the next step inthe Government's
efforts to attract private sector investment, management skills and competition into the power sector
(Annex 1, section 2 presents Romania's power sector strategy). This assessment could be financed under
the technical assistance component of the project. However, Hidroelectrica is notrequiredto use the
proceeds o f the Bank loan for this assessment.




"        Ancillary services (such as frequency support, reactivepower, and spinningreserve) are required
for the safe and reliable operation o fpower systems.


                                                      30

                                     Annex 5: ProjectCosts
   EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)

        Romaniahotru project:

                                                          Local          Foreign          Total
Project Cost By Component andor Activity                  EUR             EUR              EUR
                                                         million         million          million

Lotru Rehabilitation                                      14.8            58.7            73.5

Technical Assistance                                       0.6             3.0             3.6




Total Baseline Cost                                       15.4            61.7            77.1
 Physical Contingencies                                    0.3             1.9              2.2
 Price Contingencies                                       2.1             1.8              3.9
                                 TotalProjectCosts'       17.8            65.3            83.2
                          Interest during construction                     4.4              4.4
                                        Front-end Fee                      0.4              0.4
                         TotalFinancingRequired           17.8            70.1            87.9



'Identifiable taxes and duties are EUR 16.4million, and the total project cost, net o ftaxes, is
EUR72.5 million. Therefore, the share ofproject cost net oftaxes is 79.5%.




                                                31

                               Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
   EUROPEAND CENTRALASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)


        RomaniaLotruproject:

The Lotruproject will be implementedby Hidroelectrica. It i s one o f the successor companies o f
Romania's national power company Renel, which was restructured and unbundled in 1998-2000 into
Hidroelectrica (hydro power generator), Termoelectrica (thermal generation), Nuclearelectrica (nuclear
power), Transelectrica (transmission and system operations) and Electrica (electricity distribution and
supply). It owns andoperates 345 hydro powerplants and 5 pumpingstations with a total capacity o f
6,288 MW, accounting for about !4 o f Romania's power supply and most of the ancillary services to
Transelectrica, the system operator.

Hidroelectrica has experience in all aspects o f hydropower development and operations. It utilizes
Romania's Instituteof Hydroelectric Studies and Design for specialized support on a regular basis,
including the preparation o f the Lotruproject. The rehabilitation o f the Lotru station will be implemented
through one large turnkey supply and install contract. The work will be staggered so that for most o f the
time duringimplementation, only one o f the three 170 MW unitswill be out o f operation. Prospective
contractors will be prequalified. Two-stage biddingwill be used, so that all potential technical issues can
be addressed prior to inviting the price bids. As this will be Hidroelectrica's first Bank-financedproject,
Hidroelectrica will engage consultants with experience inBank-financedprocurement to assist with the
prequalification and tendering. The process to select the consultants i s currently underway.

Hidroelectrica has prepared and will implement an Environmental ManagementPlan for the project.
Hidroelectricawill also continue to carry out annual inspections o f the Vidra dam. Supplementingthese
dam safety inspections, Hidroelectrica has an emergency preparedness plan (EPP) for the area
downstreamo f the Vidra dam. Hidroelectrica i s developinga sophisticated communication (warning)
systems for Vidra, and once completed (target i s March ZOOS), the Vidra EPP will be updatedto
incorporate the new warning system. These aspects of the project are covered under the Bank`s safeguard
policies, as presentedinAnnex 10.

Hidroelectrica will monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the project and the
achievement o f the objectives, and will submit to the Bank, at the end o f each calendar quarter, quarterly
progress reports. Hidroelectnca will also prepare and furnish to the Bank, by December 31,2006, a mid-
term review report integratingthe results o f the monitoring and evaluation activities. Hidroelectrica will
review the mid-term report with the Bank, by March31,2007, and will take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion o f the Project, basedon the conclusions and recommendationso f the mid-
term review.




                                                     32

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
    EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)


Romania/LotruProject:

1. Summary

Country Issues

The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Romania was finalized inDecember
2003 and concluded that the overall fiduciary risk associated with the public financial management and
financial accountability arrangements o f the Romanian government administration is considered to be
moderate, with the systems for accounting, financial reporting and internal control representing the areas
withthe higher risks andbudgeting, cashmanagement and external audit and Parliamentaryoversight
representing the lower risks.

The implications o f the CFAA for the project are addressed by the following actions:


    0    A detailedreview ofthe systems was performedfor the implementing entity;
    0    The implementing entity has a distinct project-specific accounting ledger;
    0    Project accounting staff has been nominatedfor the implementing entity;
    0    The format of the FMRs and financial reports agreed with the implementing entity; and
    0    Hidroelectrica entity as well as the Project financial statements auditedby an independent auditor
         annually.

Strengths and Weaknesses

The significant strengths that provide a basis o f reliance on the project financial management system
include: (i)the experience o f Hidroelectrica and its financial staff inimplementing Bank-financed
projects and satisfyingBank financial management requirements, as some o f Hidroelectrica's staff have
worked on the previous Power Sector Project that was implementedby the previous National Electricity
Company and on the Electricity Market Project, implementedby Transelectrica; and (ii)      the simple
funds' flow.

There are no significant wealaesses o f the project financial management system.

Implementing Entity Hidroelectrica
                      -
Hidroelectrica was established inAugust 2000 as commercial legal entity, by Government decision,
following the restructuringo f the National Electricity Company. The existing project implementation
team established within Hidroelectrica would be responsible for the financial management aspects of the
Project.

The LoanAgreement will be signed between the World Bank (IBRD)and Hidroelectrica with the
Government o f Romania guarantee issuedby the MPFunder a Guarantee Agreement.




                                                       33

Funds Flow

Project funds will flow inrespect o f each of the sources o f project financing as follows:

         (i) The Bank loan, by direct payments or via the Special Account, which will be replenishedon
             transactional methods usingStatements o f Expenditure; and

         (ii)Govemmentcounterpartcontribution,viadedicatedTreasuryprojectaccounts.

A Special Account will be openedat a commercialbank and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. Foreign currency amounts will be exchanged as needed inlocal currency (ROL), to cover eligible
expenditures payments inlocal currency to suppliers, from the Special Account into a local currency
transfer account that will be opened at a commercial bank and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.

Government counterpart contributionpayments will be made from a separate Treasury project account,
being a sub-account o f Hidroelectrica's main budgetary account, and which will be used specifically for
the counterpart contributions to the project. These contributions will be received monthly inaccordance
with normal budget procedures.

Stafflnng

The project implementationteam includes a project director, a finance team comprising the project
finance Manager, project disbursement officer and project accounting officer and a number o f technical
and procurement specialists. The project finance manager has good experience of implementing Bank-
financed projects and has demonstrated that it i s fully capable o f fulfilling the financial management
needs of the project, as shown duringthe previous years worked on the Bank-financed Power Sector
Project that was implemented by the previousNational Electricity Company, and the Electricity Market
Project.

Accounting Policies and Procedures

The project's accounting books and records at the various agencies will be maintained on an accrual basis
and denominated inRomanian Lei (ROL) with the exception o f the books and records inrespect o f the
Special Account which will be maintainedinthe currency o f the IBRDLoan.

Hidroelectricahas inplace appropriate accounting regulations and internal controls including
authorization and segregation o f duties documented inthe internal control procedures and regulations.

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Audit

Hidroelectrica has recently established its internal audit department. It i s anticipated that the internal
audit department will review the project's financial management arrangements. The internal audit
department will include inthe annual work program the Project, as part o f Hidroelectrica's overall
activities. However, the internal audit department has, so far, relatively limitedexperience, beingrecently
established.




                                                     34

External Audit

As o fthe date o fthis report, the Borrower is incompliance with its audit covenants o fthe Bank-financed
projects.

Hidroelectrica has been audited inaccordance with ISA since its incorporationin2000 by independent
extemal auditors. The auditors issued a qualified-exception opinion on Hidroelectrica's financial
statements for 2002 and 2003, due to issues relating to inventory and to the application o f I A S 36 and
aspects pertainingto fixed assets. The auditors issueda disclaimer o f opinion on Hidroelectrica's
financial statements for 2000 and 2001 due to matters related to I A S 29, public patrimony, inventory,
accounts payable, fixed assets, going concem and financial position o f the company.

The Project will be audited annually bothby an audit firm and on terms o f reference acceptable to the
Bank. The terms of reference for the audit have been agreed and were attached to the minutes o f
negotiations. The audit scope will include the project's books and records as maintained by the
implementing entity, all withdrawal applications, and the Special Account. The audited project financial
statements together with the auditor's opinion thereon will be provided to the Bank within six months of
the end o fthe reportingperiod, being the fiscal year.

Hidroelectrica's financial statements will be audited annually, bothby an audit firm and on terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. The terms o freference for the audit have been agreed and were
attached to the minutes o f negotiations.

Inaddition, the RomanianCourt ofAccounts (CoA), the country's supreme audit institution, will
continue to perform ad hoc extemal audits o f the implementing entities, including of this project.

The most recent audit report prepared by the CoA, dated July 2004, covering FY 2001 - 2003 for
Hidroelectrica has been reviewed. The points raisedby the CoA have been satisfactorily addressed by
Hidroelectrica and the CoA confirmed that Hidroelecticahas discharged its obligations inrespect of the
execution and reporting of the budget.

3. DisbursementArrangements

The Loan proceeds would be disbursed over a five-year period (May 2005 to June 2010). The project
completion date would be December 31,2009 and the loan closing date would be June 30,2010, when
full disbursement o fthe Loanis anticipated. Hidroelectrica would maintainallrequired supporting
documentation for at least one year beyond the year inwhich the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
has taken place and make it available for review by the Bank staff and independent auditors upon request.




                                                    35

Allocation o f loan proceeds i s shown inthe Table below:

                                         Allocation of Loan Proceeds

            Expenditure Category                     Amount in EUR                  Financing Percentage
                                                          million
 1.Goods (including installation)                          59.30              100% of foreign expenditures, and
                                                                            100% o f local expenditures (ex-factory
LotruRehabilitation                                                         cost), and 80% for other items procured
                                                                                            locally
 2. TA: Consulting Services                                 3.00              85% incurred by foreign consultants
                                                                            and 75% incurred by local consultants

 3. Unallocated Amount                                      3.70

4. Premia for Interest Rate Caps and Interest               0.00
 Rate Collars


 Total Project Costs with Bank Financing                   66.00
                  Interest during construction              0.00
                                   Front-endfee             0.00

 Total                                                     66.00


Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs):

Bank funds will be disbursed under the Bank's standard procedures including SOEs and direct payments.
Supportingdocumentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates, will be retained by the
Borrower and made available to the Bank duringproject supervision. Disbursements for expenditures
above the SOE threshold o f EUR 100,000 (EUR 20,000 for individual consultants) will be made against
presentation of full documentation relating to those expenditures. There is no plan to move to periodic
disbursements.

Special Account:

Hidroelectrica will open and manage a Special Account specifically for this project, ina commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank, including appropriate protectionagainst set-off, seizure and attachment.
Withdrawal applications for the replenishments o f the SA will be sent to the Bank monthly, or when
about 33% o fthe initial deposit inthe SA has been utilized, whichever comes first. The S A will be kept
inthe loan currency, for which the Borrower has already expressed its preference for Euro. Authorized
allocation for S A would be EUR 6.6 million, initial allocation would be EUR 4 million, increasedto
EUR6.6 million after withdrawal applications and special commitments reachEUR 12 million.

4. Reporting and Monitoring

Project management-oriented FinancialMonitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project monitoring
and supervision. The project implementingteam inHidroelectrica will produce the project's FMRs every
calendar quarter and the reports will be submittedto the Bank within45 days after the calendar quarter-
end. The formats o f the FMRs and financial reports have been agreed and were attached to the minutes of
negotiations.



                                                    36

5. InformationSystems

Hidroelectrica has a modern accounting software system inplace implementedby a Romanian software
firm which also provides systemmaintenance. A project-specific accounting ledger has beencreated
within Hidroelectrica's accounting software systemto recorddistinctly the operations o fthe project, using
the existing chart of accounts.

6. ActionPlan(AgreedwithBorrower)

None required.

7. SupervisionPlan

Duringproject implementation, the Bankwill supervise the project's financial management arrangements
intwo mainways: (i) the project's quarterly financial monitoringreports (FMRs)aswell as the
                       review
project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii)
                                                                                     duringthe Bank's
supervision missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements
(including a review of a sample of withdrawal applications and movements on the Special Account) to
ensure compliance with the Bank`s financial management requirements.




                                                    37

                                Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
   EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)

RomanialLotruproject:

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the
provisions stipulatedinthe Legal Agreement. The various items under different expenditure categories
are described ingeneral below. For each contract to be financed by the Loadcredit, the different
procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs,
prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank inthe
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the
actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurementof Goods: Goods procuredunder this project would include a large (upto US$SO
million) Supply and Installation contract for rehabilitation o f Lotru HPP. It i s envisioned that procurement
will be conducted intwo stages with prequalification o fbidders.

Selectionof Consultants:

The Borrower will select and hire consultants to provide technical, procurement and construction
supervision assistance. Consultants have been engaged through advance procurementbefore the Loanis
approved and signed and costs will be reimbursedretroactively.

The Borrower will also select and hire consultants to provide institutionbuildingsupport under a
twinning arrangement with a power utility with significant hydro generation and experience inoperating
inanelectricitymarket under EUmarket liberalization approach. The scope of suchtwinning
arrangement would include: (a) contracting - bilateral contracts, riskmanagement using day-ahead
markets and optiodcapacity contracts etc., (b) investmentplanning and prioritization; (c) financial
planning and project finance; (d) project management; (e) humanresource development, etc.. Consultants
will be engaged through the standardprocedure for the selection of firms.

B. Assessment ofthe agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by Hidroelectrica, the Borrower.

The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation o f the project have been identified
and include lack o f experience with the Bank-financedprojects and lack o f personnel experienced in
international procurement. The corrective measures which have been agreed are training of the personnel
of the Borrower (a training session was provided duringpreparation mission) and hiringof experienced
international and local consultants.

The overall projectrisk for procurement i s average, subject to satisfactory implementing the above
corrective measures.




                                                    38

C. Procurement Plan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementationwhich provides the
basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the Borrower and the Project
Team on November 8,2004 and i s summarized in Section E-it consists o f one large supply and
installation contract, plus consulting services for Hidroelectrica's institutional development and project
implementation (procurement support). The Procurement Plan will be updated inagreement with the
Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementationneeds and improvements
ininstitutional capacity.

D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision

Inaddition to the prior review supervision to be carriedout fi-om Bankoffices, the capacity assessment of
the Implementing Agency has recommended 6-month frequency for supervision missionsto visit the field
to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.


r
E. Details of the ProcurementArrangements Involving InternationalCompetition

1. Goods, Works, and Non ConsultingServices

(a) List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting:

12                                                                             6            7             8

      Contract            Procurement                      Domestic         Review        Expected    Comments
    (Description)            Method                      Preference        by Bank         Bid-
                                                           (yedno)      (Prior/ Post)

   S&I                                                                 Prior
   Contract for
   rehabilitatio
   no fLotru
   HPP                                                                                              I         I


(b) ICB contracts and all direct contracting will be subject to priorreview bythe Bank.




                                                      39

2. ConsultingServices

(a) List o f consulting assignments with short-list o f international firms.

         1                2                   3                   4               5                6

     Ref. No.       Description of        Selection            Review         Expected         Comments
                     Assignment           Method               by Bank        Proposals
                                                            (Prior / Post)   Submission
                                                                                Date


   1               Technical/          Individual           prior           Oct 04
                   procurement         Cons.                                (actual)
   2                Twinning           Firm                 prior           June 05
                   Arrangement
                   for Institution
                   Building

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$50,000 per contract and single source selection of
consultants will be subject to priorreview by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services estimated
to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in
accordance with the provisions ofparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.




                                                       40

                              Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
   EUROPEAND CENTRALASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)


         Romania/Hidroelectrica:

Regulatory Environment

Hidroelectrica is the lowest-cost generator inthe Romanianpower system. The key to Hidroelectrica's
finances (including much-improvedprofitability from 2005) i s inthe regulatory (tariff and market)
framework and the Romanian Government's electricity pricing strategy for hydro, which i s implemented
bythe electricity regulatorANRE, as part o fthe Government's overall strategy for electricity tariffreform
and electricity market liberalization.

Electricity Market. Through a series o f tariff adjustments by ANRE (discussed below), overall tariff
revenue inthe power sector has been brought up to cover the cost o f supply and cross-subsidies have been
largely eliminated. Inparallel, Romania has started the liberalization o f its electricity market, along the
lines of EUdirectives, which require member countries to allow a gradually increasingshare of electricity
to be contractedbetweensuppliers (generators andtraders) and eligible customers -- electricity users
qualified to purchase power directly from the wholesale market. Liberalization was launched in2000,
and the share o f liberalized market has been raised rapidly. FromNovember 2004, market opening
reached 55% when all consumers (about 2,000) with an annual consumption o f 1GWhor higher became
eligible to choose their supplier. Full 100% opening i s set for July 1,2007, inaccordance with the
Government's RoadMap and Directive 2003/54/EC.

Hidroelectrica accounts for about `/4 o f Romania's power supply and most o f the ancillary services to
Transelectrica, the system operator. Beingthe lowest-cost generator, Hidroelectrica is one o f the main
beneficiaries o f market liberalization. However, in accordance with Government Decision No.
1524/2002, ANRE was required to fully regulate Hidroelectrica's operations beyond its bilateral contracts
already inplace from 2003 untilthe 100% liberalization o f the electricity market inJuly 2007. This
transitional strategy for hydrowas reviewed in 2004, resulting inGovernment DecisionNo. 1336 in
August 2004, under which hydroliberalization was restarted andis now being implementedinline with
the overall market liberalization.

Hidroelectrica's market comprises o f four main segments: (a) "eligible customers" indomestic market
supplied at marketprices under bilateral contracts andthrough OPCOM's Power Exchange (a day-ahead
market); (b) distribution utilities that supply electricity to regulatedcustomers at prices regulatedby
ANRE; (c) Transelectrica as the purchaser o fancillary services at prices regulatedby ANRE; and (d)
export customers at negotiated prices. Because o fprogressive market deregulationHidroelectrica's sales
mix has changedrapidly to its advantage: f?om FY2001to FY2004, its sales at regulatedtariffs have
decreased from 75% o f its output to about 40%, with a corresponding increase i s sales to eligible
customers and exports. Further reduction in sales to the regulated market will take place from January
2005, when the market i s opened to 55% o f consumption.

Electricity Tariffs. Since 1999, ANRE has implementeda series of tariff adjustments, usually 2-3 per
annum (and once, inSeptember 2001-April 2002, monthly). In2003, ANRE had three adjustments
(January, April and September), but then decided to adopt a 6-month cycle for tariff reviews.
Accordingly, it made two adjustments this year, inJanuary and July 2004, and the latest adjustment i s to
become effective on January 1,2005. Inaccordance with Governmentpolicy, ANRE kept hydro tariffs at
a very low level, o f about U S cent OS/kWhequivalent, untillate 2003. The policy provided for tariff


                                                      41

revenues to Hidroelectrica set to enable to it cover its day-to-day operations, but no financing for
investment. Inthe meantime, ANRE carried out rapid adjustments inthe retail tariffs, and inthe rates for
thermal generation to bringthe major thermal generator, Termoelectrica, to cost recovery level.

Due to the very highinflation in Romania and depreciation o f the RomanianLeu against the US$ until
2001, ANRE'Stariff adjustments inthe 1999-2001 period, though significant inlocal currency terms, still
resultedina reduction inthe average retail price o f electricity inUS$ terms. With the moderating
inflation, since 2001 through 2004, retail tariff adjustments inUS$ have been o f the order o f 20-30%, and
the resulting 2003 tariff would have been sufficient for the power sector to reach cost recovery level, had
a drought not occurred. Largely to compensate Hidroelectrica for the significant losses incurred in2003
due to the drought, ANRE doubled Hidroelectrica's tariffto about U S cent lkWh equivalent in
September 2003, with a corresponding adjustment inretail rates. With these adjustments, the power
sector was projected to cover its costs in 2004.

InMarch 2004, at the requestofthe Government, the BankreviewedRomania's electricity tariffs inclose
operation with ANRE. The March 2004 review made a number o f recommendations to the Government
and ANRE regarding policy and tariffs, respectively. Among the recommendations was the doubling of
Hidroelectrica's tariffs by January 2005, to a still low level o f about U S cents 2/kWh. Such tariff action
has been effected by ANRE. It was necessary for Hidroelectrica to:


    0    meet its financial obligations (including payment o f arrears incurred due to the drought in2003,
         by the end o f the agreed three-year period);
    0    start generating funds for investments (rehabilitation o f its aging plants andcompletion of
         projects initiated years ago which had stalled due to lack o f funds); and
    0    be properly integrated into the liberalizing electricity market -where the level o f market opening
         is set to reach 55% inJanuary 2005.

Hidroelectrica has reached a sound and generally satisfactory financial position.

Hidroelectrica's Operations

Hidroelectrica's Past Financial Performance. Hidroelectrica's financial performancehas been
analyzed from FY2001, the year inwhich it commenced its operations as an independent company. A
summary o f its financial performance for the period FY2001-03 and latest estimates for FY2004 are
provided inTable 1below. Highlights can be summarized as follows:


     0   Profitability.    Inspite oflargeproportionofsalestoregulatedcustomersattariffswellbelowits
         average cost o f supply, Hidroelectrica eamed a profit inFY2001 and 2002. InFY2003
         Hidroelectrica suffered a financial loss o f US$ 112 million due to a severe drought and resulting
         shortfall ingeneration. Inadd incurred a loss, its collections from regulated customers also
         dropped. However, because of exceptionally low level o f debt for such a highlycapitalized
         company (debt equity ratio o f O.Ol), it didnot default to its lenders;


     0   Billing and Collection. Hidroelectrica's collection efficiency currently at an average o f 80% i s
         less than satisfactory and well below the overall performance inthe power sector12. Its bill
 '*      Inadequate bill collection hadbeen a major financial issue inthe power sector since 1990s. With strong
support from the Bank (under PSAL and PSAL2) and the IMF(under its Stand-By Arrangements), the Government
and the distribution utilityElectrica have progressively and ultimately successfully addressed this issue. For the
whole of 2003, Electrica achieved a bill collectionrate of 99%. Similar accomplishment has been achieved inthe
gas sector, where the two distribution utilities reached a bill collection rate o f 100%for 2003. These highly


                                                           42

         collection from export and eligible customers i s near hundredpercent. However, it gets paidby
         the distribution companies (all still Electrica subsidiaries) serving regulatedcustomers through a
         centrally-administeredprocedure o f distributingElectrica's cash collections according to the
         suppliers' operatingneeds. This system works against Hidroelectrica due to its low operating
         costs and appears to favor thermal generators particularly Termoelectrica. Inresponse/as a result,
         Hidroelectrica has been unable to service some o f its obligations. With the expected gradual
         discontinuation o fthis centrally-administered system inline with distributionprivatization from
         FY 2005, Hidroelectrica's collection efficiency is expected to improve; and


     0   Accounts Payables. Liabilities o fU S $ 118 million, incurred on account of power purchased in
         the spot market from Termoelectrica to meet its supply obligations, will be set o f f against fiture
         profits over three years FY2004-06 -- part o f the resources to be generated fi-om the tariff increase
         inFY2004 andthe increase expected inFY2005 will go towards paying offthe shortterm debt
         and bills outstanding to Termoelectrica over the next three years. Reduction inintemal resources
         will create a financing gap inHidroelectrica's investment programinthe mediumterm

Hidroelectrica's ProjectedFinancialPerformance. Hidroelectrica's financial performance has been
analyzed through FY2012. A summary o f its projected financial performance for the periodFY2005-12
i s provided inTable 1below. Highlightscan be summarized as follows:


     0   Profitability. Hidroelectrica's tariffs for regulated customers will be adjusted significantly in
         January 2005 and further by 2007 so as to reach the level o fprices inthe electricity market and
         avoid a tariff shock when the market i s fully deregulated in2007. Even under conservative
         assumptions o f market prices remaining constant inreal terms, Hidroelectrica's revenue will be
         adequate to cover its costs and provide an average profit margin o f more than 20% inthe FY05-
          12period. Given the projectedtightening supply situation inthe region, Hidroelectrica's
         profitability may tumout to be higher than projected. Hidroelectrica will also benefit as a
         competitive supplier o f ancillary services inRomania and inthe region. A 50% dividend payout
         ratio has been assumed from FY2007 after Hidroelectrica has fully recoveredits losses and paid
         its obligations incurred duringthe drought o f FY 2003. However, the past asset revaluations
         would result ina low return on net worth, expected to be about 2% over the projection period;


     0   Capital Structure. Due to the low level o f debt and asset revaluations, Hidroelectrica's debt
         equity ratio i s only 0.02. At the end o f FY2003, revaluation reserves were US$ 3.4 billion out of
         its net worth o f US$5.5 billion. Despite a projectedinvestment program of over US$3 billion in
         the next eight years, its debt equity ratio is expected to go up to only 0.16 inFY 2012; and


     0   InternalResource Generation and Investment Program. From2005 to 2012, Hidroelectrica
         plans to invest about US$3.3 billion: US$1,265 million inrehabilitation o f its existing hydro
         projects including Lotruto be financed through the proposed loan, US$802 million on completion
         of ongoing and other partially completedprojects, and US$1,260 million on new capacity
         addition. Allowed to recover depreciation on its revalued assets, Hidroelectrica's intemal
         resource generation will be substantial and adequate to support this program. Because o f the l o w
         debt equity ratio and strong self-financing, Hidroelectrica's debt service coverage will remain
         highandHidroelectricashould be able to also access commercial sources to help finance a part of
         its investment program.



satisfactory rates have beenmaintained in2004, and with the distribution privatization now underway (Annex 1,
Section 2), high collection rates are expected to be maintained also inthe future. This is an importantpositive
factor for the future financial performance of Hidroelectrica.


                                                          43

Targets and Commitments under the Project. Basic financial targets, designed to safeguard
Hidroelectrica's financial position and operations, including its ability to provide ancillary services to
Transelectrica for the reliable and efficient operations o f the Romania and regional power system, have
been agreed: Hidroelectrica will maintain a debt equity ratio o fnot less than 1.5 and a current ratio of not
less than 1.2. It was also agreed that Hidroelectrica and the Govemment would finalize during2005 a
concession agreement for Hidroelectrica's public domain assets -as was done for Transelectrica's public
domain assets under the Electricity Market Project in2004. The concession agreement will inter alia
formalize Hidroelectrica's continued use o f such assets inits operations and facilitate the treatment o f
related fees to the Government and Hidroelectrica's operations and maintenance costs by ANRE.

Mitigation of HydrologicalRisk. Hidroelectrica's financial risks (inaddition to bill collection) arise due
to possible hydro failure and exchange and interestrate variations. The last two are easier to manage
since Hidroelectrica has adequate foreign exchange earning from its exports, and due to its low level o f
debt it will be able to cover interest rate variations even under adverse circumstances. However,
mitigation o f hydro failure riskrequires careful consideration:

    e    Inthe absence ofavailability ofhedgingproducts inthe market, Hidroelectrica couldmitigate this
         risk through contracting long term bilateral and export sales only for primary energy (firmenergy
         capability o f available hydropower plants). As the electricity market develops and Hidroelectrica
         gains experience and skills, Hidroelectrica could use more sophisticated techniques o frisk
         assessment and mitigation;


    0    The appraisal team recommendedto Hidroelectrica and ANRE that inthe formulation o f the
         Portfolio Contract for Hidroelectrica for sale to the distribution companies for their sales to the
         regulated customers, it would be prudent to restrict the amount of energy that Hidroelectrica
         would sell through Portfolio Contracts and other bilaterally negotiated contracts to a level
         equivalent to primary energy o f available hydropower plants. This implies that OptionContracts
         between Hidroelectrica and thermal producers should be used to back-stop the Portfolio Contracts
         and also the bilaterally negotiated contracts. The balance (secondary energy) would be sold
         through OPCOM's Power Exchange; and

    e    Hidroelectricaconfirmed that it intends to negotiate option contract(s) with thermal generator(s)
         to back-up its power sales contracts. Hidroelectrica will also establish a twinningarrangement
         with a power utilitywith significant hydro generation and experience inoperating inan electricity
         market under EUliberalization approach. The scope o f such twinning arrangement would
         include: (a) contracting  - bilateralcontracts, riskmanagement usingday-ahead markets and
         optiodcapacity contracts etc., (b) investment planning and prioritization; (c) financial planning
         and project finance; (d) project management; (e) human resource development, etc. The
         twinningarrangement will be financed under the technical assistance component for
         Hidroelectrica's institutional development.




                                                       44

45

                                   Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
    EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)

The classification of the APL program and AE'L1 i s FI. Most of the country-level investment projects are
expected to be B-category projects. RomanidLotrui s a B-categoryproject. However, individual
country-level investmentprojects includedinthe later installments ofthe APL programmay contain
components that would beratedas belongingto the A-category or C-category.

Romania/Lotruproject:

Therehabilitation ofthe Lotrustationwill have only minor environmental impacts andno social impacts.
There are no issues. The station i s located about 140meters underground. The main impact i s the
disposal o f equipment replaced underthe project. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been
prepared and public consultations have been held. Ithas been cleared bythe Bank and submitted to the
Infoshop. Hidroelectricawill implementthe EMP andprovide inthe quarterly progress reports the
results o f the monitoring programs included inthe EMP.

The Lotru hydro project triggers OP 4.37 on D a m Safety:

Romania's and Hidroelectrica's dam safety laws, regulation andarrangements, ingeneral and as applied
to the Vidra dam, and Hidroelectrica's undertalungs regardingVidra dam duringthe implementation of
the project, are satisfactory with respect to the Bank's safeguardpolicy on the Safety o f Dams.

RomanianLaw on the Safety o fDams requires statutory safety assessmentsto be carried out once in
every seven years, or more frequently ifrequiredby Romania's National Commission for Dam Safety
(CONSIB). CONSIB i s independentfrom Hidroelectrica; therefore the provisions comply with the
requirements of OP 4.37. A statutory assessment of the Vidra damwas carried out in2002. The safety of
the dam was found satisfactory. A number o f recommendations were made for continued safety, to be
implemented in2002-2005. Hidroelectrica is implementing the recommendations, as part o f its corporate
commitment to ensure the continuedsafety o f all of its dams. Hidroelectrica has its own Committee on
Dam Safety, which reviews annually Hidroelectrica's ongoing dam safety monitoring programs and
reports and submits an annual report to CONSIB. Although there are no concerns and no problems are
envisionedbased on Hidroelectrica's track record in general   l3andwith Vidra dam specifically, at the
Bank's request Hidroelectrica agreedto: (a) submit annually to the Bank: (i)  reports o f statutory and its
own inspections o f the Vidra dam; and (ii) on the implementation of their recommendations; and
                                             reports
(b) discuss the reports withthe Bank andundertake additionalmeasuressuggestedbythe Bankin
consultationwith CONSIB.

All Hidroelectrica dams includingVidra have emergency preparednessplans (EPPs), basedonthe 1995
law on disaster protection, 1996 law on civil protection, the 1999Water Act, and 2001 law on dam safety,
The current EPP for Vidra dami s from 2003. It was reviewedand found satisfactory. A copy has been
placed in the project file. Hidroelectrica has an ongoing program to develop sophisticated communication
(warning) systems, launched in2002 inthe potentially most critical dams and to be completed in2006.

l3      As part ofthe preparation of the HazardRiskMitigationand EmergencyPreparednessProject
(approved inMay 2004), the Bank carried out a dam safety assessment. On that basis, a number of unsafe
dams were selectedfor rehabilitation underthat project, all from the priority list o f Romania's National
Commission for Dam Safety (CONSIB). None of the unsafe dams are administeredby Hidroelectrica.



                                                     46

Vidra project is underway for completion inMarch 2005. Once completed, the Vidra EPP will be
updated to incorporate the newwarning system. At the Bank's request, Hidroelectricaagreed to submit in
2005 the updated EPP, indraft for Bank review and infinal form for Bank records, and informthe Bank
about consultations with and by local authorities about the update. Inaddition, Hidroelectricawill keep
the Bank informed offuture updatesofthe EPP for Vidra.

The proposedfinancingof the rehabilitation ofthe Lotru hydroprojecttriggers OP 7.50 on
ProjectsinInternationalWaterways:

The project is onthe LotruRiver, which flows into Olt River, which inturn flows into Danubeonthe
border of Romania and Bulgaria before reachingthe Black Sea. An exemption from the notification
requirement under OP 7.50 has been granted: the Lotruproject does not involve works and activities that
would exceedthe original scheme, change its nature, or alter and expand its scope and extent to make it
appear a new or different scheme. Consequently, it falls within the exception set forth inparagraph 7 (a)
of OP7.50 as: (a) it will not adversely affect the quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians;
and (b) it will not be adversely affected by other riparians' water use.

Romaniai s a signatory of the Convention on Co-operation for the Protectionand Sustainable Use of the
River Danube (short title: Danube RiverProtectionConvention-DRPC). The Conventionis aimed at
achieving sustainable and equitable water managementinthe Danube basin. An Intemational
Commission for the Protectionof the Danube River (ICPDR) was established under the Convention. The
RomanianGovernment, Hidroelectrica and the Bank's project team discussed the relevant provisions of
this Conventionand agreedthat sincethe Lotrudoes not have any adversetransboundary impacts, no
notification to the ICPDR i s requiredunder the Convention. The team also reviewed Romania's bilateral
agreements on transboundary waterways with Ukraine and the former Yugoslavia and a proposed
agreement with Moldova and confirmed that the provisions of those agreementsdo not require
notification about the Lotruproject becausethere is no transboundary impact. This review was facilitated
byBank's work for the HazardRiskMitigationand Emergency PreparednessProject (footnote 13).




                                                      47

                         Annex 11: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
   EUROPEAND CENTRAL ASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)


                                                   Planned                  Actual
PCNreview                                       January 2004            January 23,2004
InitialPID to PIC                               February204              March 9,2004
InitialISDS to PIC                             February 2004             March 8, 2004
Appraisa1                                      September2004             October 2004
Negotiations                                   November 2004           November 11,2004
BoardRVP approval                              December2004
Planned date o f effectiveness                   May 2005
Planned date ofmid-termreview                   March 2007
Plannedclosing date                             June 30,2010

Key institutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:


    0   ECSEE The governments of South East Europe andthe EuropeanCommission
                -



    0   RomanidLotm project -Hidroelectrica and its consultants includingthe Institute o f
        Hydroelectric Studies and Design


    0   RomanidElectricity market andregulatory framework -ANRE, OPCOM and
        Transelectrica, and their consultants


Bankfunds expendedto date onproject preparation:
    1. Bank resources: $425,000
    2. Trust funds: $37,500
    3. Total: $387,500

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs ofAPLl:
    1. Remaining costs to approval: $25,000
    2. Estimated annual supervision cost: $80,000




                                               48

Bankstaff andconsultantswho worked ontheECSEEAPLprogramandthe APL1
RomanidLotruproject included:



Name                                                  Title                        Unit
Kari Nyman  *             Lead Specialist -ECSEE Team Leader, Romania, Croatia    ECSIE
IrinaKichigina                                    Sr. Counsel                     LEGEC
Rozena Serrano                                Program Assistant                   ECSIE
Doina Visa                              Operations Officer -Romania               ECSIE
Doncho Barbalov                          Operations Officer -Bulgaria             ECSIE
Nicholay Chistyakov                           Sr. Finance Officer                 LOAGl
Bogdan Constantinescu                Sr. Financial Management Specialist
IstvanDobozi *                                                                    ECSPS
                                     Lead Energy Economist -Bulgaria              ECSIE
                                           Projects Officer - Croatia
Mohinder Gulati *
Stjepan Gabric                                                                    ECSIE
                            Sr. Financial Analyst - Serbia andMontenegro, Kosovo
DavidKennedy *                                                                    ECSIE
                             Sr. Energy Economist - Regional Strategy, Macedonia
IftikharKhalil *            LeadEnergySpec. - Albania, Bosnia andHerzegovina      ECSIE
                                                                                  ECSIE
Ranjit Lamech  *                           Sector Leader-Turkey                    IEF
George Moldoveanu                         Team Assistant Romania
                                                           -                      ECCRO
DejanOstojic                  Sr. Energy Spec. - Regional Generation Investment   ECSIE
GurhanOzdora                           Sr. Operations Officer Turkey
                                                              -                   ECSPF
Alessandro Palmieri                          LeadDam Specialist                   ESDQC
JonathanPavluk                                    Sr. Counsel                     LEGEC
Stan Peabody                                 Lead Social Scientist                ECSSD
LeonidVanian                              Sr. Procurement Specialist              ECSPS
Daniel Aizic                            Consultant -Financial Analyst               --
BernardBaratz                       Consultant Environmental Specialist
                                               -                                  EASEG
Ramon Lopez-Rivera                  Consultant -Engineering, Hydropower           ECSIE
                                               PeerReviewers:
Ludmilla Butenko                      Sr. ResourceManagement Officer              SFRRM
Amarquaye Armar                             Lead Energy Specialist               EWDEN
Patricio Marquez                            LeadHealth Specialist                 ECSHD


       * ECSEE AF'L program team membersandtask leaders for ECSEE APL country
         projects as listed above




                                               49

                        Annex 12: Documentsin the ProjectFile
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)


  1.       ECSEE:

  ECSEE Treaty, draft, version IV.5, December 3,2004
  Athens Memorandum, December 8,2003
  Athens Memorandum, November 15,2002

  ECSEE information at http://www.seerecon,ora/infrastructure/sectors/enerPy/index.html

  2.       Romania/Lotruproject:

  Hidroelectrica, annual reports, 2001,2002,2003
  LotruProject Feasibility Study, four volumes, Institute o f Hydroelectric Studies andDesign,
  August 2004
  L o i nProject, Environmental Synthesis, Institute o fHydroelectric Studies andDesign, August
  2004
  Environmental Impact Assessment, Institute o f Power Studies and Consultancy, June 2004
  Vidra Dam, Institute o f Hydroelectric Studies and Design, September 2004
  Dam Safety Report, Daniel Gunaratnam, prepared for the Romania Hazard Risk Mitigationand
  Emergency Preparedness Project, July 2003

  Hidroelectrica information at: http://www.hidroelectrica.rokidrohomeengl.asp

  ANRE information at: http:Nwww.anre.ro




                                              50

                                 Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
        EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)

    Active Projects
ProjectID  FY        Purpose              IBRD    IDA  SF    GEF  Cancel.  Undisb. Orig. Frm.
                                                                                         Rev'd
PO66065    2002      AG POLLUTION                      5.15       2.38     0.68
                     CONTROL (GEF)
PO43882    2000      AGR SUPPORT SERVS    11.OO                   3.64     3.64    0.04  11.00
PO44176    1999      BIODIV CONSV                      5.50       1.75     1.75    1.04
                     MGMT (GEF)
PO58284    1999      CULTURAL             5.00                    0.89     0.89    0.89  5.00
                     HERITAGE
PO81406    2003      ELECMARKET           82.00                   87.95    -7.87         82.00
PO68062    2003      ENERGY EFF (GEF)                  10.00      8.28     6.23
PO67367    2003      FORESTDEVT           25.00                   24.22

PO34213    1998      GEN'L CADASTRE       25.50                   13.90    13.90   4.63  25.50
PO75163    2004      HAZ MITIG            150.00                  149.90   0.90          150.00
PO78971    2005      HEALTH SEC REF 2     80.00                   86.72                  80.00
                     (APL #2) (CRL)
PO43881    2004      IRRIGREHAB           80.00                   79.80    3.10          80.00
PO86949    2005      MAKIS AGRIC SUF'PT   50.00                   53.47                  50.00
                     SERVS (CRL)
PO56337    2000      MINE CLOSURE         44.50                   19.57    19.57   5.57  44.50
PO87807    2005      MINE CLOSURE, ENV    120.00                  120.00                 120.00
                     & SOCIO-ECOREG
                     (CRL)
PO08791    2005      PAL                  150.00                  152.06                 150.00
PO39251    1999      PIBL                 25.00              1.10 3.43     4.53          25.00
PO69679    2003      PPIBL                18.60                   17.77    -0.83         18.60
PO39250    1997      ROADS 2              150.00                  14.76    14.76         150.00
PO57960    2002      RURAL DEV (APL#1)   40.00                    34.57    10.07         40.00
PO73967    2003      RURAL EDUC           60.00                   56.39    4.80    0.89  60.00
PO56891    2001      RURAL FIN (APL #1)   80.00                   64.67    44.47   -6.33 80.00
PO68808    2002      SDF 2 (AF'L #2)      20.00                   9.38     -10.62  0.38  20.00
PO08783    2001      SOC SECT DEV (SSD)   50.00                   42.52    37.64         50.00
PO83620    2005      TRANSPORT            225.00                  225.00                 225.00
                     RESTRUCTURING

                                                       20.65 1.10 1273.03  150.49  7.11  1491.60
   *PO89568 Banat & DobrogeaElectricy    76.7
         DistributionCompanies
         Partial Risk Guarantee




                                                  51

                                                          ROMANIA
                                                   STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                 HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                   InMillionsofUS Dollars



                                                                                Held                      Disbursed


F Y Approval      Company                                      Loan        Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity Quasi Partio

       1999       Ambro                                              3 07         0      0       0  3.07      0     0      0
       2003       Arctic                                           12.79          0      0       0 12.79      0     0      0
       2002       aanc post                                              0        0     10       0     0      0    10      0
      2003104     Banca Comerciala                                       0      111      0       0     0    111     0      0
       2001       Banca Romaneasoa                                   3 29         0      0       0  3.29      0     0      0
       2001       ICME                                             10.55          0      0       0 10 55      0     0      0
       1998       Krupp Compa                                        1.51         0      0   0.65   1.51      0     0   0.65
     3/4/2002     M F I MFB Romania                                     10        0      0       0     5      0     0      0
       2004       RZB Romania                                          40         0      0       0    40      0     0      0
       1997       Rambox                                            0 23          0      0       0  0.23      0     0      0
       2003       Ro-Fin                                            5.02          0      0      0   1.01      0     0      0
       2004       Romanian-Amer ..                                       3        0      0      0      3      0     0      0
      19-34/01    Romlease                                          2 22          0      0       0  2.22      0     0      0
       2004       Transilvaniabank                                 25 57          0      0       0  3.84      0     0      0


                       Total Portfolio.                           1 1 7 2 5     111     10   0 6 5 86 51    111    10   0.65




                              A p p r o v a l s Pending Commitment

                                                               Loan        Equity  Quasi  Partic
              2005Banvil Romania                                        15        0      0       0
              2004Mindbank                                               7        0      0       0
              2003Ro-Fin Mortgage                                        0        0      1       0


                Total Pending Commitment:                               22        0      1       0




                                                                                                                               I




                                                            52

                                          Annex 14: Country at a Glance
EUROPEAND CENTRAL ASIA: EnergyCommunityof SouthEastEurope(APL1)


                                                               Europe &  Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                               Central middle-
                                                        Romania    Asia income          Developmentdiamond*
2003
Population,mid-year (millions)                             21.7    473    2,655                        Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                        2,260   2,570   1,480
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                            49.2   1,217   3,934

Average annual growth, 1997-03
Population("A)                                             -0.6     0.0     0.9
Laborforce ("A)                                             0.1     0.2     1.2         GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                        per        -                  __ primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                   capita                               enrollment
Poverty(% of population belownationalpoverty line)          25
Urban population("A of totalpopulation)                     56       63      50
Lifeexpectancy at birth (years)                             70       69      69
Infantmortality(per 1,000live births)                       20       31      32
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                                     11                  Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)         58       91      81
Illiteracy("A ofpopulation age 15+)                           2       3      10
Gross primary enrollment ("A of school-agepopulation)       99      103     112                     Romania
    Male                                                    100     104     113                     Lower-middle-income group
    Female                                                  98      102     111

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                   1983   1993    2002    2003                                . -~
                                                                                         Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                         26.4    45.7    57.0
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                              28.9    23.1    24.6                             Trade
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                          23.0    35.4    36.3
Gross domestic savingsiGDP                                 24.0    17.3    16.8
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                                  24.2    19.7    18.2

Currentaccount balanceiGDP                                 -4.5    -3.3     -5.8
InterestpaymentsiGDP                                        0.5     1.2      1.4
Total debffGDP                                             16.2    34.3    39.8
Total debt serviceiexports                         15.2     6.3    19.0    17.5
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                           33.2
Presentvalue of debffexports                                       91.3

                                      1983-93 1993-03     2002    2003  2003-07
(average annualgrowfhj                                                                       -Romania
GDP                                      -3.1       0.7     4.3     4.9     5.0
GDP oer caDita                           -3.3       1.2     7.2     5.2     5.0                      Lower-middle-income group
                                                                                               ~~




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1983   1993    2002    2003           Growth of investment and GDP (%)
                                                                                                         ___
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                           ..   22.6    13.1    13.0          30 -

Industry                                              ..   42.1    38.1    37.9          15

   Manufacturing                                      ..   28.7            31.5           0
Services                                              ..   35.3    48.8    49.1         .I5                    00      01     02    03

Privateconsumption                                    ..   63.7    76.0    70.8         .30 1
General government consumption                        ..   12.3     6.6    12.4
Imports of goods and services                         ..   28.0    41.2    44.1                      -GDI             +GDP             I
                                                                                                                                       I
                                               1983-93 1993-03    2002    2003          Growthof expo& and imports (%)
                                                                                    ~~~~                           ~~~      ~   -~__
(average annualgrowih)
Agriculture                                         1.4    -1.5    -3.9     3.0         45 -

Industry                                           -4.3     0.9     7.2     4.6         30 -
   Manufacturing
Services                                                    1.5     5.6     5.2         15


Privateconsumption                                          3.2     3.0     7.3          0

General governmentconsumption                              -0.3     2.1     4.6      -15
Gross domestic investment                                   0.3     7.3     9.2
Imports of goods and sewices                         ..    11.9    12.1    34.4

                                                                                                                     Romania

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1983    1993     2002     2003
Domestic prices                                                               Inflation (%)

('33 change)                                                                  200                                               i
Consumer prices                                  256.1     22.5     15.3
ImplicitGDP deflator                       -0.4  227.4     24.2     19.2
Government finance
(% of GDP, indudescurrent grants)
Current revenue                                  33.2      29.6     29.9                 98     99     00      01       02      03
Current budget balance                             4.3      0.6       1.3    1
Overall surplus/deficit                           -0.4     -2.6      -2.2              -GDPdeflator          -0-CPI               I

TRADE
                                         1983    1993     2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                               1Export and import levels (US$ mill.)                1
Total exports (fob)                             4,892   13,876   17,618      j

   Textiles                                       959     1,782    2,282      30'000 T                                            1
   Metals                                         574     1,181    1,482
   Manufactures                                 2,856     9,851  12,534       20 000

Total imports (cif)                             6,522   17,862   23,983
   Food                                           964     1,174    1,737      10000
   Fuel and energy                               1,872    2,272    2,615
                                                                                                                                  I
   Capitalgoods                                  1,432    5,111    7,017     I      O
Exportprice index (1995=100)                                 79       79               97    98   99    00     01     02

Importprice index (1995=100)                                 70       71                       Exports        w Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                   114      111                                                      O3



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1983    1993     2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                                Current account balanceto GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services           12,239  5,691   16,223   20,646
Importsof goods and services            10,369  6,934   18,825   25,113
Resourcebalance                          1,870  -1,243  -2,602   -4,467

Net income                               -710    -145     -459     -705
Net currenttransfers                         0    214     1,536    1,861

Current account balance                  1,160  -1,174  -1,525   -3,311

Financingitems (net)                    -1,538  1,120     3,327    4,445
Changesin net reserves                    378      54   -1,802   -1,134

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)              956    7.306    9.364
Conversion rate (DEC,/oca//US$)                 760.0  33,055.5 33,200.1

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1983    1993     2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed     9,129   4,282   15,680   22,686
    IBRD                                1,742     403    2,173    2,296
    IDA                                      0      0         0        0                   G 2,771        A 2,296

Total debt service                      1,875     363    3,163    3,673
    IBRD                                  220      19      196      214
    IDA                                     0       0        0         0

Composition of net resourceflows
    Officialgrants                          0      99      259         0
    Officialcreditors                     317     743      143        16
    Privatecreditors                     -123     167    2,060    1,967
    Foreign direct investment               0      94    1,144         0
    Portfolioequity                         0       0       21         0                F. 13,667
World Bank program
    Commitments                             0     120      340      222       4    IBRD                          E - Bilateral
    Disbursements                         362     189      335      131       3 --        D Other multilateral
                                                                                            -                    F Private
    Principalrepayments                   102       0      120      145       ;IMF
                                                                                 - IDA                           G Short-term
                                                                                                                   .-
    Netflows                              259     189      214       -14
    Interestpayments                      118      19       76        69
    Nettransfers                          141     169      139       -82

Development twnomics




                                                       54

