Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  43485 
Project Name 
Energy Community of South East Europe (APL1) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Power (100%) 
Project ID 
P086694 
Borrower(s) 
COUNTRIES OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ X] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 25, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 29 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
December 21, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The improvement of the performance of the energy sector is crucial to improve and sustain 
economic development in South East Europe (SEE).  Power supply situation is projected to 
tighten significantly during the next few years and threatens to constrain economic activity and 
quality of life if not addressed with determined regional action.   Apart from Turkey, investment 
over the past 10-15 years has been limited, with the average age of capacity now in excess of 
thirty years.  Significant capacity additions (of the order of 12,000-15,000 MW) and plant 
rehabilitations (of the order of 8,000-9,000 MW) will be required during the next ten years, along 
with matching transmission and distribution system investments if demand is to be met and 
severe power shortages and supply interruptions are to be avoided 
1
.
The SEE countries have acknowledged that solutions to these regional issues based on isolated 
national markets are neither capable nor desirable as a means to attempt to close investment gaps 
and emerging demand and supply imbalances.  Building upon their experience to cooperate in 
the power sector, in recognition of potential gains from increased trade, and as part of a wider 
movement to strengthen regional cooperation, the governments of SEE countries and the 
European Commission (EC) signed the “the Athens Memorandum” – the Memorandum of 
Understanding on the Regional Energy Market in South East Europe and its Integration into the 
European Union Internal Energy Market - on December 8, 2003 in Athens, Greece, whereby 
they formally expressed their commitment to what is currently called the Energy Community of 
South East Europe (ECSEE) 
2
.
The Stability Pact signed as a “sponsor” and for Kosovo 
UNMIK is the signatory pursuant to UN Resolution 1244.    
 
ECSEE’s current membership
 is as follows: 
1
Review of power demand and supply in South East Europe, Working Paper No. 17, World Bank, 
October 2003 and separate Bank staff estimates for Turkey. 
2
Until June 2004 this initiative was known as the South East Europe Regional Energy Market. 
Page  2
·
ECSEE’s 
Regional Members (
also
 
called
 Non-EC Parties)
 are Albania, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Romania, Serbia and Montenegro, and 
Turkey, as well Kosovo; 
·
All
 EU Member States
 can request to be accepted to participate in ECSEE as 
political participants
.
Currently, Austria, Greece, Hungary, Italy, and Slovenia, are 
such political participants; and 
·
Neighboring non-EU Member States 
can request to be accepted to participate as 
observers.  
Currently,
 
Moldova is participating as an observer. 
 
Negotiations are underway to convert the Athens Memorandum into a legal binding international 
ECSEE Treaty.   
 
2. Objectives 
 
The objective of ECSEE APL is the development of a functioning regional electricity market in 
South East Europe and its integration into the internal electricity market of the European Union, 
through the implementation of priority investments supporting electricity market and power 
system operations in electricity generation, transmission and distribution and technical assistance 
for institutional/systems development and project preparation and implementation.    
 
The ECSEE APL program would be considered successful if the countries in the region achieve 
their commitments under the Athens process and are able to:  (a) develop a functioning 
electricity market including the agreed market liberalization targets; and (b) integrate it into the 
internal electricity market of the European Union in accordance with the ECSEE Treaty.   To 
accomplish this, the countries will have to continue ongoing restructuring and reform measures, 
build up their institutions and improve their power systems including interconnections so that 
regional trade can increase.   The ECSEE APL1 would establish the ECSEE APL facility and 
provide investment support for two of the countries, Romania and Turkey.   Related technical 
assistance support is already being provided by the Bank.   
 
ECSEE is an integral element of the Regional Members’ and the European Commission’s efforts 
for all states in South East Europe to have access to stable and continuous energy supply which 
they regard as essential for economic development and social stability.  The creation of an area 
without internal frontiers for energy contributes to economic and social progress and a high level 
of employment as well as balanced and sustainable development.  These higher level objectives 
are expressed in the draft ECSEE Treaty. 
 
All SEE countries have the prospect of EU membership.   Accordingly, the Member Countries 
and the Commission are resolved to establish tightly integrated energy markets in electricity and 
gas based on a common solidarity and consistent principles, closely linked to the internal market 
of the European Union, and fully complying with the rules applicable within the Union. 
 
The Stability Pact has made regional energy cooperation one of its core objectives in its efforts to 
strengthen regional cooperation and to foster the conditions for peace, stability and economic 
growth in the South East Europe.   The Stability Pact has characterized ECSEE as a unique 
Page  3
political chance for the SEE region, to consolidate reconciliation and provide a power driver 
towards a more comprehensive economic and political integration into the European Union. 
 
The Bank supports regional efforts to promote cooperation and integration in South East Europe.  
ECSEE is one of the most prominent of current regional programs.  The proposed APL facility is 
a
key component of the Bank’s support for the Stability Pact and the working partnership with 
the European Commission. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank is participating in regional efforts to promote cooperation and integration in South East 
Europe and 
inter alia
 supports the Stability Pact.  A major strategy paper 
3
was prepared by the 
Bank in 2000, which looked at the first decade of transition from a regional perspective and 
mapped a way forward for a more strategic regional approach.   The Bank is an active participant 
and promoter of the Athens process, at the invitation of the European Commission.   The Bank 
has supported individual countries of South East Europe in their efforts to rehabilitate and 
restructure their power sectors through policy dialogue, technical assistance and financing since 
the early 1990s (in some cases even earlier).   This deep country knowledge and participation in 
the development of ECSEE in the Athens process including regional trade strategy work puts the 
Bank in a strong position to provide regional lending, policy advice and technical assistance to 
further support the Athens process for ECSEE - the proposed APL program is a key component 
of the Bank’s support for the Stability Pact and the working partnership with the European 
Commission.   
 
In March 2004, the Bank published a strategy paper for energy trade in South East Europe 
4
.
The 
framework paper outlines the Bank’s vision for regional energy market development and defines 
its role in supporting the evolution of regional energy trade.   The framework elaborates the 
Bank’s role supporting policy reform and institutional development, and on lending for power 
generation, transmission, distribution:  
 
·
Promote a phased approach to market opening, starting with trading based on bilateral 
contracts and third party network access, and moving to a more sophisticated model after 
the institutional framework is sufficiently developed;  
·
Apply regional benchmarking in policy support work with individual countries and as a 
trigger for investment financing;  
·
Develop a special regional instrument – the proposed ECSEE APL – and finance priority 
investments to support development of the regional market;  
·
Analytical work to assess the economics of increasing the use of gas in the SEE countries 
and costs of compliance with EU environmental standards; and  
·
Complete a regional power Generation Investment Study, financed by the EC. 
 
3
The Road to Stability and Prosperity in South Eastern Europe 
–
A
Regional Strategy Study, 
World Bank, March 2000. 
4
World Bank Framework for Development of Regional Energy Trade in South East Europe, EMT 
Discussion Paper No. 12, March 2004.   
Page  4
4. Description 
 
Eligible ECSEE APL project components
.
The Bank’s March 2004 framework paper 
concluded that significant investments in power generation, transmission and distribution and 
technical assistance are required for a well-functioning power market.   Priority investments and 
technical assistance would be financed under the ECSEE APL program so that the ECSEE 
Regional Members can effectively participate in the regional electricity market: 
 
·
Investments to ensure that ECSEE Regional Member meet the integration requirements 
of UCTE - the Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity in Europe; 
·
Investments to upgrade the capabilities of transmission system operators (TSOs) of 
ECSEE Regional Members so that they can implement policy decisions to assure regional 
security of supply.  Examples of such investments include:  (a) upgrading load dispatch 
and real-time system stability and control capabilities (
e.g. the proposed APL 1 
investments by TEIAS in SCADA/EMS systems
); (b) upgrading infrastructure/systems for 
electricity market administration (
e.g. the proposed APL 1 investments by TEIAS in a 
market management system for balancing and/or ancillary service transactions, 
settlements, etc
.); and (c) removing critical bottlenecks in transmission networks and sub-
stations (
e.g. the proposed APL 1 investments by TEIAS in transmission networks and 
sub-stations
); 
·
Investment to restore operational capacity/flexibility of critical generation facilities that 
provide ancillary services to TSOs (
e.g. the proposed APL 1 investments to rehabilitate 
Hidroelectrica’s Lotru Hydropower Station  in Romania
); 
·
Investment in retrofits of critical generation and/or transmission facilities to assure 
environmental compliance; 
·
Metering and/or telecommunications programs designed to enhance revenue realization 
and/or coordination and communications capabilities of distribution utilities so that they 
can more effectively participate in the regional power market; and 
·
A
wide range of technical assistance, for institutional/systems development and project 
preparation and implementation, to support ECSEE Regional Members in energy market 
design and implementation assistance, 
inter alia
 to ensure full compliance with the 
ECSEE framework/EU directives and compatibility of market designs for the supply of 
balancing services and/or ancillary services across SEE country frontiers; and 
engineering/environmental services for the preparation and implementation of investment 
projects (including but not limited to projects financed by the Bank under the ECSEE 
APL) for a functioning electricity market.  
 
APL1 investment projects
 consist of two country projects, Romania and Turkey.  The 
Romania
 project has one component: the rehabilitation of Hidroelectrica’s Lotru hydropower 
station.   The 510 MW hydro power station will be rehabilitated into a reliable source of ancillary 
services.  The 
Turkey
 project supports the implementation of several elements of the investment 
programs of the National Transmission Company TEIAS.  First, a Market Management System 
(MMS)  would be created for TEIAS, for the management of the electricity market in Turkey. 
Second, its SCADA/EMS (supervisory control and data acquisition/energy management system) 
would be strengthened so that TEIAS would be in a  position to operate its system more 
Page  5
efficiently and to coordinate with other SEE systems operators in order to meet overall stability 
and control requirements.  Third, the project would provide transmission grid strengthening and 
expansion for overall stability. This includes funding some of TEIAS  network and sub-stations 
investments.     
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 75 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
175 
 Total 
250 
 
6. Implementation 
 
First and foremost, ECSEE is a partnership among the SEE countries.  They have acknowledged 
that solutions to pressing regional issues based on isolated national markets are neither capable 
nor desirable as a means to attempt to close investment gaps and emerging demand and supply 
imbalances.  Second, ECSEE is a partnership between the SEE countries and the European 
Union.   The European Commission signed the Athens Memorandum as a participant and will 
also be a signatory to the ECSEE Treaty.   Neighboring Austria, Italy and Greece signed the 
Memorandum as “political participants to the Athens process” and Hungary and Slovenia (which 
signed as “observers”) have since joined the EU and become political participants.  Finally,  
ECSEE is a partnership between the SEE countries and the donors including the Bank.   
Financial institutions and bilateral donors include the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (EBRD), the European Investment Bank  (EIB), the German Development Bank 
(KfW), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Canadian Agency 
for International Development (CIDA), and France, Greece, Italy, and Switzerland.   
 
A
comprehensive coordination and implementation mechanism has been established for the 
development of ECSEE.   The mechanism covers and brings together political and administrative 
leadership, regulators, transmission system operators and other utilities, the European 
Commission, international financial institutions and bilateral donors:   
 
·
ECSEE’s
 Ministerial Council 
takes place annually with the participation of the 
Ministers of Energy of the countries and the Commissioner for Energy and Transport of 
the European Commission.   The Council takes strategic decisions and gives guidance to 
ECSEE and, where necessary, formally reviews the conclusions of other ECSEE 
bodies/meetings including the Forum.   Once the ECSEE Treaty is in effect, the Council 
will report annually on ECSEE’s activities to the European Parliament and to the 
Parliaments of ECSEE’s Regional Members;  
 
·
ECSEE’s 
Permanent High Level Group
 is composed of representatives of the Ministers 
of Energy of the countries and the European Commission.  The group meets, when 
necessary, on the initiative of the Commission and the Presidency in Office, in order to 
Page  6
prepare the Ministerial Council and to ensure the follow-up of its decisions;  
 
·
Two 
Task Forces
 have been established for ECSEE preparatory work and day-to-day 
coordination and cooperation:   (1) the SEE Energy Regulators Task Force, which works 
closely with the Council of European Energy Regulators (CEER); and (b) the SEE 
Transmission System Operators Task Force, which interacts with the European 
Transmission System Operators (ETSO) and the Union for the Coordination of 
Transmission of Electricity in Europe (UCTE);  
 
·
ECSEE Forum
 meets at least twice yearly.   It comprises of representatives of the 
governments, regulators and transmission system operators of the countries, CEER, 
ETSO, UCTE, producing companies, consumers, the European Commission, the Stability 
Pact, and donors including the Bank; 
 
·
Several donors support ECSEE.  Donors are members of the ECSEE Forum and usually 
the donor agencies also meet separately in connection with the Forum meetings.   The 
Stability Pact assigned the role of coordinating the donors to the European Commission 
in 2001. The Commission retains the overall co-ordination, setting political/technical 
goals and organizing donors.  The Commission is funding an Athens Process secretariat, 
based in Athens, to support the process, 
inter alia
,
benchmarking and monitoring; and 
 
·
The Ministerial Council, the Permanent High Level Group and the Forum would be 
recognized in the Treaty.  In addition, a 
Regulatory Board
 is also expected be set up 
under the Treaty, composed of one representative of the energy regulators of the Regional 
Members.   The Regulatory Board will monitor the implementation of all statutory, 
technical and regulatory rules and will report directly to the Council. 
 
Romania/Hidroelectrica
.
The Lotru project will be implemented by Hidroelectrica.   It is one 
of the successor companies of Romania’s national power company Renel, which was 
restructured and unbundled in 1998-2000 into Hidroelectrica (hydro power generator), 
Termoelectrica (thermal generation), Nuclearelectrica (nuclear power), Transelectrica 
(transmission and system operations) and Electrica (electricity distribution and supply).  
Hidroelectrica owns and operates 347 hydro power plants with a total capacity of 6,016 MW, 
accounting for about ¼ of Romania’s power supply and most of the ancillary services to 
Transelectrica, the system operator.   
 
Turkey/TEIAS
.
The project will be implemented by TEIAS, the Turkish National 
Transmission Company, a government-owned company responsible for the planning, design, 
development, operation and maintenance of the transmission network in the country. TEIAS is 
also responsible for system operation, for the balancing market and for settlement administration.
 
The Turkish power sector has been restructured twice in the past decade. In 1994 the integrated 
government-owned utility TEK was split into a distribution company (TEDAS) and a generation 
and transmission company (TEAS).  In February  2001, Turkey passed the Electricity Market 
Law (EML) which established the basis for creating an electricity market in Turkey and  
included  the unbundling of TEAS.  It was restructured into a generation company (EUAS), a 
transmission company (TEIAS) and a trading company (TETTAS) . The law also provided for 
Page  7
the creation of an Energy Market Regulatory Authority (EMRA) to license market participants 
and to set retail tariffs.  Turkey is also beginning the implementation of an electricity market 
based on voluntary bilateral contracting and a mandated balancing system. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The current situation and the key dimensions of the short- and long-term vision for a sustainable 
electricity market can be briefly outlined as follows: 
·
ECSEE Participants
:
The main utilities in the region are already engaged in power trading, 
which provides the basis for further development.  The next steps will be bilateral contracts 
involving unbundled utilities and large customers; followed by expanding trade as electricity 
markets in each country are further opened and additional customers become eligible and 
start exercising the freedom to choose their electricity supplier; 
 
·
Market Sophistication
:
Some of the countries are already developing day-ahead markets 
(operated by market operators) and real-time balancing mechanisms (operated by system 
operators).  Over time such markets and mechanisms will become increasingly standard; and 
further sophistication will be developed, including intra-day and real-time balancing markets 
and financial instruments (possibly starting with a contract exchange);  
 
·
Competition
:
Current utility-to-utility contracts and other exchanges are typically 
cooperative and competition is not a their key objective.  As industry unbundling deepens 
and in line with market opening across the region, contracting and trading will become 
increasingly competitive.  However, transmission system operators will continue to 
coordinate on a cooperative basis, as members of ETSO and in the framework of the UCTE;  
 
·
Integration of ECSEE into the European Union Internal Energy Market
:
Croatia and a 
part of Bosnia and Herzegovina are already interconnected and their power systems operate 
synchronously and as a part of the main European power system administered by UCTE.   
Other countries of the region (apart from Albania and Turkey) are also already members of 
UCTE.  Transmission links exist between Romania and Hungary and between Serbia and 
Hungary.  These links are scheduled to be synchronously interconnected in October, 
following the completion of rehabilitation in Croatia and Bosnia of facilities required for the 
synchronous interconnection of the whole region.  The APL1 project helps Turkey to meet 
the requirements for its entry into the UCTE and ECSEE APL will also be available for 
Albania for the same purpose.  Additional transmission links to the EU countries will be 
developed.   They include a second connection between Romania and Hungary (under 
preparation, with EBRD financing anticipated for implementation), and second connections 
between Serbia and Hungary and Croatia and Hungary, and a connection between Croatia 
and Italy (all three are candidates for the ECSEE APL).  Through ECSEE’s integration the 
region will secure access to an major trading partner and an important import source to meet 
possible electricity shortfalls and emergency support.   This highlights the 
electricity/economy dimension in ECSEE’s integration into the European Union internal 
energy market. 
 
Page  8
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
In terms of actual examples, the best known regional power market is the Nordic power market, 
known by the name of its operator NordPool.   It operates in Finland, Norway and Sweden and 
part of Denmark.  Portugal and Spain have recently launched a joint market, and regional power 
markets are also under development in Southern Africa, South-East Asia and Central America, 
and they are under discussion in Eastern and Western Africa.  A key lesson learned from other 
markets elsewhere, including NordPool, and from the association of European Transmission 
System Operators (ETSO) is that the progressive integration of energy markets in SEE and the 
adoption/implementation of common security of supply policies require close attention to be paid 
to the design and operation of subsidiary electricity markets (e.g. balancing and ancillary 
services) which are best administered by Transmission System Operators (TSOs).   ECSEE’s 
implementation organization includes the SEE Transmission System Operators Task Force, 
which interacts with ETSO and UCTE to ensure smooth integration and coordination.  The role 
of  the ECSEE Task Force of TSOs is critical in all phases of ECSEE’s development and 
operation. 
 
Political commitment and adequate financial support are key ingredients of successful reform 
programs.  ECSEE’s development is premised on the political commitment of the SEE countries 
as expressed in the Athens Memorandum and is backed by an exceptionally strong donor 
involvement.   The APL program has been directly linked to ECSEE, with no additional 
conditionality.  Investment components included in APL1 are - and components to be supported 
under subsequent APL installments will be – of proven design and streamlined approaches 
emphasizing turnkey contracting will be employed in their implementation.   
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[X] [ 
] 
The classification of the APL program and APL1 is FI.   Most of the country-level investment 
projects are expected to be B-category projects.  Romania/Lotru and the currently identified 
Turkey project elements are all B-category projects.  However, individual country-level 
investment projects included in the later installments of the APL program may contain 
components that would be rated into the A-category or C-category.  APL1 is rated FI because not 
Page  9
all of the project elements in the Turkey component have been identified.   Though they are all 
expected to be B-category or C-category, in addition to preparing Environmental Management 
Plans for the components that have been identified, an Environmental Framework Document 
(EFD) and a Land Acquisition Management Framework outlining what principal actions will be 
taken by TEIAS in regard to different foreseen but not yet identified other elements (power lines, 
sub-stations) have been prepared.  The EFD and LAMF also outline how the issues related to 
public participation and disclosure of information are handled.    
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
ECSEE documentation is available at 
 
http://www.seerecon.org/infrastructure/sectors/energy/index.html 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Kari J. Nyman 
Title: Lead Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-1469 
Fax:  
Email: Knyman@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
