Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 12817
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2502-TUN)
MARCH 9, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2502-TUN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Tunisian Dinar (TD)
Appraisal Year             US$1.00 = 0.77 TD
Implementation average    US$1.00 = 0.86 TD
Completion Year average   US$1.00 = 0.92 TD
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASAL          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(Pret a l'Ajustement du Secteur Agricole)
AFVA          Agricultural Extension and Training Agency
(Agence de la Vulgarisation et de la Formation
Agricoles)
BNT           National Bank of Tunisia
(Banque Nationale de Tunisie)
BNA           Banque Nationale Agricole
(National Agricultural Bank, BNT's new name following
merger with the Banque Nationale de D6veloppement
agricole, BNDA, in 1989)
CCDA          Central Agricultural Development Commission
(Commissariat Central de Developpement agricole)
CCGC          Central Cooperative for Field Crops
(Coop6rative Centrale des Grandes Cultures)
CRA           Local Extension Unit
(Centre de Rayonnement Agricole)
CRGR          Rural Engineering Research Center
(Centre de Recherche du Genie rural)
COCEBLE       Central Cooperative for Wheat
(Coop6rative Centrale du Ble)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                            March 9, 1994
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Northwest Agricultural Production Proiect (Loan 2502-TUN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Tunisia - NW Agricultural Production Project (Loan
2502-TUN). Parts I and IlIl were prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part
11 was prepared by the Borrower.
The project aimed to get large, rainfed, wheat-cum-livestock farms to adopt improvements
already locally field-tested by agricultural research. T&V-style extension was to be the main tool. Also
part of the package were improvements to input supply, marketing, milk processing, credit for on-farm
investments, road building, and further research. The project was designed for implementation by
existing governmental organizations with coordination by an implementation unit in the agriculture
ministry.
During the implementation period, the agriculture ministry, including its extension and research
units, was repeatedly reorganized. Competition was introduced into marketing and other functions
which were public monopolies when the project was designed. The project was not adjusted
accordingly. Until late in the period, supervision focussed on disbursements and construction rather
than on project impact on agricultural production and farmers' incomes. The Borrower lost interest in
the by-then inappropriate project. Government cut its projected financing 68%. 61 % of the Bank loan
was canceled. Belgian support for the successful farm management center, however, expanded.
Except for roads, there is little evidence of impact or reason to infer impact. Extension workers
didn't visit farmers much. Record-keeping was poor and monitoring nonexistent. There is little to
sustain. Institutional development has taken a different course from that envisaged by the project.
The PCR is frank and informative. Part II provides technical corrections, and emphasizes the
negative project impact of institutional changes, weaknesses in staffing and in Bank supervision,
importance of monitoring and evaluation, and utility of lessons for the subsequent Research and
Extension Project. No comments were received from the cofinancier.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TJNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2502-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .....................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................. iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity                               .1
2. Project Background.                                                         1
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                        2
4. Project Design.                                                             4
5.  Project Implementation.                                                    7
6. Project Results .14
7.  Project Sustainability .15
8. Bank Performance .15
9.  Conclusions and Lessons Learned .16
10.   Borrower Performance .....................................  18
11.   Project Documentation and Data ...........................  18
PART II -  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...........  19
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION .............................  24
1. Related Bank Loans .25
2. Project Timetable .26
3. Loan Disbursements .27
4. Project Costs .29
5. Project Financing .30
6.  Status of Legal Covenants .31
7. Missions .33
8. Staff Inputs .34
9. Project Results .35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2502-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Northwest
Agricultural Production Project, for which Loan 2502-TUN in the amount of
US$15 million was approved on March 14, 1985. The Loan became effective on
June 27, 1986 and was closed six months behind schedule on December 31, 1991.
A sum of US$6.2 million was cancelled from the Loan on January 24, 1989 and a
further US$2.9 million was cancelled at Loan closing on May 7, 1992. Actual
disbursements totalled US$5.9 million or 39% of the originally approved Loan
amount.
This PCR (Parts I and III) was prepared by the Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office on the basis of a country visit in May 1992, a
draft completion report and progress reports prepared by the Borrower, the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement and a study of the files.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2502-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives and Description
1.          The main objective of the project was to assist Government to
increase production of cereals and livestock products on private farms and
production cooperatives in the plains of the four northwestern provinces of
B6ja, Jendouba, El Kef and Siliana, to provide for the rapidly increasing
demand for food produce in Tunisia. Increases in production and productivity
were largely to be brought about by improved technologies which had been
sucessfully tested in the area (replacing some fallow with forage and
integrating livestock) and the application of more relevant techniques (such
as fertilizer and weed control strategies aimed at the entire, integrated
farming system). This was to be achieved mainly through the reorganization
and strengthening of extension and research services in the project area and
improving supportive infrastructure, provision of training, technical
assistance, studies, livestock services, farm machinery testing and credit for
on-farm investments and input resale centers.
2.          The project was intended as the first stage of a future national
program for research and extension. A new unified extension service based on
the T&V principles was to be tested under which all extension messages would
emanate from extension agents located in rural extension centers; extension
deputies at regional level were to coordinate the extension system from
subject-matter specialists to field extension agents; and a project
implementation unit in the CCDA (Central Commission for Agricultural
Development, located at the Ministry of Agriculture in Tunis) was to oversee
and coordinate the project's various components and executing entities. There
were to be no formal institutional links between research and extension but
research staff would be expected to participate in field trials and
demonstration plots.



- iv -
3.          In addition to the regular extension activities concerned with
small and medium farmers, the project was to support, with Belgian grant
financing, the establishment of a farm management center to advise large (over
100 ha) farmers and production cooperatives (UCP).
Implementation Experience and Results
4.          The project was implemented during a period of considerable
economic and institutional changes in Tunisia: price and policy reforms under
two ASALs, reforms of the credit system under the ASALs and the Fourth
Agricultural Credit Project, and five reshuffles within the Ministry of
Agriculture which included, starting in 1989, a reorganization of agricultural
extension and research, culminating in 1991 with a research and extension
project. The original design and set-up of the project was no longer valid
following these changes. As a result, a number of components, most notably,
extension and credit, could not be implemented as foreseen and the situation
became aggravated by the declining commitment of the Borrower.
5.            The project did not, as originally intended, serve as a model to
help direct the preparation of a National Research and Extension Project.
Planning of the extension service was not based on a prior diagnosis of
farmers' varying needs and constraints. The principle of a single line of
command from central and regional management to local extension agents was not
adhered to as the project tried to superimpose its own extension agenda on the
existing national extension program. In addition to the organizational
problems which worsened with each reshuffle within the Ministry of Agriculture
(para. 4.03 and 5.05), the effectiveness of the extension program was hampered
by lack of well-motivated and trained staff, the absence of links with
research, difficult mobilization of the credit component, due to the existence
of other competing lines of credit, and lack of transportation and other
means.
6.          Consequently, the extension agents had only occasional, irregular
contacts with a limited number of farmers, and contact groups were not usually
formed; little attempt was made to review whole farms on an agro-economic
basis to help farmers increase their financial income through further
investments, particularly in livestock; feedback from farmers was not sought
and, therefore, the extension agents did not know the impact of their
recommendations on farming systems and behavior.
7.          As a result of these shortcomings, as well as three successive
years of drought from 1987-89, the Project fell far short of its objectives in
having a direct effect on farmer incomes and productivity increases. Given
the absence of data (para. 6), no economic rate of return calculation was
attempted for the project. On the other hand, the Beja farm management center
which catered to the extension needs of the large farmers was successful and
the Belgian Government has extended its support to the center for another
year.



v
8.          In addition, even though most of the physical targets were also
not achieved due to endless procurement problems, the project has made some
improvements in the services to farmers through the construction of extension
centers, roads, the provision of research and livestock services, vehicles and
equipment. By the end of the Project, only $5.9 million was disbursed (401 of
the Loan) mainly due to the low utilization of the large credit component.
The problems encountered with the extension approach of the Project have
provided valuable lessons which have been incorporated in the design of the
National Agricultural Research and Extension Project.
Sustainability
9.          In order to ensure continuity, effective from Project closing, the
research and extension activities initiated by this Project were brought under
the umbrella of the Agricultural Research and Extension Project which will
continue to strengthen research and extension through provision of facilities,
equipment, vehicles, staff and training. The creation of lead agencies, AFVA
and IRESA, to manage and coordinate research and extension at the center, with
planning, decision making and implementation delegated at field level, will
ensure the effectiveness and sustainability of research and extension
services. Emphasis will be placed on improving the quality of extension
staff, who would be trained to work with groups, and to use mass media and
other modern communication methods to reach a wider audience, while reducing
costs.   Strong links would be developed between research and extension who
would conduct diagnostic surveys to better target farmers and determine how
best to satisfy their information needs. As farmers increase profits and
income with the assistance of extension staff trained in farm management and
economics, they would be expected to form cooperatives or associations which
could, in the long run, gradually take over responsibilities for extension.
This would be in line with Government strategy to progressively withdraw from
the provision of extension services in favor of the cooperative and private
sectors.
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.         The project was too ambitious in scope and became impossible to
implement once the institutional structure fell apart.   Given that weaknesses
in design became apparent from the start, the Bank should have recommended an
early restructuring of the project and cancellation of the credit component.
Bank supervision missions focused mainly on procurement and construction of
physical infrastructure and failed to address at an early stage important
issues of non-compliance with audit covenants and lack of a project monitoring
and evaluation system.



- vi -
11.         The lessons listed below have been taken into account in follow-on
projects, in particular, the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (completed)
and Agricultural Research and Extension Project (ongoing), and the proposed NW
Mountainous Areas Development project (participatory approach and simplicity
of design and organizational set-up) and Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
(monitoring and evaluation system). Finally, roads components are, in recent
years, being implemented systematically by the Ministry of Equipment, and
increased attention is being given generally in the Bank to ensuring effective
supervision of projects.
a) project design should not be over-complex and close cooperation
and coordination within and among the various concerned agencies of the
Borrower is necessary for effective implementation of multi-component
Projects.
b) extension personnel should be trained to take account of
socioeconomic factors as well as technical considerations in dealing with
farmers. In addition, money can be saved and the coverage of scarce staff
extended by taking advantage of media and other modern communication methods.
c) a strong linkage mechanism between extension and research
institutions has to be established and the availability of appropriate
technology ensured.
d) there is a need to develop a participatory approach to planning
which promotes analysis, programming and evaluation by farmers, supported by
researchers and extension staff.
e) an appropriate project monitoring and evaluation system has to
be in place from project start-up, to assess project progress and impact, and
take early corrective measures.
f) once again, experience has shown that best practices call for
not including specific credit components in agricultural development projects,
but to rely on the rural banking system to finance credit needs under the
projects. In particular, it is counterproductive to have credit components
targeted to a limited number of beneficiaries in a given area with terms,
conditions and lending criteria differing widely from the terms and conditions
of the lead credit system of the country, creating distortions in the credit
distribution and recovery system. This lesson has been incorporated in
follow-on agriculture projects, for example, the Gabes Irrigation Project
which met its credit needs through the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project.
g) the Ministry of Equipment should be given responsibility for
road components in all sectors.
h) the successful implementation of a complex project requires not
only continuity of staff but the inclusion of a diversity of skills in the
supervision team.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2502-TUN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:   Northwest Agricultural Production Project
Loan No.         2502-TUN
RVP Unit         Middle East and North Africa Region
Country      :  Tunisia
Sector           Agriculture
2.    Proiect Background
2.01        The Project was identified in mid-1983 by a joint Bank/FAO-CP
mission following publication of the Bank Agricultural Sector Survey of
Tunisia in September 1982. The Project aimed at contributing to the priority
identified in the sector study of improving production from Tunisia's
extensive rainfed areas which have considerable unfulfilled potential.
Investments in the past had mainly favored irrigated agriculture. As the
possibility for developing new irrigation areas diminished, increased
attention was focused on the development of rainfed agriculture particularly
for grain and livestock to provide for the rapidly increasing demand for food
produce in Tunisia. Under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2197-TUN
approved in 1982), several strategies were being developed to increase
efficient agricultural production. The Project was to constitute a pilot
operation to test the nationwide implementation of master plans for research
and extension, farm input distribution, farm mechanization, milk collection
(prepared separately from the Technical Assistance project). The project was
prepared by the Department of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analysis of
the Ministry of Agriculture with the assistance of FAO/CP. The project was
appraised by the Bank in January/February 1984, approved by the Board in March
1985, signed in April 1985, and became effective in June 1986. It closed at
the end of December 1991, six months behind schedule.
2.02        Policy and Sector Context:  In the early 1980's, the need for
strengthening the agricultural sector was demonstrated by the decreasing
relative importance of the sector within the overall economy and the
increasing dependence on imports as a result of the growth in food demand
fueled by high Government investment, sharp increases in wages and salaries,
and liberal credit policies. Between 1960 and 1988, agriculture's
contribution to GDP had decreased from 24 to 13*, employment in the sector had
dropped from 54 to 30' and the proportion of agricultural to all exports from
60 to 8%. While these decreases in the significance of the agricultural
sector in the economy were largely due to the growth of other sectors, the
rate of decline indicated the need for revitalization of the primary



- 2 -
production sector. The sector's overall performance had also not matched the
continued growth of public investment in agriculture, particularly in the
decade between 1975 and 1985. The Project was prepared in 1985 and its
implementation started in 1986. This period concided with the launching of
the Government's Medium Term Economic Adjustment Program supported by six
adjustment loans between 1986 and 1991. The reform program aimed at making
the economy more outward oriented, more competitive and increasingly based on
the private sector. The Government concentrated its initial sector level
reform efforts in agriculture with the development of a Medium Term
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program or MTASAP supported by two Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Loans (ASAL) in 1986 and 1989. The ASALs have focused on
prices and input subsidies, liberalization of imports and exports of key
agricultural products, marketing in two principal subsectors (cereals and
edible oils), and strengthening of essential Government support services
(including credit, livestock services and research and extension). The NW
Agricultural Production Project was part of the Government's strategy to
achieve production increases by making more effective use of existing
resources. However, it was designed at the end of the VIth Plan, i.e. during
a transition period prior to the economic transformation of Tunisia which
began under the VIIth Plan. Several of the project components could not be
implemented as foreseen because the nature of the issues and constraints they
were designed to address had changed. The Government's commitment to the
project waned given these circumstances and the disruptions caused by the
Ministry of Agriculture's program of decentralization in 1989, which included
a reform of the organization of agricultural extension, followed, in 1991, by
a major restructuring of research and extension supported by an Agricultural
Research and Extension Project.
3.    Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.01        Proiect Obiectives: The main objective of the Project was to
assist Tunisia to increase production of cereals (mainly wheat) and livestock
products (chiefly milk and mutton/lamb) on private farms and UCPs in the
plains of the four northwestern provinces of Beja, Jendouba, El Kef, and
Siliana. The project was to focus on 18 delegations out of 33 in the area and
target larger farmers with 10 ha or more in contrast to the Northwest Rural
Development Project (Loan 1997-TUN) which was, at the time, assisting poorer
farmers in the mountainous zones of the provinces. Since about 60% of
Tunisia's total food imports are comprised of wheat, feedgrains, milk and
meat, additional Project production was expected to assist the balance of
payments. Farm income was also expected to increase. These objectives were
to be achieved by strengthening extension and research in the area and
improving supportive infrastructure.
3.02        Project Description: The Project consisted of the following
components:
(a)   introduction of an efficient extension service in the
project area to be managed along the lines of the
Training and Visit (T&V) system, including (i)
construction of 18 new and expansion of 15 existing
extension centers (CTVs) and provision of equipment,



vehicles and incremental staff for the CTVs; and (ii)
establishment of a farm management center to advise large
farmers and UCPs;
(b)   rehabilitation and provision of equipment for one animal
production and two field crop research stations;
(c)   construction and provision of equipment, vehicles,
incremental staff, operating and maintenance expenses for
three animal health centers, ten dairy cattle artificial
insemination posts, one milk collection center and three
animal purchase centers;
(d)   on-farm testing of new types of farm machinery;
(e)   upgrading of approximately 110 km of rural roads and
repairs, culverts and fords for about another 20 km;
(f)   provision of local and overseas training for extension staff
and a researcher; an advisor for the farm management center;
consultant services for extension management, farm machinery
testing, research station development, and implementation of
a monitoring and evaluation system; and studies of the
treatment of straw to improve its value as animal feed, and
of the development of service cooperatives in the project
area;
(g)   credit investments for: (i) on-farm development, including
the construction and improvement of dairies, cowsheds and
sheepfolds, the purchase of tractors, implements, cows,
rams, ewes and seasonal inputs, and the establishment of
pastures; and (ii) provision of 15 new input resale centers
(to supply fertilizer, selected seed, pesticides,
herbicides), seven of these centers for the Government's
National Cereal Board (OC) and eight for service
cooperatives (COCEBLE and CCGC).
3.03               Project Management:  The Ministry of Agriculture's Central
Commission for Agricultural Development (CCDA), located at the Ministry's
headquarters in Tunis, was thought to be the organization best suited to
coordinate activities of the separate agencies involved in each component and
was given primary responsibility for the project. The head of the CCDA, i.e.,
the project manager, was to chair a Project coordination committee,
responsible for periodic liaison with the various entities involved in project
execution. Day-to-day management was to be handled by a deputy project
manager (agricultural engineer) leading a project implementation unit (PIU)
within the CCDA, including a chief accountant and an agricultural economist.
Field management of the project was to be handled by the regional branches of
the CCDA--the regional commissions for agricultural development (CRDA)--
located in the four provinces. New staff in each CRDA were to include a
deputy responsible for extension and for project management and execution, and



an accountant. The deputy was to coordinate the extension system from
subject-matter specialists to field extension agents. Subject-matter
specialists from the crop production, animal production, the Department of
Assistance to Small and Medium Size Farmers (DAPMEA), and the National
Livestock and Range Agency (OEP), located at the CRDA level, were to develop
extension messages, help train extension agents and answer specialized
questions. For farmer contact, one multipurpose extension agent was to deal
with groups of about 250 farmers in place of the old system under which
farmers were contacted by several crop specific agents.
3.04        Proiect Cost and Financing:  At appraisal, total project cost
(including taxes and duties of about US$9.7 million) was estimated at US$37.9
million, of which $16.8 million was in foreign exchange. The Bank Loan of
US$15 million was to finance 100* of the foreign exchange cost of the project,
excluding seasonal inputs (US$1.6 million) which were to be financed by the
National Bank of Tunisia (BNT), and technical assistance for the farm
management center to be financed on grant terms by Belgium (about US$0.2
million). The balance of funds was to be provided by the Government, BNT and
Project beneficiaries. The Bank Loan was thus to finance 40% of the total
Project cost. It was to be made to the Government and utilized by the
Ministry of Agriculture (for extension, research, farm machinery testing,
Project management and training, technical assistance and studies), by the
Ministry of Equipment (for rural roads), and passed on as a grant to the OEP
for livestock services and under a subsidiary loan agreement to BNT for
credit.
4.    Proiect Design
4.01        The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not anticipate any major
project risks due to the fact that the technology of cereals/livestock
integration to be introduced under the project had been tested at an
experimental and demonstration farm, operated with the assistance of the
Belgian aid program since 1969, and that some farmers adopting recommended
cultural practices in the area had obtained substantial yield increases for
field crops and animal products. In addition, the project was to focus on
larger farmers who were receptive to advice.
4.02        The Project risk of low adoption rates of improved technology by
farmers was, however, underestimated. The SAR failed to identify the absence
of a formal linkage mechanism between research and extension as a project
risk. With the benefit of hindsight, it is now clear that the timing of
project appraisal (1984) was unfortunate, since significant policy and
institutional reforms took place between 1986 and 1991, which considerably
affected the Project set-up and its intended objectives. The project design
was also weakened due to the over-emphasis given initially to resolving
complex policy issues (milk and meat marketing and fertilizer distribution
margins), delays in preparation of master plans, the top down management
approach adopted and the inclusion of a credit component which ran contrary to
ASAL reforms.



- 5 -
4.03        Prolect ManaQement:  The project was supposed to be managed by a
stable team of experienced and competent staff headed by a director entirely
devoted to the project. However, the team appointed at the CCDA (a project
manager, deputy project manager, agricultural economist and accountant) did
not have sufficient authority (they were placed at the same level in the
hierarchy as the technical directorates), were not assigned exclusively to the
project, and did not have the means (staff, vehicles, telephone) required to
supervise the multiple institutions responsible for project components. Their
effectiveness was hampered by repeated staff changes caused by 4
reorganizations of the Ministry of Agriculture 1 and lack of an extension
coordinator (extension consultants were not hired as covenanted). The first
deputy project manager, who was an extension specialist, left towards the
beginning of the project and was replaced by an agro-economist. The
agricultural economist and accountant left in 1990 and were never replaced.
Initially, there were meetings of the coordination committee to bring together
the various technical units, but these were not pursued. In addition, the
CCDA was subjected to the bureaucratic restrictions of government ministries
in Tunisia. It had to obtain approval of the national or agricultural
procurement committee for procurement of goods and appointment of consultants,
and was often unable to procure vehicles and other equipment because of import
restrictions. The lack of a coordinating entity for the project led to
enormous implementation difficulties.
4.04        Master plans:  While the input distribution and milk collection
and distribution studies were completed by appraisal of the project or shortly
thereafter, there were substantial delays in starting the preparation of
national master plans for research and extension and for mechanization because
of difficulties in recruitment of consultants. Therefore, the project
proposals dealing with research and extension and farm mechanization did not
benefit from the first conclusions of the master plan studies, and the poor
design of these components (particularly research) reflects the lack of
thorough preparation.
4.05        Policy Issues:  During project preparation, it was felt that the
project's objectives in increasing meat and dairy production could not be
achieved without improved milk and meat marketing facilities. As private and
1/     - In 1987, an extension directorate was created in a new Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Processing while the extension component of the
project was being managed by the CCDA in the Ministry of Agriculture.
- In 1988, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Processing was dissolved
and its functions transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture.
- In 1989, under the Ministry of Agriculture's program of
decentralization, the CCDA was abolished and the PIU relocated to the
Directorate General of Plant Production.
- In 1990-91, the Agency for Agricultural Extension and Training (AFVA)
and the Institution of Agricultural Research and Higher Education
(IRESA) were created to streamline research and extension activities at
national level.



- 6 -
cooperative initiative was not providing adequate services, the project would,
through the concerned public agencies, supply the necessary infrastructure.
The marketing facilities (milk collection and input resale centers) would
subsequently be operated by a service cooperative. Second, during
negotiations, the Government agreed to take all necessary measures in order to
ensure that adequate incentives would be given to private dairy processing
plants and meat merchants who were faced with unfair competition from the
public sector and to improve the timeliness of input distribution
(fertilizers) to farmers. Targeted objectives were to be pursued under the
ASALs.
4.06        Under ASAL-II, meat and powdered milk imports were liberalized.
The Government also eliminated meat subsidies on its own. The consumer price
of milk remains heavily subsidized and fixed, although in January 1993,
through the First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL-I) and the Economic and
Financial Reforms Support Loan (EFRSL), the subsidy has been extended from
only reconstituted milk to include local processed milk as well, improving the
competitive position of local milk. Liberalized fertilizer margins have led
to greater private activity in the market, increasing reliability of supply
for farmers.
4.07        Government parastatals (the OC and OEP) started to withdraw from
input and marketing activities in 1986 before the necessary incentives had
been put in place to attract private sector involvement. The milk collection
center was built under the project but not equipped and the animal resale
centers had to be cancelled because no cooperative or private enterprises
could be found to manage them in the absence of the public sector. During the
project, major milk industrial plants continued to have every incentive to buy
imported milk powder to produce reconstituted milk because it benefited from a
large subsidy and sold well to consumers. They were thus not inspired to
develop a local milk collection network. The failure of meat production
activities is more of an enigma as producer prices were liberalized in 1985
and rose rapidly after that (at least until import liberalization in 1992).
Moreover, the Government does not intervene to purchase meat in the rest of
the country and its lack of participation in the project area should not have
had an important impact. The region was traditionally cereal and/or mutton
producing, and farmers were not familiar with technical aspects of beef
production; under the project, moreover, extension messages focused on crops,
to the detriment of livestock, and credit was not available as needed. These
factors may explain farmers' inability to compete while other regions managed
under similar circumstances.
4.08          Project preparation missions also failed to take into account
the negative impact on milk and meat production as the Government embarked on
its import liberalization program and farmers had to face world prices and
lower subsidies.
4.09        Credit: Initially (1985), Bank financing for credit had been
excluded from the Loan on the grounds that the credit needs of the project
could be met out of the Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1885-TUN), a
future fourth Line of Credit to BNT, or out of Government's subsidized credit



- 7 -
program (FOSDA). Another reason for the Bank not to finance credit was the
slow progress on agricultural credit issues (interest rates, recoveries) under
the Third Agricultural Credit Project at the time. During negotiations of the
NW Agriculture Production Project, the Government committed itself to further
progress on these issues. On this basis, it was agreed to include credit
financing under the Loan. Later, under the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 2865-TUN), good progress was made with policy reforms, including
interest rate adjustment to market rates and phasing out Government subsidized
credit (FOSDA). However, the credit component as designed under the Project
contained substantial weaknesses in lending procedures and credit approval
process. First, BNT had not been invited to the negotiations of the Loan;
thus, the subsidiary agreement signed by Government in October 1986, had to be
amended in December 1987, to take into account the revised terms and
conditions being worked out under the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project. BNT
was also not given primary responsibility for lending decisions, as the credit
scheme was in the hands of Government, and it was expected to administer it as
any Government subsidized credit scheme which the Bank and Government had
agreed to phase out. For this reason, and because credit funds were available
under the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project under improved terms and
conditions consistent with ongoing reforms, it had little incentive to use the
credit funds of the project. As reforms proceeded, there was no more
justification for a separate credit component for the project. A decision to
cancel about half of the component was, however, only made in January 1989
(para 5.17). With regard to the input resale centers, cooperatives or the
private sector could not be found to manage them in the absence of the public
sector which had withdrawn (para. 5.17) and those directed credit funds were
also not used.
5.   Pro-ect Imvlementation
5.01        Due to the time taken to recruit consultants to establish the
project accounting system, Loan effectiveness was delayed by about a year.
Other problems affecting project start-up included delays in preparation of
the sub-loan agreement for credit with BNT and rural road studies, and
administrative procedures which slowed procurement progress and selection of
consultants. The project never recovered from these initial delays. This was
due to weak organization and management, a national freeze on staff
recruitment, import restrictions which continued to affect procurement of
vehicles and equipment, and slow and inadequate mobilization of the credit
component (para. 5.17). These problems, combined with a devaluation in the
Dinar, led to a drastic reduction in total project costs (from $38 million to
$10 million). In January 1989, a first cancellation of US$6.2 million ($4.5
million from the credit component) took place. The project should have been
restructured at the time and the credit component cancelled. An additional
US$2.9 million was cancelled at Loan closing, i.e. a total of $9.1 million.
In Part II, the Borrower mentions (para. 5) that the Bank refused to honor a
few disbursement applications. This was because they (three applications)
were received after the closing date.



- 8 -
5.02        Extension Organization:  A major weakness for the extension
program was the lack of an extension coordinator at central level (para. 4.03
and 5.05).
5.03        At regional level, the deputies who were to coordinate extension
were not assigned full-time to the project, since they were also the regional
representatives of the plant production department, did not coordinate their
activities with those of the separate livestock department and, except perhaps
for the deputy in Beja, were occupied by other projects in the area. They
were not successful in providing extension agents with the support of a
multidisciplinary team and forging links with research.
5.04        At field level, the extension agents were involved in other
projects and in a variety of administrative and data collection activities
which took over 70% of their time. They visited farmers occasionally whenever
they had the time and the means of transport.
5.05        The need to strengthen extension coordination at the central level
became important when an extension directorate was formed in a separate
Ministry of Agriculture Production and Food Processing in 1987, while the
extension component of the project was being managed by the CCDA in the
Ministry of Agriculture.  Although this new ministry was dissolved in 1988,
extension coordination continued to be an issue because of the departure in
1988 of the deputy director who was also an extension specialist. Bank
supervision missions made repeated recommendations to appoint, as covenanted
in the Loan Agreement, a long-term extension consultant in the project
execution unit to assist with extension organization at field level. However,
project management recruited instead, towards the end of the project, a short-
term extension consultant for training of national staff on extension
organization, group communications and skills gap analysis. In 1989,
following a reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, the CCDA was
abolished and the project implementation unit was relocated to the Directorate
General of Plant Production which was involved in the preparation of the
National Research and Extension Project. This new decentralized arrangement
worked better because CRDA extension staff were from the Plant Production
Directorate and their commitment to the project grew with their increased
responsibility. Finally, in order to further streamline research and
extension services, the Agency for Agricultural Extension and Training (AFVA)
and the Institution of Agricultural Research and Higher Education (IRESA) were
created in 1990 at the central level of the Ministry of Agriculture to help in
the planning, control, monitoring and evaluation of research and extension.
5.06        The Extension Approach: The 15 CTVs which existed in the project
area were to serve as pilot units where the new extension methodology was to
be introduced and tested. As a first step, the CTVs were to make a survey of
the area which they covered and select a small number of contact farmers
eligible for support under the project (minimum farm size 10 ha). In
consultation with the farmers, and with the help of CRDA specialists, farm
development plans were to be established and requirements for on-farm
improvements mainly for integration of livestock (stables, sheds, etc.) and
short-term credit identified. Special credit agents in the CRDA were to



- 9 -
assist farmers with preparation of credit requests and direct them to the
appropriate credit institution. Practical demonstrations were to be conducted
on these model farms and this was expected to attract the participation of
neighboring farmers. The contact groups thus formed were to be visited by the
extension agents every two weeks.
5.07        In reality, the extension methodology consisted of setting up
annually 1 or 2 demonstration plots in 1 or 2 farms with input supply provided
by the Government. As was the custom during annual fairs organized by
Government, various farmers from the districts participated in these
demonstrations about twice during the season seeking advice on harvesting,
weed control and fertilizer application. However, demonstrating cultural
techniques in a large plot in one or two areas once or twice a year limited
the benefits to few farmers. There was little participation of neighbors and
contact groups were usually not formed. The system of supplying farmers with
seeds, pesticides and sometimes machinery, labor, was not effective since the
farmer contributed little besides his land and was likely to be passive to the
whole operation. Due to the lack of interaction with farmers, extension
agents did not know how much of the technology was adopted and reasons for
non-adoption. In addition, little attempt was made to review whole farms on
an agro-economic basis to help farmers increase their financial income through
further investments, particularly in livestock.
5.08        Thus, the T&V approach whereby only a few farmers were contacted
with the expectation that the message would be spread around, did not work.
The difficulties in mobilizing the credit component (para. 4.09 and 5.17) and
lack of links with research (para 5.18) contributed in large part to this poor
performance.
5.09        In addition to the regular extension activities concerned with
small farmers, the project included the establishment in Beja of a farm
management center to advise large (over 100 ha) farmers and UCPs. This
activity was financed by a Belgian Government grant.
5.10        The Beja farm management center was established in November 1986
by the ex-project coordinator for the Belgian technical assistance team in
charge of the Fretissa project. The Beja center selected farms based on size
(100 ha at least) and interested in technical progress and in livestock/crop
integration. The tunisian team consists of eight staff, of which a secretary,
a driver, a technician and 5 scientists. The Belgian team consists of 4 of
which an agronomist and head of team, a farm machinery, plant production and
livestock specialist. In addition to the experts, the grant financed
vehicles, computer hardware and software, 5 short term and 4 long term
fellowships. Given the wide area covered by the farm management center,
separate small advisory units headed by two agro-economists were established
in the other governorates, while the main team concentrated on Beja. The Beja
center also provided equipment and vehicles to the other 3 centers out of the
budget previously allocated for cooperative establishment (para. 5.25).
5.11        During the course of the Project, the Beja center assisted about
75 farms of which most were cooperative farms (UCP). Few of the larger



- 10 -
private farmers requested advice as they were reluctant to release cost and
benefit data. The center assisted farmers with improved farm planning,
budgeting, farm machinery operation and maintenance, and advice on cultural
techniques to maximize production (rotating cereals with other crops, better
farming practices and integrating crop and livestock activities). The team
also assisted with the preparation of credit requests to BNT. Given the high
demand for its services, the Belgian Government agreed to extend its support
of the farm management center until December 1992. The 1991 annual report of
the farm management center mentions that livestock activities suffer from the
lack of health care, knowledge of techniques, high costs, since most of the
purebred animals are imported, and from the fact that livestock requires
continuous work while well-off farmers are often absentee farmers.
5.12        Extension Infrastructure and Means: To allow the mobility of
extension staff, the project was to provide 58 cars to staff in the extension
centers (CTV), the project coordinators at CRDA level and the Beja farm
management center, as well as 4 minibuses for the transport of farmers. Due
to procurement difficulties, by the end of the Project, 38 cars and one
minibus were purchased. In addition, 10 tricycles were purchased which, when
tested by the CRDAs, were not found to be suitable for the road conditions in
rural areas. In Beja, the extension agents had the use of the car 2 or 3 days
a week but the other CTVs had much less access to transport. Furthermore,
some of the project vehicles were used by other agencies for non-project
activities and there were gasoline restrictions. As a result, farmers were
not visited regularly and often did not know the date scheduled for the
extension agent's visits. The lack of transport had a negative influence on
the effectiveness of the extension service as a whole.
5.13        Given that certain CTVs were constructed by other projects, only
12 (instead of 18) new extension centers were constructed and 13 (instead of
15) existing ones were expanded. Some of these extension centers are located
in rural areas and are called CRAs (Centres de Rayonnement Agricole) to
distinguish them from CTVs which are located at the sub-regional or district
level and supervise 3 to 6 CRAs.
5.14        The CTVs were also provided as foreseen with audiovisual material
and agricultural equipment for demonstration plots. In addition, although
not originally included in the project, the 4 regional soil and conservation
units were provided with equipment in order to help extension staff with
demonstrations to farmers of the benefits of contour strip farming as a means
to reduce erosion, increase moisture retention and increase yields. A total of
18,000 ha were treated under the project.
5.15        Extension traininq: The local training of extension agents (45)
took place in accordance with the project mainly at the Sidi Thabet
agricultural training center. The first training sessions were on
agricultural development, planning and credit. Further training sessions
included the physical environment, farm management and budgeting,
mechanization, communications techniques, extension methodology, farmers'
attitudes & objectives. However, most of the training was irrelevant and



- 11 -
academic since it did not result from diagnosis of farmers' actual problems
and constraints at the field level.
5.16        The overseas training for supervisors and subject-matter
specialists did not take place given the difficulties at the time in obtaining
approval for foreign technical assistance in Tunisia.
5.17        Credit: In addition to the lack of incentives for BNT to use the
credit component of the project (para. 4.09), credit demand by farmers for on-
farm investments was low because of the drought of 1988/89 which affected
their ability to repay past loans and their willingness/ability to invest,
particularly for farm machinery. Despite this slowdown in the rural economy,
some cooperatives and large farmers in the project area in good standing with
BNT were able to obtain credit under the normal BNT terms and conditions.
Some small and medium farmers also benefitted from the FOSDA credit being
phased out. In addition, the credit funds directed to the input resale
centers were not used. This was because of the OC's withdrawal from input
distribution in conformity with ASAL-I and the indebtedness of the
cooperatives CCGC and COCEBLE which made them ineligible at the time for
credit by BNT or any other bank. As of January 1989, as part of the larger
cancellation of $6.2 million (para. 5.01), loan funds allocated to the credit
component were reduced from the original $8 million to $3.5 million.
Disbursement of the credit component finally started to pick up when the Bank
approved in November 1990 BNA's 2 request to utilize the undisbursed balance
of funds for credit to refinance loans made for the period 1989 to 1991 to
creditworthy farmers eligible under the Project. By the end of the project, a
total of about $2.7 million was disbursed for credit, i.e. about a third of
the original allocation. Most of the credit was used for purchase of
agricultural and irrigation equipment.
5.18        Research:  In the design of the Project, formal links between
research and extension were not established. There were no contacts between
research and extension and no use of joint field trials as foreseen in the
SAR. Research priorities continued to be decided at the central level and
were not tailored to farmers' constraints and needs. This was a major flaw of
the extension system of the Project.
5.19        The Project was to provide equipment and facilities for the
research stations in the area, in particular for the animal production
research station of the National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRAT)
at El Afareg in Beja. The project rehabilitated the El Afareg station by
providing a laboratory building and equipment for crop and pasture
experiments, constructing two small houses for technicians, farm equipment for
general farm operations (tractors and attachments), and constructing a well
for irrigation and cattle. Unfortunately, the rehabilitation of El Afareg
station was not completed by the closing date. There remains construction of
a stable and milking shed which were started in 1990; the lodgings lack water
and electricity; and although there is a lab with equipment, there are no
2/    BNT's new name following a merger with BNDA in 1989.



- 12 -
scientists to conduct the experiments because of the difficulty to attract
people to live in isolated rural areas.   Due to lack of staff and operating
funds, the head of El Afareg station was unable to conduct any experimental
work.
5.20        Farm Machinery Testing: In order to ensure that Project farmers
and UCPs are advised of the most appropriate farm machinery to maximimize
productivity, the Project was to set up a farm machinery testing facility,
provide consultants to help choose the type and source of farm implements to
be tested, devise the methodology for on-farm comparative testing and
supervise the implementation of the testing program. The Project was also to
provide for the purchase of the implements to be tested and small equipment
required for the testing program. Given the difficulty in recruiting
consultants, a list of agricultural testing equipment was finally prepared in
collaboration with CRGR (Centre de Recherche du Genie Rural) by a consultant
recruited by the Bank for the appraisal of the Research and Extension Project.
However, due to procurement problems, only a part of the equipment, consisting
of a moldboard plow, a disc harrow, chiesel, and 2 cultivators, was purchased
in 1991 for the CRGR at the research station of El Afareg. This was
unfortunate since CRGR had previously done a lot of work and had many
prototypes ready to be made and tested. The experimental work on farm
machinery and implements with particular emphasis on tillage, seeding and
fertilizer application will be done under the Research and Extension Project
using a multidisciplinary approach, involving agronomists, soil scientists as
well as farm machinery specialists.
5.21        Livestock services: As foreseen, the three animal health centers
at Dahmani, Testour and Teboursouk were constructed. Only a part of the
equipment and 8 of 10 vehicles planned for 8 existing dairy cattle artificial
insemination posts were bought and made available to the centers.
The milk collection center was built but not equipped and the animal purchase
centers were not constructed due to the disengagement of the OEP from
management of marketing centers, and the problems to find suitable cooperative
or private enterprises to manage these centers, given their lack of
profitability at the time.
5.22        Roads: Under the Project, 110 km of feeder roads were to be
upgraded but this program was reduced to 92 km (39 km Beja, 19 km Jendouba and
34 km Le Kef) due to financing of 18 km of roads in Siliana from other
sources. The rural roads component was delayed by several factors. The roads
study commissioned by the Ministry of Agriculture in 1988 had to be amended
because it did not include an economic evaluation, as required in the Loan
Agreement, and was then rejected twice by the procurement committee on the
grounds that it was the Ministry of Equipment's responsibility. A technico-
economic study was finally prepared and the contract was approved in September
1989. Works started in December 1989 but were delayed by land expropriation
issues, which had not been taken into account, and by poor weather conditions,
particularly in 1990/91. Unfortunately, the poor weather conditions persisted
throughout the period of the extension of the closing date of the Loan, and
thus, by the end of the Project in December 1991, works were not completed but
had stopped. While roads in El Kef were practically completed, only about 70W



- 13 -
of road rehabilitation works in B6ja, and 80W in Jendouba, had been executed.
The Ministry of Equipment is expected to complete the works.
5.23        Training, Technical Assistance and Studies: Due to the preference
given in Tunisia for local technical assistance, in August 1989, the Bank
approved an amendment of the Loan Agreement whereby consulting services were
to be financed at 100% (instead of 80% local and 100% foreign). However, of
the original $500,000 allocation for technical assistance, only $94,000 was
disbursed. The low use of consultant funds is a result of the overall poor
implementation and design of the project.
5.24        The funding for the local training of extension staff and the farm
management center was used as foreseen. The head of El Afareg research
station also underwent training for six months at a research station
development and management training course in Mexico. However, on his return,
this was not followed as planned by a consultancy on establishment of support
stations in Tunisia. In addition, a major project weakness was the lack of a
long-term extension management consultant to help make the extension service
operational.
5.25        Four studies were done under the Project.  Two were for the rural
roads technico-economic studies (para. 5.22), the third was to set up an
accounting system for the Project (para. 5.27) and the fourth, not originally
included, was for preparation of the Research and Extension Project. A study
of the treatment of straw to improve its value as animal feed was dropped
because it had been carried out by INRAT, and the study to assist with the
development of service cooperatives in the Project area was to be undertaken
by the Ministry of Agriculture with its own funding. Some computer equipment
was purchased for the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system
which was never established (para. 5.26).
5.26        Monitoring and Evaluation: The agricultural economist in the PIU
was to monitor the physical execution of the project and achievement of
production and policy objectives, according to key indicators outlined in the
technical support volume of the SAR. Due to the departure of the agricultural
economist in 1988 and lack of a replacement, no consistent monitoring and
evaluation system was developed.   The impact of extension could not be
measured because the pre-project situation had not been assessed and data had
not been collected in the field. The semi-annual reports submitted by the
Borrower were on the status of physical construction, extension training and
the financial accounts of the Project.
5.27        Accounting System: The design of a satisfactory project accounting
system was a condition of effectiveness of the Loan. After long delays, an
accounting firm was selected and financed a study to set up a system.
However, the accounting system was not set up as foreseen due to the lack of
computer equipment, and overlapping responsibilities of the accountants in the
CRDAs and the chief accountant in the PIU, who left in 1990 before the first
audit mission took place. A Bank mission in 1990 following up on lack of
audit compliance helped the PIU to organize their accounts (no separate
accounts were kept for the Project) and the first consolidated audit report



- 14 -
was prepared in 1991 covering the years 1988-1990. The audit report for 1991
accounts was provided in early 1993.
6.  Project Results
6.01          The project did not, as originally intended, serve as a model to
help direct the preparation of a National Research and Extension Project.
Planning of the extension service was not based on a prior diagnosis of
farmers' varying needs and constraints. The principle of a single line of
command from central and regional management to local extension agents was not
adhered to as the project tried to superimpose its own extension agenda on the
existing national extension program. In addition to the organizational
problems which worsened with each reshuffle within the Ministry of Agriculture
(para. 4.03 and 5.05), the effectiveness of the extension program was hampered
by lack of well-motivated and trained staff, the absence of links with
research, difficulty to mobilize the credit component, and insufficient
financial means.
6.02        Consequently, the extension agents had only occasional, irregular
contacts with a limited nuxmber of farmers, and contact groups were not usually
formed; little attempt was made to review whole farms on an agro-economic
basis to help farmers increase their financial income through further
investments, particularly in livestock; feedback from farmers was not sought
and, therefore, the extension agents did not know the impact of their
recommendations on farming systems and behavior.
6.03        As a result of these shortcomings as well as three successive
years of drought from 1987-89, the Project fell far short of its objectives in
having a direct effect on farmer incomes and productivity increases (para.
6.05). On the other hand, the Beja farm management center which catered to
the extension needs of the large farmers was successful and the Belgian
Government has extended its support to the center for another year.
6.04        In addition, even though most of the physical targets were also
not achieved due to endless procurement problems, the project has made some
improvements in the services to farmers through the construction of extension
centers, roads, the provision of research and livestock services, vehicles and
equipment. By the end of the Project, only $5.9 million was disbursed (40W of
the Loan) mainly due to the low utilization of the large credit component.
The problems encountered with the extension approach of the Project have
provided valuable lessons which have been incorporated in the design of the
National Agricultural Research and Extension Project.
6.05        Crop and Livestock Production:  The main effect expected from the
Project was an increase in crop and livestock production and farmer incomes.
However, the pre-project situation was not known (no diagnostic surveys
carried out) and agricultural statistics in the project area were not
monitored, and thus it is impossible to measure any impact of the Project on
agricultural productivity or incomes. Based on data published by the
Agricultural Statistics Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, production of
major foodgrains and livestock products in the 4 governorates of the Project



- 15 -
has increased between 1986 and 1991, mainly due to higher yields. However,
the Project was meant to cover only a part of the governorates and thus no
comparison with SAR projected increases in production and yields could be
made. In addition, good results during the last two years of the Project can
mainly be attributed to favorable climatic conditions compared to four years
of drought from 1986 to 1989, and it is virtually impossible to separate what
the Project did from the CRDAs' overall agricultural development program for
the NW area at the time. Due to the absence of data, no economic rate of
return calculation was attempted for the Project.
7.    Prolect Sustainability
7.01        In order to ensure continuity, effective from Project closing, the
research and extension activities initiated by this Project were brought under
the umbrella of the Agricultural Research and Extension Project which will
continue the program initiated of strengthening research and extension through
provision of facilities, equipment, vehicles, staff and training.
Experimental work on various types of farm machinery and implements which
could not be implemented would take place under the Research and Extension
Project. Research would continue its work on forage crops, livestock and
field crops complementarity and increased attention would be given to socio-
economic aspects in order to provide policy makers, extension staff and the
farming community with cost and benefit data on proposed new techniques and
methods. The new decentralized extension structure with a lean management
team at the center and planning, decision making and implementation at field
level will ensure its effectiveness and sustainability. Extension staff would
be trained to work with groups and to use mass media and other modern
communication methods to reach a wider audience while reducing costs.   By
conducting diagnostic surveys, research and extension staff would identify the
various categories of farmers and determine how best to satisfy their
information needs. In future, as farmers are better able to manage their
assets and make a profit, they could start to become organized as cooperatives
or associations and assume increasing responsibility for extension. This
would be in line with Government's strategy to increasingly transfer
responsibility for extension to the private and cooperative sectors, leaving
the public sector to focus on small subsistence farmers in remote areas which
are likely to continue to need assistance.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01        As mentioned earlier, the Project had some serious design flaws
(the credit component, in particular). In hindsight, some of the risks which
were to occur to the Project could have been foreseen and avoided by
scheduling the Project at a later date once a dialogue on pricing and policies
was established with Government (after ASAL-I or II). Although the
organizational problems were mostly out of its control, the Bank did not
follow up early enough on some important issues, for example, non-compliance
with audit covenants and lack of a project monitoring and evaluation system.
The serious shortcomings of the project were not brought to management
attention until 1991 when a new mission rated the project a "3". After
appraisal, a mission composed of an economist and financial analyst was



- 16 -
launched to assist with Project start-up and a total of 16 supervision
missions were led mainly by an agronomist with minimal participation of
livestock, extension or financial staff, and this may have contributed to the
poor performance of those components. The missions concerned themselves
mainly with disbursement, construction of physical infrastructure and
staffing. No attempt was made to assess the project's impact on production
and farmers' incomes, disregarding the analysis of project impact. It was
only in the last two years of the Project, in the context of the preparation
of the Research and Extension Project, that a serious attempt was made to
render the extension service more effective by improvements proposed in
extension organization and training. The Bank's decision to extend the Loan
closing date by six months did not allow completion of the rural roads because
of poor weather conditions in winter of 1991.
9.    Conclusions and Lessons Learned
9.01        The project was too ambitious in scope and became impossible to
implement once the institutional structure fell apart. Given that weaknesses
in design became apparent from the start, the Bank should have recommended an
early restructuring of the project and cancellation of the credit component.
9.02        The lessons which can be derived from the project are the
following:
1) project design should not be over-complex and close cooperation
and coordination within and among the various concerned agencies of the
Borrower is necessary for effective implementation of multi-component
Projects;
2) more effective use of extension personnel will be possible
only if they are trained to take account of socioeconomic factors as well as
technical considerations in dealing with farmers;
3) in addition, money can be saved and the coverage of scarce
staff extended by taking advantage of media and other modern communication
methods;
4) a strong linkage mechanism between extension and research
institutions has to be established and the availability of appropriate
technology ensured;
5) there is a need to develop a participatory approach to
planning which promotes analysis, programming and evaluation by farmers,
supported by researchers and extension staff. If this is done by homogeneous
groups of farmers, it should result in research and recommendations more
relevant to the needs of all important sub-categories of farmers;
6) an appropriate project monitoring and evaluation system has
to be in place from project start-up, to assess project progress and impact,
and take early corrective measures;



- 17 -
7) experience has shown that best practices call for not
including specific credit components in agricultural development projects, but
to rely on the rural banking system to finance credit needs under the
projects. In particular, it is counterproductive to have credit components
targeted to a limited number of beneficiaries in a given area with terms,
conditions and lending criteria differing widely from the terms and conditions
of the lead credit system of the country, creating distortions in the credit
distribution and recovery system. This lesson has been incorporated in
follow-on agriculture projects, for example the Gabes Irrigation Project which
met its credit needs through the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project.
8) the Ministry of Equipment should be given responsibility for
road components in all sectors.
9) the successful implementation of a complex project requires not
only continuity of staff but the inclusion of a diversity of skills in the
supervision team.
9.03        The above lessons have been incorporated in projects which are
ongoing or under preparation: the NW Mountainous Areas Development Project for
lessons 1 and 5 (participative approach), the Agricultural Research and
Extension Project for lessons 2 to 6, the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project
for lesson 7. The lack of monitoring and evaluation has plagued the majority
of agriculture projects under implementation. The Agricultural Sector
Investment Loan proposes to include a study to establish an integrated
monitoring and evaluation system for the 1994-1996 investment program of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Finally, roads components are, in recent years,
being implemented systematically by the Ministry of Equipment (lesson 8) and
increased attention is being given generally in the Bank to ensuring effective
supervision of projects (lesson 9).
9.04        Follow-up on Lessons Learnt: As a result of the reorganization of
the Ministry of Agriculture in 1989, the newly created CRDAs were given a
large degree of administrative, financial and executing autonomy. This will
ensure that development projects in future will have a more decentralized
management and procurement system which should help avoid the bottlenecks
encountered by line agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture.
9.05        Following reforms initiated under the ASAL, the Research and
Extension Project was prepared in 1990 to further rationalize research and
extension at national, regional and local levels. It proposes to cover the
first five-year phase of a ten-year research and extension program. The major
improvements proposed or undertaken under the Project are the following.
First, lead agencies to manage and coordinate research and extension, IRESA
and AFVA, were established. A major weakness under the NW Production project,
which was the lack of an extension unit at CRDA level providing farmers and
extension agents with the support of a multidisciplinary team, would be
corrected through the creation of central extension support units (DVPA) in
the 15 governorates concerned by the Research and Extention Project. Each
DVPA would have three arrondissements, covering, respectively, plant
production, animal production and financing and credit. In addition, in order



- 18 -
to relieve extension agents of non-extension related duties, the supervisory
staff (CTV) would be given more of an administrative role with
responsibilities for helping extension agents organize their work and
providing them with technical support. The extension agents would be given
the single function of transmitting technical information to and from farmers.
Strong links between extension and research would be developed so that
farmers' problems would be taken to research for solution, appropriate
research programs developed, and appropriate technologies taken from research
to farmers. Following the skill gaps analysis conducted under the NW
Production Project, only highly motivated extension staff with the required
qualifications would be recruited and trained.   An effective monitoring and
evaluation system would be established and staff trained in its use.
9.06        With regard to agricultural credit, the Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project with BNT/BNA was implemented in a satisfactory manner from 1988 to
1991 and it addressed institutional and financial improvements at the level of
BNT/BNA, the lead bank for agriculture in Tunisia. The PCR for this credit
project was issued in June 1992.
10.   Borrower Performance
10.01       The Borrower's performance during project implementation was not
always satisfactory. The lack of a coordinating entity with sufficient
authority, including control over budgetary resources, led to important delays
and shortfalls in project implementation. As the project began to be
implemented, and it became apparent that its organization and a number of its
objectives were in conflict with the Ministry of Agriculture's
decentralization program and reforms underway under the ASALs and the Fourth
Credit Project, the Government gave limited priority to the Project which
aggravated already existing procurement and recruitment problems. The
Borrower's compliance with loan covenants was not very good. The requirement
to establish permanent posts for extension and key staff in the project
implementation unit was not met and a first audit report was submitted only
towards the end of the Project. Monitoring and evaluation was also not
covered.
11.   Project Documentation and Data
11.01       The implementation volume of the SAR is voluminous and discusses
in detail pricing and marketing constraints for cereals and livestock. While
this was useful background information for the preparation of the ASAL-I, it
is apparent from reading the SAR that the Project components were hastily
prepared and it is not surprising that at appraisal and during implementation
a number of components had to be reduced and/or could not be implemented as
foreseen. A major flaw was that the implementation volume included so many
monitoring indicators that it was difficult to isolate which were the most
important ones to use in order to follow up on progress with the extension
system and adjust it if necessary. No data was thus collected to monitor the
impact of extension. Semi-annual progress reports on the physical
implementation of the project were, however, submitted to the supervision
missions.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2502-TUN)
Part II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



-  20  -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2502-TUN)
Part II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translated from the original French version)
This is Part II of the Completion Report of the Northwest
Agricultural Production Project which constitutes the Borrower's perspective.
This Part II is based on the data of a preliminary report prepared by the
Borrower and submitted to the World Bank in May 1992, as well as on the Parts
I and III prepared by the World Bank and submitted to the Borrower on April
23, 1993.
This Part II has been prepared according to the format recommended
by the Bank and includes six paragraphs as follows:
1.    Confirmation of factual data contained in Part III
The information presented in Part III of the report corresponds
with that of the preliminary report and reflects the Project's real situation
at completion. However, the following remarks are made in relation to Table
6: Status of Legal Covenants:
Section 3.01 (b)
Annual budget and financing plans were submitted to the Bank
regularly and in accordance with the Loan Agreement. Those budgets were
allocated to the Project as planned, except for the budget related to the
acquisition of vehicles for the extension component, which was reduced after
restrictions imposed on vehicle procurement at national level.
Section 3.04 (c)
The coordinating committee was established in accordance with the
Loan Agreement and held regular meetings. However, these meetings were
reduced following project management changes.
Section 3.05: Employment of management, accounting, and agricultural
Consultants
The following actions were taken in this context:
-     organization of a six-month training course for the head of a
research station in Mexico (CIMMYT Center) on "Research Stations
Development";
-     a Belgian consultant has been recruited under the Belgian
Technical Assistance to set up the operating methodology of the
management center, follow-up on actions taken and give technical
and management guidance for the center's activities ;
-     a study on the establishment of an accounting system for the
Project was undertaken by an accounting firm;



-  21  -
-     Since September 1987, steps were undertaken to recruit an
extension management consultant. However, this did not
materialize and Project management recruited instead an expert in
rural communications who prepared a training program and
implemented a training course for 45 heads of local extension
centers. This course dealt mainly with communication techniques
and extension activities planning.
Section 3.06: Management of the Milk Collection Center
The milk collection center was built but the World Bank did not
give its approval to equip it because of lack of interest of cooperatives or
the private sector to manage it.
Section 3.11
The implementation of the accounting system which had been
designed by an accounting firm required the acquisition of the necessary
means, in particular, the applications software. However, the software was
not purchased given that project management estimated that its cost was too
high.
2.    Remarks on the analysis contained in Part I
Para 4.03 - Proiect Management
The Project was supposed to be managed by a stable team of
experienced and competent staff; this team was supposed to be assisted by a
coordinating committee composed of the various institutions concerned with the
Project. However, due to the lack of an action plan defining the role and
responsibilities of each participant, this committee did not have the
efficiency required.
Para 4.07
The parastatal agencies (Cereals Agency and National Livestock and
Pasture Agency) did not in fact start to withdraw from input distribution and
marketing until after 1986. Their withdrawal is not yet completed and the
Cereals Agency continues, for example, to distribute fertilizers where needed,
until such time as the activity can be handed over to the private sector.
Para 4.08
In order to mitigate the negative impact of liberalization of
imported milk and meat on local production, mititgating measures have been
taken by the Government such as the imposition of tariffs as of 1991 on
powdered milk and meat imports.
Para 5.07
In fact, several demonstration plots and information days are
organized annually at the level of local extension centers, which cover crop
and livestock production.
Para 5.08
The "Training and Visits" method was certainly not fully adopted
by all the heads of CRAs. However, thanks in large part to the training
program implemented by the Project, some of the heads of CRAs which have the
necessary means were able to apply this method successfully.



-  22  -
With the establishment of the Agricultural Extension and Training
Agency, this method will be used by the other CRAs.
Para 5.15: Extension Training
The expert in rural communications prepared a training program for
the extension agents of the Project, which takes into account the training
deficiencies and is best adapted to the extension work.
This training was implemented under the form of workshops and
practical sessions attended by all extension agents working in the Project
area.
Para 6.02
An effort has been made by the Beja farm management center to set
up development plans for the large farms concerned by the Project. This task
has required the participation of a multidisciplinary team at engineer level,
and cannot be implemented by the heads of CRAs.
3.    Bank Performance
While Bank supervision missions were regular and followed the
Project from appraisal to completion, they concerned themselves mainly with
disbursements and construction of physical infrastructure rather than with the
assessment of the Project impact on agricultural production and farmers'
incomes. In effect, it would have been beneficial for supervision missions to
participate more efficiently in defining actions to be undertaken annually
while insisting on the continuous monitoring and evaluation of Project
activities.
Moroever, for improved efficiency, the profile of experts
participating in the missions should have corresponded to the different
specialties required to carry out the Project.
4.    Borrower Performance
The Project was implemented during a period of profound
organizational and institutional changes at the level of the Ministry of
Agriculture, which seriously hampered its execution. Nevertheless, the
Project was able to realize most of the physical actions foreseen in the Loan
Agreement (construction of CRAs, rehabilitation of rural roads, construction
of animal health and milk collection centers, etc..) as well as training
activities and certain studies. The lessons learned proved very useful for
the appraisal of the Research and Extension Project.
The lessons to be retained for the future may concern the
following aspects:
-     for reasons of convenience and management flexibility, specific
actions such as rehabilitation of rural roads or construction and
equipment of livestock and research facilities should be
undertaken directly by the concerned services; credit should be
granted directly to beneficiaries;



- 23 -
-     the Borrower should provide appropriate training to the
technicians in charge of Project execution, should ensure
continuity of staff and a proper match of their skills with those
required of the Project;
-     the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system should be
required of all projects.
5.    Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during Project Execution
Relations between the Bank and the Borrower were always friendly
and cooperative. However, the Bank refused to accept a few disbursement
applications, as well as the equipment of the milk collection center.
6.    Cofinancier's Performance
Under the NWAP Project (Beja Management Center), the "Agence
Generale de Cooperation et de Developpement Belge" sends a Belgian consultant
every six months to follow and assess the activities of the Project.
These consultancies should be allowed for Tunisian consultants who
could make a useful contribution to the smooth implementation of the Project
and should not remain the sole right of Belgian consultants.



-  24  -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2502-TUN)
Part III: STATISTICAL INFORMAT1ON



TABLE 1 : RELATED RANK LOAS
PROJECT                      YEAR OF    PURPOSE                                                           LOAN ANoCET         STATUS
APPROVAL
Third Highways               1978        To help Govt. fmptement a nationwide rurat development          S 32 mitlion         Loan closed 03/31/86.  PCR
(1601-TUN)                               program (improvements in rural roads, extension services        of which             issued 04/88.
and technical assistance to the Ministries of Public            S 6.7 milLion
Works and Agriculture).                                         cancelled
Third Agricultural           6/80        To increase agricultural production and incomes of small        S 30 miltion         Closed 12/31/86.  PCR
Credit Project                           and medium farmers as well as improve the system of                                   issued 06/91.
(Loan 1885-TUN)                          agricultural credit distribution by strengthening the
agricultural credit operations of BNT.
Northwest Rural              1981        First phase of a 15 year program to support rural                S 24 million         Closed 12/31/89.  PCR
Development Project                      development in the depressed Northwest region of                 of which             issued 10/91.
(Loan 1997-TUN)                          Tunisia.                                                        S 7.6 miltion
cancelled
Fifth Highway Project        1982        Helped Goverrnment continue to provide farmers with             S 35.5 mitlion       Closed 10/31/91.  PCR
(Loan 2108-TUN)                          improved roads, extension centers and farm credit.               of which            due 06/93.
$ 4 million
canceltled
Technical Assistance         1982        To assist Tunisian Govt. in increasing the number of             S 5 million          Loan closed 06/30/88.  PCR              Un
(2197-TUN)                               projects for the 6th Development Plan (1982-86) and in                                issued 12/90.
improving their quality in the areas of agriculture,
industry/exports and energy.
Agricultural Sector          1986        Supported the first phase of implementation of Govt.'s           $ 150 million        Loan closed 06/30/89.  PCR
Adjustment Loan (ASAL-1)                 program of agriculture sector reforms, within the                                     issued 01/91.
(2754-TUN)                               framework of a general macro-economic restructuring
program.
Fourth Agriculturat          1987        Promoted development of a financially sound rural credit        S 30 miLLion         Loan closed 11/91.  PCR
Credit Project                           system and financed credit to agriculture in support                                  issued 06/92.
(2865-TUN)                               of the Govt.'s Mediun-Term Adjustment Program (1987-91)
formulated in connection with ASAL-1.
Second AgricuLtural          1989        Supported the second phase of implementation of Govt.'s          S 84 million        Under inplementation.
Sector Adjustment                        medium-term agriculture sector adjustment program,
Loan (ASAL-I1)                           within the framework of a general macro-economic
(3078-TUN)                               restructuring program.
Agricultural Research        1990        Supports reorganization and strengthening of research            S 17 million         Under implementation.
and Extension Project                    and extension
(3217-TUN)



-26 -
Table 2: PROJECTTIMETABLE
PLANNED            ACTUAL
Identification                                    6883
Preparatlon Beginning                              9/83
Preparation End                                   12/83
Appraisal Mission                                  1184
Follow-up Appraisl                                 5/84
Loan Negotiations               U8/4           1/14 - 1/118/5
Board Approval                                    3/14/85
Loan Signature                  4/85              4/25/85
Loan Effectiveness             8/28/85            e/27/J8
Loan Closing                   6/30/91           12/31/91
Project Completion             6/30/90           12131/91



- 27 -
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
A. CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USS Million)
IBRD FISCAL YEAR APPRAISAL ESTIMATE ACTUAL % OF APPRAISAL
SEMESTER ENDING                                     ESTIMATE
FY 86
Dec. 1985              0.30           0.00
June 1988              0.45           0.00
Dec. 1986              0.75            0.00
June 1987              1.00           0.41          41%
FY 88
Dec. 1987              1.50           0.00
June 1G88              2.00            0.45         23%6
FY89O
Dec. 1988              2.00           0.22          11%
June 1988              2.00            0.52         26%
FY 90
Dec. 1989              2.00           0.43          22%
June 190               1.50           0.37          26%
FY 91
Dec. 1900              1.00           0.75          75%
June 1901              0.50           2.10         420%
FY 92
Dec. 1991              0.00           0.28
June 1902              0.00           0.30
TOTAL                 15.00           5.83          30%



- 28 -
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
B. PLANNED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY
PLANNED    REVISED 1/      ACTUAL   ACTUAL AS %
USS MILLION  US$ MILLION  USS MILLION  OF REVISED
Civil Works                       3.6       3.6           2.25            63%
Goods                             1.7       1.2           0.78            63%
Credit under Part G (i)           8.0       3.5           2.73            78%
and G (iii) of the Project
Consultants' Services             0.5       0.3           0.004           31%
Initial Deposit in                0.3 2/    0.0           0.0
Special Account
Unallocated                       0.0       0.2           0.0
TOTAL                            15.0       8.8           5.834           66%
1/ Original loan amount was reduced by US$6.2 m. as of January 24, 1989.
2/ By amendment of June 22, 1987, the initial deposit of US$0.3 was transferred to the
unallocated category and the special account was increased to US$0.8 m. to be used by
all categories of the Loan.



29   -
Table 4: PROJECT COSTS (USS MILLION)
ORIGINAL                    ACTUAL
VARIATION
(2-1)
LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL  LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL
(1)                        ( t2)
Extension                    1.7      1.2       2.9     1.16     1.09        2.24   -0.6
Research                     0.3      0.4       0.7     0.20     0.18        0.38   -0.32
Livestock Services           1.1      0.7       1.8     0.12     0.11        0.23   -1.57
Farm Machinery Testing       0.2      0.2       0.4     0.007    0.007       0.01   -0.38
Rural Roads                  2.4      1.9       4.3     2.06     1.40        3.46   -0.84
Project Implementation Unit  0.2      0.0       0.2     0.042    0.041       0.08   -0.11
Training, TA, Studies        0.5      1.3       1.8     0.022    0.18        0.20   -1.58
Agricultural Credit           8.2      6.6      14.8    0.95     2.73         3.68  -11.12
Contingencies                 6.5      4.5      11.1    0.032                0.032  -1 1.06
TOTAL                        21.1     16.8      38.0    4.58     6.74       10.32   -27.7
NOTE: Local expenditures were converted into US Dollars with the exchange rate of US$1 *0.9 TD.



_30 -
Table 5: PROJECT FINANCING
SOURCE                 PLANNED          ACTUAL
SAR
World Bank                15.0           5.8
Belgium                    0.3 '         2.0
BNA                        7.0           0.95
Beneficiaries              3.2            -
Government                12.5           3.52
TOTAL                     38.0           12.27
The Loan Agreement was amended on March 7, 1987
to reflect an Increase In the amount of the Belgian
grant to FB77,350,000 (about US$2 million).



TABLE 6: STATLIS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Covenant Loan         Subject                                                Deadline for           Status
Agreeamt                                                                     Compliance
Section 3.01(b)       Submission of approved annual budget and                    every year        Submitted, but financing inadequate due to lack of
financing plans.                                                              Borrower commitment.
Section 3.02(a)       Adoption and implementation of action plan on                06/30/85         Series of measures implemented on interest rates and
agricultural credit                                                           credit recovery under the ASALs and Fourth
Agricultural Credit.
Section 3.02(b)       Sub-loan agreement between borrower and BNT for               11/85           Amendment to agreement signed by Government and BNT
on-lending of loans proceeds to finance short-                                in December 1987 did not solve pending issues.
term, mediun and Long-term credit.
Section 3.02(c)       Sub-Loans to sub-borrowers to be in accordance                                Eligibility criteria defined, but no specific credit
with satisfactory eligibility criteria and with                               action plan was ever put into place because
credit action plan referred to in Section                                     conflicting with on-going rural credit reforms in
3.02(a) above.                                                                country.
Section 3.03          Borrower to appoint and maintain adequate                                     Not complied with due to overlapping
extension staff based on staffing plan submitted                              responsibilities of extension agents.
to Bank.
Section 3.04(a)       Appointment of Central Connissioner as Project                                CCDA was abolished in 1989 and Director of Field
Manager and provision of adequate resources and                               Crops appointed as Project Manager.  In 1990, lead
staff to the CCDA for the project.                                            agencies for extension and research, AFVA and IRESA,
were created.
Section 3.04(b)       Maintain Project Inplementation Unit (PIU) with           Effectiveness       Done initially, but staff not permanent and not
staff including Deputy Project Manager, Chief                                 assigned exclusively to the project.
Accountant and Agricultural Economist
Section 3.04(c)       Establishment of coordinating committee                       10/85           Done, however, meetings were held infrequently.
Section 3.04(d)       Appointment of regional commissioners as project              10/85           Done, however, regional commissioners had
managers.                                                                     overlapping responsibilities.
Section 3.04(e)       Appointment of deputy managers responsible for                10/85           Not done as foreseen because function of deputy
extension and project management and of                                       assigned to regional representatives of plant
accountants at CRDA level.                                                    production department.  Accountants at CRDA worked
on other ongoing projects in the area (see Section
4.02(a) and (b)).
Section 3.05          Efployment of management, accounting, and                                     Partially done.  However, a major problem was that
agricultural consultants.                                                     extension consultants to assist management with
extension program not recruited.



Covenant Lo          Sibject                                                 Deadline for              tus
Agreaent                                                                   I Conpliance
Section 3.06          Agreement with private or cooperative entity for                              Milk collecting center built, but not equipped due
leasing and management of milk collecting                                     to lack of interest of cooperatives or private
center, maximunm five years after center becomes                              sector to manage it.
operational.
Section 3.07          DGPC to furnish Bank with plans for upgrading                06/30/85         Initial study done at effectiveness did not include
rurat roads in next year including feasibility            and April 30        calcuLation of economic benefits.  The study had to
study and selection criteria (including an ERR)             each year         be redone and this contributed to the long delay in
satisfactory to the Bank.                              thereafter             roads execution.
Section 3.08          DGPC to maintain roads in the Project area.                At all times       Roads component not completed by Loan closing.
Ministry of Equipment to complete and maintain.
Section 3.09          Borrower to take all necessary measures to                                    Dealt with under ASAL I and 11 and later under the
ensure adequate incentives for milk, meat and                                 SAL I and EFRSL.
fertilizer marketing on a least-cost basis to
the Borrower.
Section 3.10          Milk collecting price margins to cover 0 & N                                  Not relevant since animal buying and milk collection
cost of collecting centers; animal buying center                              centers not supported under project.
price margins to cover 0 & M cost from the start
and to cover investment cost within 5 years from
start of operations.
Section 3.11          Measures to start installation of project                     03/86           Although accounting firm recruited by effectiveness,
accounting system with a view that it be fully                                accounting system not set up as foreseen due to lack
operational by 03/86.                                                         of computer and full-time staff.
Section 3.13(c)       Semi-annual progress reporting within two months          every 6 months      Done except that there was no information on
after each semester.                                                          progress with extension and its impact on farmers.
Section 3.13(e)       Borrower to furnish completion report.                                        Draft report on physical achievements of project
submitted to completion mission.
H
Section 4.02(a)       Borrow to maintain adequate accounts for the               At all times       Not complied with - separate accounts discontinued
and (b)               project including separate accounts for                                       during implementation by CRDA.  This led to the long
statements of expenditure.                                                    delay in producing a first consolidated audit report             D
and to the difficulty of the final audit mission to             cy
give an unqualified opinion on the financial
situation of the project.
0
section 4.02(c)       Borrower to furnish audit reports of annual                   Yearly          First consolidated report for 1987-90 accounts                   o
accounts and special account within six months                                provided November 1991.  Audit report for 1991
at the end of each year including separate                                    accounts received March 1993.
accounts by auditors on withdrawals based on
statements of expenditure.                                                                                                                     OL
_ AwOc



-  33   -
Table 7: MISSIONS
STAGE OF       MONTH/ NO. OF DAYS IN  SPECIALIZATIONS  RATINGS  NATURE OF
PROJECT CYCLE    YEAR   STAFF   FIELD    REPRESENTATED                    PROBLEMS
Identification      07/83
Preparation         09183      3        12   Economist
Agronomist
Livestock Specialist
10/83     1         6   Research Specialist
09/83     4        23   FAO/CP
Final Preparation   11/83      1        20   Economist
11/83     1         9   FAO/CP
Appraisal           01/84      2        22   Economist
Agronomist
01/84     2        10   Economist
Loan Officer
01/84     1         8   Economist
01/84     1         6   Livestock Specialist
02/84     1        10   Consultant
Follow-up Appraisal   05/84    2        10   Economist
Financial Analyst
Supervision         02/85      3        10   2 Economists
Agronomist
Supervision         12/85      1        20   Financial Analyst
Supervision         04/88      1        19   Agronomist
Supervision         08/86      2         9   Agronomist              2     Management
Economist
Supervision         12/86      1         2   Agronomist
Supervision         03/87      1        10   Agronomist              2     Management
Supervision         02/88      2        12   Agronomist              3     Management
Res. & Ext. Specialist
Supervision         04/88      1        11 a/ Consultant
Supervision         08/88      2        11   Agronomist              2     Management
Supervision          11/88     1         5   Agronomist              2     Management
Dev. Impact
Supervision         01/89      3         7 b/ Division Chief of
Technical Department
Financial Analyst
Credit Specialist
Supervision         04/89      2        16   Financial Analyst       2    Management
Extension Specialist         Dev. Impact
Supervision        0o/89       1         2   Extension Specialist
Supervision         10/89      1         9   Extension Specialist
Supervision         02/90      1        14   Agronomist              3     Management
1        9   Livestock Specialist          Dev. Impact
1        7   Extension Specialist          TA, Financial,
Procurement
Supervision         11/90      2         6   Agronomist
Economist
Completion          05/92      1         5   Operations Analyst   I
a/ of which partly spent on supervision of BNT4.
b/ of which spent on general credit issues and PANO credit component.



- 34 -
Table 8: STAFF INPUTS
PREPARA- APPRAI- NEGOTIA-    LOAN                   PROJECT       SUPER-
TION      SAL      TIONS  PROCESSING ARIS ADMINISTRATION   VISION  COFINANCING   PCR             TOTAL
FY 84     81.6     47.3                  0.2                                                                135.1
FY 85               7.3      16.2        9.4                  0.3          14.8                              48.0
FY 86                                                         0.9          4.4         0.1                    5.4
FY 87                                                         0.7          7.4         0.1                    8.2
FY8                                                                        8 .8                               8.8
FY 88                                                                      5.3                                5.3
FY90      22.3                                                             15.6                              37.9
FY 91                                                                      7.7                                7.7
FY 92                                                                      1.9                    5.4         7.3
TOTAL    103.9     54.6      16.2        15.6      0.0        1.9          65.9        0.2        5.4       263.7



-   35    -
Table 9: Project Results
KEY INDICATORS
ITEM                    UNIT                  SAR                           ACTUAL
TARGET                      ACHIEVEMENT
A. Staff Reauirements
1. Headquarters                         No       3 Professional Staff          3 staff not permanently assigned
(Project Implementation Unit)                                               to project. Agroeconomist and
accountant left in 1990 and were
never replaced.
2. CRDA deputies for extension +        No       1 deputy + 1 accountant in    Deputies and accountants not
accountants                                   each CRDA                      assigned exclusively to the project
with negative consequences.
3. Staff at Sub-regional extension      No       66 of which 15 were already in               16
centers (CTV)'                                place at beunning of project.
4. Staff at Local Extension Centers     No                                                    48
(CRA)_
B. Civil Works
1. Extension Centers                    No                                                   25
(a)  BOja                                                  6                               5
(b) Jendouba                                               9                               4
(c) El Kef                                                 9                               8
(d)  Siliana                                               9                               8
2. Construction of Animal Health        No
Centers
(a) Bqia                                                   2                               2
(b) Jendouba
(c) El Kef                                                 1                               1
(d) Silinna
3. Construction of Mk Collection        No                    1                               I
Center                                                 1 (El Kef)                      1 (El Kef)2
4. Rural Roads'                         km                   110                             92
(a) Beja                                                   39                              39
(b) Jendouba                                               19                              19
(c) El Kef                                                 34                              34
(d) Siliana                                                18
C. Vehicle and Eauioment
Procurement
1. Vehicles for Extension Centen        No                    _                               B
(a) Bqia                                                   11                               9
(b) Jendouba                                               14                               7
(c) El Kef                                                 13                               8
(d) S;liana                                                11                              14
2. Vehicles for artifial inseminations  No
centers                                                    10
(a) BDja                                                    2                               1
(b) Jendouba                                                2                               2
c)  El Kef                                                  3                               3
(d) Siliana                                                 3                               2



-36  -
Table  9  (Continued)
3. Audiovisual equipment for            No            1 set for each CRDA              1 set for each CRDA
extension centers
4. Office equipment for extension       No            1 set for each CRDA              1 set for each CRDA
centers
5. Office furniture for extension       No            1 set for each CRDA              1 set for each CRDA
centers
6. Agricultural demonstration           No            1 set for each CRDA              1 set for eacb CRDA
equipment for extension centers
7. Equipment for conservation works     No            1 set for each CRDA              1 set for each CRDA
D. Credit for:                                            8.0 million
(a) On Farm Investments              USS               6.6 million          Total loans given by BNT were S3.2m
TD of which $ 2.7m disbursed from
Bank loan.
(b) Input Resale Centers             USS               1.4 million                          0
E. Consultants4                         US$               05 million                      0.09 miion
'/      The SAR only foresaw the creation of extension centers at sub-regional level. This is the staffing situation at the end of
the project. It is unclear as to when the extension agents were phased in.
Ratio of on avenge 1 extension agent to 420 farmers was achieved by the end of the project versus 1 to 250 foreseen at
appraisal. Under the Reseamch and Extension Project, the ratio is 1 to 400.
2,       Constructed but not equipped.
'I       By the end of the project, only roads in El Kef were completed. The Siliana roads were financed from other sources.
70% of roads were completed in B"ja, and 80% in Jendouba.
'I       None of the studies foreseen were done except for accounting study and roads feasibility study. Oversems training also did
not take place except for training of head of El Afareg station.



