Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,v ,&K 23-o  I-S
Report No. P-3954-
.
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO uS$I5.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
February 20, 1985
Thi docmaent bm a restricted distrbutim and may be used by recipients only in the performance -f
their oficial duties. Its contents mdy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank  triznion. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (D)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate which
is used in the Staff Appraisal Report approximates the current rate. It is:
1 US $ = DO.73
1 D = US $1.37
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BNT          =       National Bank of Tunisia
CCDA         =       Central Agricultural Development Commission
CC'GC        =       Central Cooperative for Field Crops
CRDA         =       Regional Agricultural Development Commission
COCEBLE      =       Ceatral Cooperative for Wheat
CTV          =       Local Extension Center
DGPC         =       Highway Department
FAO/CP       =       World Bank/Food and Agriculture Organization
Cooperative Program
MOA          =       Ministry of Agriculture
OC           =       National Cereal Board
OEP                  National Livestock and Range Agency
T&V          =       Training and Visit System
UTCP         =       Production Cooperative



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                             Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiary:                          National Bank of Tunisia (BNT)
Amount:                               US$15.0 million equivalent
Terms:                                17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate
Onlending:                            The Government would onlend US$8.0
million of the Bank loan to BNT on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
These terms and conditions would be
determined on the basis of an action
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, covering
national credit issues, to be adopted by
the Government by June 30, 1985.
Disbursement of these funds would be
subject to adoption of this action plan.
Project
Description:                        The proposed project would help alleviate
the constraints to increased production
of cereals and livestock products in
Northwest Tunisia by strengthening
extension and research in the area, and
improving supportive infrastructure. The
project would have an import substitution
impact and increase farm incomes. The
project would consist of provision of
extension, research and livestock
services, farm machinery testing, rural
roads upgrading, project management,
training, technical assistance, studies
and credic for on-farm investments,
seasonal inputs and input resale centers.
The project would raise the incomes of
about 4,500 farmers and 24 production
cooperatives. The risk that farmers
might adopt the new project technology
more slowly than expected is minimized by
projection of realistic adoption rates
and by ensuring the adequacy of
incentives and the availability of inputs
on credit.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents nay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Project Costs a/;
Local   Foreign   Total
-US$ Million
Extension                                              1.7       1.2      2.8
Research                                               0.3      0.3       0.7
Livestock Services                                     1.1      0.7       1.8
Farm Machinery Testing                                 0.2      0.2       0.4
Rural Roads                                            2.4      1.9       4.3
Project Management                                     0.2      0.0       0.2
Training, Technical Assistance, Studies                0.5      1.3       1.7
On-farm Investments                                    5.5      5.2      10.7
Seasonal Inputs                                        2.1      1.1       3.1
Input Resale Centers                                   0.7      0.3       1.0
Base Cost                                   14.6      12.3     26.9
Physical Contingencies                       1.5       1.3      2.7
Price Contingencies                          5.0       3.3      8.3
Total Project Cost                          21.1 b/  16.8      37.9 b/
Financing Plan:                                      Local   Foreign   Total
USS MKllion ---
World Bank                                    -       15.0     15.0
Belgium                                       -        0.2      0.2
BNT                                          5.4       1.6      7.0
Beneficiaries                                3.2        -       3.2
Government                                  12.5        -      12.5
Total                  21.1 b/  16.8      37.9 b/
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
…------------ USSTMillion  - …        -
Annual                          0.7    1.8    3.5       4.0    3.5    1.5
Cumulative                      0.7    2.5    6.0    10.0   13.5   15.0
Economic Rate of Return: about 30 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5142-TUN, dated February 6, 1985
Map No. 17994
a/ Figures may not add due to rounding.
b/ Including US$9.7 million of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND D)EVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$15.0 million to the Republic of Tunisia to help
finance a Northwest Agricultural Production Project. The loan would have a
term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.  The Government would onlend US$8.0 million of the loan to the
National Bank of Tunisia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
These terms and conditions would be determined on the basis of an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, covering national credit issues, to be adopted by
the Government by June 30, 1985.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A special economic report entitled "'Tunisia - Review of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86)" (No. 4137-TUN), in two volumes, was distributed to
the Executive Dire_..ors on March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983.  An economic
mission to review the performance of Plan implementation at mid-term visited
Tunisia in April 1984; its findings are reflected in this part and the country
data sheets, attached in Annex I.
3.       Tunisia is a mediumrsize, middle-income country wih a population of
6.7 million and a per capita income of $1200.1/ Much of Tunisia is arid or
semi-arid. Only three percent of arable land is irrigated, and areas where
rainfed agriculture is possible are subject to sevexe year-to-year fluctuation
in rainfall. Nevertheless, agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every
three Tunisians in the labor force. Tunisia's most important raw materials
are phosphates, peFroleum and natural gas. Known exploitable reserves of oil
and gas are approaching depletion, and new hydrocarbon reserves are limited
and require costly off-shore drilling; priority is now given to slowing down
the growth of domestic consumption by conservation and pricing measures. The
low quality of phosphate deposits constrains the expansion of the highly
efficient Tunisian phosphate processing industry. The country also has
considerable tourism potential, 1uc after a period of rapid expansion, the
sector is experiencing difficulties irn maintaining competitive prices and
quality standards.
4.       Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort to develop its human
resources, paying special attention to family welfare, education, and
technical and vocational training. As a result, between the early 1960s and
the early 1980s, the infant mortality rate declined from almost 160 to 65, the
expectation of life at birth rose from 48 to 61 years, the adult literacy rate
increased from about 15 to about 62 percent, and average caloric supply per
capita increased from 83 to 116 percent of minimum standard requirements. An
1/   1984 preliminary figure at current prices and current exchange rates.



-2-
active family planning policy pursued by the Government led to a decrease in
fertility and birth rates. Even though mortality rates also decreased, the
gross reproduction rate decreased markedly from 3.5 to 2.1 percent over the
same period. However, since net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya, the
growth rate of the labor force accelerated, a main reason for the rapidly
growing, serious unemployment problem. Open unemployment reached 14 percent
in 1983 and underemployment is extensive. These problems are particularly
serious among young school dropouts.
5.       During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy did extremely well.  Rapid
growth in the range of 7-8 percent was accompanied by substantial structural
transformation as manufacturing and tourism became more diversified, and their
share in total exports increased. Economic performance benefitted from
substantial terms of trade gains due to the rapid price increase of oil,
allowing both consumption and domestic savings to increase and investment to
remain high (over 30 percent of GDP). It also benefitted from improved
economic management with a cautious shift toward a more liberal,
market-oriented economy. The current account deficit, averaging 5 to 6
percent of GDP over the period, was easily financed, much of it by direct
foreign investment. The only major problem was a high rate of unemployment
and underemployment.
6.       To accelerate job creation, more than half of total investments of
the Fifth Plan (1977-81) was allocated to directly productive sectors, but the
direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum, phosphate mining
and processing, and tourism) were small and unemployment continued to
increase. These sectors, however, made a vital contribution to GDP, public
savings and exports. They provided 52 percent of the country's foreign
exchange earnings in 1983, while manufacturing activities, except
phosphate-based chemicals, provided 19 percent.
7.       The Sixth Plan (1982-86) proposes a number of policy reforms to face
the consequences of rising unemployment and the progressive decline in net
energy exports. Its main objectives were employment generation, export
promotion, regional development and public sector efficiency. Investment
priority was given to agriculture, engineering industries and tourism. The
overall rate of investment was projected to decline during the Plan period.
To minimize the effects on economic growth and employment, measures were
proposed to increase the efficiency of existing investments and to encourage a
shift to labor-intensive activities. These measures were to be accompanied by
a substantially tightened incomes policy, in particular cautious wage and
salary policies and a considerable slowdown in the growth of recurrent budget
expenditures.
8.       The Sixth Plan started poorly.  In 1982, a prolonged drought
depressed agricultural output and agro-industrial production, technical
problems plagued the phosphate and cement industries, and tourism and exports
of manufactured goods were adversely affected by the recession in Europe. The
economy recovered in 1983 and 1984 due to buoyant growth in manufacturing



- 3 -
output# stimulated by rapidly growing local demand. This brought the average
annual growth of GDP in the first three years of the Plan to 3.4 percent,
compared to 5.3 percent targeted. This performance is nonetheless commendable
in view of the world recession and compared with other countries.
9.       More worrisome than the slowdown in economic growth are the
macroeconomic imbalances, which have worsened over the last years. In
contradiction to the Plan'. macroeconomic scenario, the investment rate
remained high rather than declined, mainly due to high public enterprise
investments in energy and transportation, and consumption expanded rapidly,
fuelled by sharp increases in wages and salaries. The corresponding strong
demand pressure, facilitated by rather liberal credit policies, was reflected
in .^ising inflation: 13.6 percent in 1982, compared to a 7.8 percent average
over 1977-81; it was slowed to 9 percent in 1983 and 1984 through increased
price controls. Lower than planled overall economic growth, higher capital
intensity of new investments, and the sharp increase in labor costs combined
to keep employment creation below Plan goals, and unemployment furLher
increased.
10.      Despite a virtual stagnation of imports (in constant prices) due to
tightened import control, the current account deficit of the balance of
payments deteriorated to 8.8 percent of GDP by 1984. A fall in exports of
petroleum and of agricultural products, and a slowdown in tourism, depressed
export receipts. Direct foreign investment (mainly in the oil and gas sector)
stagnated in 1983-84. Nevertheless, Tunisia's net foreign exchange reserves
increased substantially to reach 1.7 months of imports at end-1983, as
compared to 1.4 at end-1980. This reflects, inter alia, a revaluation of the
Central Bank's foreign exchange assets, as well as the Government's drawing
down part of a syndicated Eurodollar loan contracted in 1982. In mid-1984,
reserves were some 13 percent above the mid-1983 level.
11.      The budgetary situation has also deteriorated since 1981; the Central
Government's overall budget deficit jumped from 1.7 to 7 percent of GDP
between 1981-84. This reflected increases in public investments and in
recurrent expenditures due to wage and salary increases, higher subsidy
payments to households and public enterprises, and growing dollar-denominated
debt service payments caused by the 30 percent dollar appreciation vis-&-vis
the Tunisian dinar between 1981-84. On the other hand, this latter factor
helped keep petroleum revenues from falling, and total revenues showed a
continuous growth despite the recession. In 1983-84, recurrent expenditure
growth slowed considerably, however, as a result of a freeze in Government
salaries and wages and of lower consumer subsidies.
12.      Medium-term prospects depend on two main factors; future developments
in the hydrocarbon sector; and the speed with which the Government implements
the far-reaching macroeconomic policy changes outlined in the Sixth Plan. Oil
and gas exploration programs under way have not been encouraging. Based on
known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields that
recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil and gas



- 4 -
production could be stabilized at about its present annual level of 5-6
mlillion tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade. Barring large new
oL0 or gas discoveries, and given the rise in domestic demand for energy,
Tunisia would turn into a net importer of oil in the early 1990s.
13.      Making the necessary adjustments to prepare the economy for thr post-
hydrocarbon era is made more difficult by increasing financial and balance of
payments constraints. While there is little disagreement about the
desirability or objectives of economic reform, the appropriate implementation
measures and particularly the speed of reform are more controversial. While
undeniable progress has been made since the early 1980s in several respects,
other factors have worked in the opposite direction (para. 14). Over the last
years, the Government has focussed with some success on administrative type
measures. Legitimately concerned with the immediate economic and social
problems, it resorted to short-term measures ai.d direct, quantitative controls
such as mandatory price reductions and import restrictions. Among longer-term
policies, only export promotion was addressed by a sufficiently broad approach
(tax rebates, foreign exchange risk insurance, special credit, trade
companies). The price liberalization process has moved slowly, with some
reductions in price subsidies (Carticularly for agricultural inputs,
transportation and energy) and some liberalization in the price regimes for
manufactured goods. Economic i.ncentives have been modified to promote
regional development and stimulate smaller firms, but the existing bias in
favor of capital-intensive investment rather chan employment has little
changed. Finally, fiscal reform has been initiated.
14.      Policy reforms to address the root causes of the structural
imbalances identified by the Sixth Plan have been less actively pursued.
Specifically, major areas that need greater attention are: (a) wage and
salary policies, which shculd become more restrictive, so as to slow down
growth of public and private consumption and stimulate savings,
labor-intensive investments and exports and, thus, increase employment
creation. As mentioned before, recent trends have been in the opposite
direction; (b) subsidy policies, with consumer subsidies to be reduced so as
to dampen private consumption and stimulate public savings. Some encouraging
first steps have been taken in this respect, but more action is needed; (c)
interest policies, to make interest rates positive in real terms, so as to
stimulate savings and labor-intensive investments. A thorough reassessment of
these policies is underway; (d) public enterprise reform, to stop the drain of
public enterprise deficits on the Government budget. First steps have been
taken in this direction, and a number of enterprises have been closed; (e)
public investments, which should be reduced to decrease the budget deficit,
but made more efficient and reoriented so as to increase their contribution to
economic growth and employment creation. A particularly careful screening of
projects will be necessary in the future; (f) domestic protection and pricing
policies so as to create more incentives for exports, particularly for
manufactured products; and (g) exchange rate policies, so as to ensure that
exports (including tourism) become more competitive.



- 5 -
15.      Even if the Government moves more rapidly in implementing all or most
of the above measures, the delays incurred so far in meeting the Sixth Plan
macroeconomic targets and in implementing its policy recommendationa will
probably not be recovered by 1986. It is unlikely therefore that medium-term
GDP annual growth will match the 6 to 8 percent rate achieved in the past. A
growth rate not exceeding 4 percent would be more commensurate with the need
to control current account deficits without a systematic recourse to
quantitative protection measures or excessive external borrowing. This 4
percent growth rate takes account of the projected stagnation or even decline
of hydrocarbon production.  It also assumes that while agriculture will remain
sensitive to weather conditions, manufacturing will perform well as the full
impact of the export promotion policies is felt.
.
16.      Social Issues.  Since independence, the country has gone a long way
towards meeting the basic needs of its population. Over 16 percent of GDP is
now devoted to social programs, and the number of absolute poor declined from
17 percent of total population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. This
improvement was largely concentrated, however, in urban areas. Since 1981,
social issues have faced a different context than in the 1970s, when an easy
financial situation seemed to allow a relatively unconstrained expansion of
social services. On one hand, the Tunisian population has become increasingly
aware of and sensitive to the issues of income distribution and the
Government's responsibility for redistribution. Furthermore, the beneficial
effects of past rapid expansion in social services, reflected ir the
improvement of the country social data (see Annex I), have created a demand
for improved standards in social services delivery. On the other hand, the
provision of adequate social services - education, health, town
infrastructure, housing - is being increasingly hampered by budgetary
constraints. Attempts to respond to protect the workers by raising the levels
of minimum legal wages and social insurance has discouraged private business
from increasing employment.
17.      To reduce internal differences, in particular between rural and urban
areas and among workers *n the modern sector and those precariously employed
in informal activities, the Government is channelling more resources into
regional development and youth employment. Integrated rural programs are
being developed to stimulate productive job creation and grassroots
participation. Subsidies and credit facilities are granted for young
technicians to create their own enterprises and for entrepreneurs to create
new projects in underdeveloped regions. More efforts are needed, however, to
strengthen the coordination of vocational and on-the-job training with market
demand.  To reduce the financial burden of social services, the administration
is reviewing the co-t structure of the various types of social services,
including free or below-cost delivery and the introduction of some user fees.
Special efforts are r.zz:ed to improve social infrastructure management, in
particular as regards hospitals. Also, decentralization of social facilities
in deprived zones will have to be assessed carefully because costs for
servicing and maintaining them could become rapidly prohibitive.
18.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second half of the
1970s, foreign borrowing was modest and a large share of foreign funds was



-6-
provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. At the end of 1979, debt
outstanding and disbursed was estimated at $3 billion, or 42 percent of GDP;
debt service was 10 percent of export revenues. For reasons mentioned earlier
(para. 10), the balance of payments deficit has increased substantially since
then, as has foreign indebtedness. Total public foreign debt outstanding and
disbursed at the end of 1983 is estimated at $3.9 billion, equivalent to about
48 percent of GDP; according to preliminary estimates, it reached about $4.3
billion (52 percent of GDP) at the end of 1984. The relative burden of debt
servicing reached 18-20 percent in 1983-84.  However, a relatively cautious                   a
debt management policy has been followed by the Tunisian authorities. While
the share of short-term borrowings has increased slightly since 1980,
Tunisia's overall foreign debt remains overwhelmingly long and medium-term,
and debt service requirements are projected to increase only slowly. During
1978-82, 65 percent of foreign loan commitments were from official sources and
about 30 percent on concessional terms. Just over half of official
commitments came from bilateral sources (mainly France, Japan, the Federal
Republic of Germany and some Arab oil-producing countries), and about 24
percent each from the Bank Group and from other multilateral sources. Overall
borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 7.4 percent interest and 15.8 years
maturity, including a grace period of 4.2 years.
19.      In the medium-term, external capital requirements will clearly remain
manageable. In the longer-term, much will depend on the policy changes to be
initiated during the next few years, and on developments in the hydrocarbon
sector. The Government's medium-term objective is to maintain the present
level of indebtedness; this prospect strongly depends on a timely
implementation of policy measures to accelerate exports, reduce public
investments, lower domestic demand growth, and liberalize regulation and
controls. On this basis, the current account deficit is projected to
fluctuate around $700 million until 1986, but decline substantially
thereafter. New loan commitments from abroad could be kept below $1.2 billion
per year on average (in current prices at the 1984 exchange rate), while net
foreign borrowing might average about $450 million between now and the early
1990s.
20.      Tunisia, after a decade of outstanding performance, is facing the
major challenge of adapting its economic structure at a time of external and
internal financial constraints. A strategy of demand restraint combined with
more liberal economic policies is called for to preserve the country's
financial stability and creditworthiness and, thus, its considerable long-term
growth potential. Considering its long record of prudent and skillful balance
of payments and external debt management, there are good grounds to assume
that Tunisia will implement the necessary policy changes, and remain
creditworthy for a continued high volume of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP_OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
21.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia sixty-four loans and
ten IDA credits amotnting respectively to $1,326.0 million and $75.2 million
(net of cancellations) of which forty-one loans and *redits have been fully



disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments a. of September 30, 1984. Project implementation is
generally satisfactory. A. of September 30, 1984, overall disbursements
amounted to 50 percent of appraisal estimates, which is in line with
experience in other countries in the region. Disbursement performance for
irrigation, industrial finance and port projects has generally been above the
country average, while longer than average disbursement delays have been
experienced for agricultural credit, education, highway, urban and fisheries
projects, due to project-specific problems that are being addressed through
supervision missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors,
important institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous
agencies have been created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management
of the related sectors or subsectors.
22.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting the
country's transition from a situation of reliance on petroleum exports to a
sectorally-balanced post-hydrocarbon era through appropriate changes in
economic policies and programs. This adjustnient process, as outlined in the
Sixth Development Plan, will require further diversification of exports,
greater savings efforts, reduction in consumer subsidies, gradual
liberalization of all sectors of the economy, and stronger incentives to the
private sector particularly in agriculture and industry, while taking measures
to increase employment and target development to low-income groups. In
support of the above, the overall objective of Bank lending is to emphasize
projects which have a direct and rapid impact on production, employment and
exports (or import savings) and which minimize Government net contributions.
The focus of lending for agriculture and industry meets thi objective. In
addition to the above, proposed Bank lending would focus on improvement of
public enterprise performance, development and conservation of energy
resources, and continued support to the social sectors and operations targeted
to low-income groups. For the latter, attention would be given to increased
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of institutions and investments and to
linkages with directly productive sectors (e.g., education reforms stressing
vocational training). We envisage only marginal lending for basic economic
infrastructure, focussed in areas where Bank guidance would still be useful,
such as rural water supply and highways maintenance.
23.      Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investments in
infrastructure and social development, each of which accounted for about
one-third of Bank/IDA commitments since 1971. The rest of the commitments
were almost equally distributed between agriculture and industrial financing.
In addition, the Bank has made two loans for technical assistance. Within the
broad framework noted in para. 22, we expect a significant shift in our
lending, with well over half going to agriculture and industry. In addition
to the proposed Northwest Agricultural Production Project, proposed lending in
the next couple of years would include projects for irrigation, grain storage,
credit lines for export, electromechanical and small-scale industry, textile
rehabilitation, urban development, energy, and sector loans for agriculture
and industry.



- 8 -
24.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. It
will be centered on the analysis of economic issues and policies related to
the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum-exporting to a petroleum-
importing country. This analysis, which was included in the special economic
report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)"
(No. 4137-TUN), dated March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983, is being pursued
through a number of studies. A mid-term performance review of the Sixth Plan
is being discussed with the Government, as are studies on industrial
employment creation and on the financial sector. A number of key studies
resulted from provisions in Bank loans, for example on the institutional and
incentive framework for electromechanical industries and for exports in
general. In time, the recommendations of these studies, and of those
currently in progress (industrial policy study, agricultural strategy paper)
will provide the basis for policy action programs. Further economic and
sector work includes studies of educational finance and administration,
housing finance, and a review of public enterprise performance.
25.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 19 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1982-1984. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1984 (including loans from private
sources) was an estimated 14 percent, and their share in debt service during
1984 was 13 percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed
external debt is expected to increase to 15 percent and their share in the
debt service to about 13.5 percent through 1986.
26.      As of September 30, 1984, IFC's net commitment in Tunisia totalled
$14.0 million. IFC has invested in the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), in 1966, L970, and 1978; in the National Bank for Tourism Development
(BNDT) to promote and invest in tourism projects; in the Societe Touristique
et Hoteliere (RYM), a large hotel development; in the Industries Chimiques du
Fluor (1CF), a producer of aluminum fluoride from local fluorspar for export;
and in the Societe d'Etudes et de Developpement de Sousse-Nord for an
integrated tourism development project. In FY84, IFC approved two new equity
investments in Tunisia: (i) Fluobar, a project to privatize, rehabilitate and
expand an existing fluorspar mine; and (ii) Tunisia Leasing Company, the first
leasing company in Tunisia to provide financing to the industrial sector. IFC
is considering the following activities: (i) participation in an expansion
program under study by ICF; (ii) purchase of additional share capital under
expansion programs planned by BNDT and BDET; and (iii) at the Government's
request, privatization of certain state-owned industrial projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
27.      Almost half of Tunisia's 6.7 million population is rural.
Agriculture's share in Tunisia's GDP declined from 24 percent in 1960 to 12
percent in 1983. Similarly, agriculture's share in total employment declined
from 56 percent in 1960 to about one third presently. The relative decline of



- 9 -
agriculture has been caused mainly by the more rapid growth of other sectors,
particularly petroleum, manufacturing and tourism. Over the past 15 years,
however, the value of agricultural production has grown substantially.
28.      Tunisia has a total land area of 16.4 million ha of which 8.4 million
ha are suitable for agriculture and grazing. Forests and esparto grass cover
1.2 million ha, and 2.2 million ha are used for grazing. Of the 5 million ha
of cultivable area, 34 percent is planted in cereals, 35 percent in fruit
trees, 5 percent in forage crops, 2 percent in grain legumes, 3 percent in
vegetables and 1 percent in industrial crops; 21 percent is normally left
fallow. Tunisia's ratio of irrigable to arable land is very low (3.3 percent
in 1977-80), reflecting scarcity of water resources. Tunisia has an
*         irrigation potential of about 250,000 ha of which 205,000 ha are presently
irrigable and about 160,000 ha effectively irrigated. Underutilization of
irrigation water is a major issue in the irrigation subsector.
29.      Tunisia can be divided into three agro-climatic zones.  The northern
part (25 percent of Tunisia's land area) is the most fertile, receiving
considerable rainfall (400-1,000 mm). The central zone (15 percent of
Tunisia) receives between 200 mm and 400 mm of rainfall. Rainfed agriculture
in the central zone is limited to fruit tree plantations (mostly olives), low
yield cereals and range. The southern part (60 percent of Tunisia) is a
pre-desert zone receiving less than 200 mm of rainfall with extensive grazing
and some irrigated agriculture. The North is Tunisia's predominant
agricultural region both for rainfed and irrigated farming, and farmers of the
region are generally responsive to innovations. Variations in soil,
topography and climate produce a range of potentials and variability between
years. Development has been uneven, favoring mainly the development of
irrigated agriculture, so that most rainfed areas including the project area
have sizeable unfulfilled potential.
Agricultural Planning and Performance
30.      Under the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81), the Government's
objectives for the agricultural sector included the pursuit of food
self-sufficiency (defined as a balanced commodity trade in agricultural
products), increased rural employment and income generation, foreign exchange
earnings and savings, and economic growth. The investment effort in
*        agriculture as a percentage of total investment corresponded to agriculture's
share of value added (13 percent). Investments were concentrated in
irrigation (44 percent), farm machinery (17 percent) and livestock (12
percent).  Overall performance of the sector has been satisfactory, although
the pace of growth in recent years (0.9 percent p.a. for 1976-81) has slowed
considerably compared to earlier years (8.2 percent p.a. for 1971-76),
strongly affected by drought in recent years. Until the severe drought of
1982-83, growth in cereals (about ' percent p.a.) and fruits and vegetables
(about 6 percent p.a.) exceeded population growth (about 2.6 percent p.a.),
and the 1980-81 cereal harvest of 1.2 million tons was the best ever recorded.
31.      The Government's Fifth Plan objectives in employment and food
self-sufficiency, however, were not attained: the impact of employment-
generating investments such as irrigation, livestock and fruit trees was



- 10 -
offset by employment-replacing investments in farm mechanization. The
agricultural trade balance worsened, because oE relative stagnation of
exports, a rapid growth of imports, especially cereals, and a deterioration in
the terms of trade of agricultural goods. Tunisia's rapid per capita income
and population growth, combined with a shift of tastes to higher value crops,
created a growth of demand in food, diverting exports to local consumption and
increasing imports.
32.      The basic issues for agriculture under the Sixth Plan (1982-86) have
not changed. though the need to resolve key issues such as employment and
egional income distortions, as well as increased efficiency of investments,
has become greater due to a projected decline in the rate of economic growth
and the necessity to adjust the economy to a post-hydrocarbon situation of
lower investments. The Government is attempting to achieve this adjustment
through, inter alia, (a) shifting investments from large, capital-intensive
projects to the promotion of employment opportunities in small- and
medium-scale enterprises such as in agriculture; and (b) the creation of an
appropriate policy environment'for removing constraints for farmers, including
the introduction of realistic prices for agricultural products. The
Government's investment strategy is shown by an increase in the total
investments allocated to agriculture from 13 percent (1977-81) to 19 percent
(1982-86); and within agriculture, a decline in the share of investment in
capital-intensive subsectors such as farm machinery (17 to 11 percent) and an
increase in the share of labor-intensive subsectors such as livestock (12 to
15 percent) and fruit tree plantations (8 to 17 percent). In the pursuit of
increased food production, more attention is being given to the improvement of
production from the rainfed areas, particularly for grain and livestock
production. The proposed resetting of priorities is dependent on increasing
absorptive capacity in the more labor-intensive subsectors. The Bank-financed
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2197-TUN) is facilitating the preparation
of high-priority projects and subsector strategies including policy reforms.
Sector Issues
33.      L=-- Tenur--'.  Land distribution is highly skewed.  Most farms arr
small (68 percent hive less than 10 ha) and fragmented (70 oercent have Lwo or
more separate parcels). Much of the farm land is owned by absentee landlords
who in many cases hbve little interest in intensification, and by cooperatives
which sometimes exploit the land poorly due to lack of managerial skills. Few
farmers have lanJ titles. There is no legal protection for tenant farmers
which discourages them from investing in agriculture. Land reform has been
discussed for many years, but action has been slow and generally confined to
the public irrigation areas where land consolidation has begun. In order to
accelerate the current program of land titling and provide a better balance of
land distribution, the Government is preparing a National Cadastre and
Cartography Project for implementation during the Seventh Plan period.
Following discussion with the Government of a preliminary subsector report
prepared by the Bank, a more detailed study of land issues is being carried
out under the Technical Assistance Project. Some land consolidation has also
taken place under Bank-financed irrigation projects.



- 11 -
34.      Extension and Research.  At present there is no effective national
extension service in Tunisia: various projects and commodity organizations
have successfully introduced autonomous or semi-autonomous extension systems
for individual crops or regions, often relying on special organizational
arrangements which are not necessarily permanent. Few extension activities
are based on properly formulated extension messages which respond to the needs
of the farmers, or conflicting advice is provided to farmers by competing
extension agents. The management systems in place seldom ensure the most
efficient use of extension personnel. :n addition, the agents perform
multiple functions including credit analysis and the collection of
agricultural statistics besides their extension work, and are inadequately
£       trained.  While some good progress has been made in agricultural research,
insufficient emphasis is given to adaptive research. Research is too
centralized and has little contact with farmers, thus lacking the critical
feedback from farmers needed to establish appropriate priorities. The
proposed project would help reform and strengthen extension and research
services in the project area as the first stage of a national program to be
developed under the Technical Assistance Project for implementation during the
Seventh Plan period.
35.      Input Supply and Output Marketing.  Public marketing and input supply
enterprises exist for cereals, grain legumes, olives, wine, meat, fertilizer,
seed and farm machinery. Several Government development authorities (Offices)
participate in the collection of milk, fruit and vegetables. All these
institutions require improvements in their efficiency. They are slow to
respond to market signals and to introduce cost-cutting efficiencies. Farm
inputs are frequently not available in the quantities and at the time
reqitired. Private marketing and input suppliers are not permitted to compete
legally with public enterprises for certain commodities (cereals, olive oil,
certified seed of high yielding cereal varieties). The proposed Project would
improve the collection of milk and the supply of inputs in the Project area,
especially seed and fertilizer, partly by encouraging private sector
initiative in these activities. An input supply study financed under the
Technical Assistance P-c,ject has already led to urgently needed increases in
fertilizer distribution margins, and an agricultural marketing study, also
funded from the Technical Assistance Project, is expected to lead to a series
of output marketing measures for implementation during the Seventh Plan period.
36.      Agricultural Credit.  The institutional structure of formal
agricultural credit in Tunisia is complex. The principal vehicle for medium-
and long-term investment credit is the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT). The
main sources of short-term credit are BNT (in the case cf larger farmers,
generally clients of long standing) and the Mutual Guarantee Societies
(SCMs). SCMs grant seasonal credit, using BNT funds but with Government



- 12 -
guarantee, to small- and medium-size farmers. Supervised credit is also
offered by a number of agricultural development projects financed by external
donors. Some Covernment-owned enterprises operating outside the financial
sector (e.g., Off ces) provide credit in kind. A new agricultural bank (BNDA)
was recently created to finance investments by large farmers or agricultural
enterprises. Credit demand in the project area is currently constrained by
the farmers' lack of appreciation of investaK:nt opportunities, primarily due
to the ineffective extension system referred to above. The ongoing Third
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1885-TUN) is addressing priority credit
problems.
37.      Pri.:es and Subsidies.  In an effort to provide food at low cost, most
consumer pri:es are fixed by Government. Traditionally, farmgate prices in
Tunisia have also been fixed artificially low compared to world prices,
discouraging the use of more productive but higher cost techniques and
investment. The exception was for irrigated crops (most fruits and
vegetables) for which output prices are free. Farm input subsidies, which the
Government has seen as a means of compensating farmers for low producer
prices, benefit only a minority of farmers and tend to be provided for the
most modern inputs (purebred cows, feed concentrate, irrigation water,
fertilizer, pesticide, etc). While this encourages use of these inputs, it
also causes excessive use by farmers fortunate enough to obtain the
subsidies. The Government recognizes the negative resource allocation,
budgetary and income distribution effects of its present pricing and subsidy
policies and one of its objectives is to move towards a pricing system that
more closely reflects the real costs and benefits of inputs and outputs to the
economy. Some agricultural producer prices (milk and cereals) have thus been
increased more rapidly than average price inflation in the recent past. As a
result, current producer prices are now for the most part reasonably in line
with world prices in nominal terms. Consumer prices for milk and beef have
also been increased recently.
Bank Involvement in Agricultural Projects
38.      Bank Group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967, and
to date 17 projects (including two highway projects and one technical
assistance operation) have been approved for a total of $343.2 million of
Bank/IDA funds. Of these, seven have been closed. Those remaining consist of
three irrigation projects: the Southemn Irrigation Project (Loan 1796-TUN),
the Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project (Loan 2157-TUN), and the
Central Tunisia Irrigation Project (Loan 2234-TUN); one Fisheries Project
(Loan 1746-TUN); one Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1885-TUN); one Rural
Development Project for the Northwest Region (Loan 1997-TUN); and one Grain
Distribution and Storage Project (Loan 2052-TUN). The Bank is also supporting
infrastructure and on-farm investments through the Third and Fifth Highway
Projects (Loans 1601-TUN and 2108-TUN). The Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2197-TUN) aLso has a substantial agricultural component including the
studies mentioned above.
39.      Performance under these projects has been mixed.  Implementation of
the irrigation projects has been the most satisfactory, the irrigation Offices



- 13 -
having demonstrated their ability to implement construction works efficiently.
On-farm development and the implementation of efficient farm support services
have been slower to materialize, partly due to the priority given to
construction work, and the non-involvement of farmers in the decisions
concerning water distribution and operation of the systems. The First
Fisheries Project was completed at the end of 1979 with considerable delays
and low loan recoveries for boats. These problems were addressed under the
Second Fisheries Project after agreement was reached on a strategy for
improving recoveries. The First Agricultural Credit Project financed BNT
lending for farm machinery, date palm plantations and dairy development and
processing, but was not fully disbursed until 34 months after the original
closing date because Bank Group funds were onlent at a higher interest rate
than Government funds.  The PPAR (No. 2497 of May 11, 1979) indicates that
while the project achieved a good rate of return, mechanization did not yield
the benefits expected, and dairy processing suffered major cost overruns.
Under the Second Agricultural Credit Project, the continuing problem of higher
interest rates on Bank funds than on Government funds, and the lack of
decentralization of BNT's sub-loan approval process, caused disbursements to
be slower than anticipated. The project closed on December 31, 1982, two
years after the initial closing date. The Third Agricultural Credit Project
is addressing priority credit problems: it calls for uniformity of lending
terms regardless of the source of financing, and requires BNT to increase
agricultural staff, establish a staff training program, decentralize appraisal
and approval of small sub-loans to branch offices, undertake annual reviews of
the adequacy of its agricultural interest rates compared to price inflation
and make adequate proposals for their modification as necessary, and improve
recoveries.  Progress so far has been slow but in the right direction.  Action
has been taken to decentralize BNT's operations, establish training programs,
raise interest rates for larger farmers and improve loan recoveries, the last
by granting BNT the "privilege d'etat" allowing overdue loans to be recovered
without lengthy legal proceedings. Following discussions of the Bank's
Financial Sector Survey and Agricultural Strategy Paper during the first half
of CY85, the Government intends to prepare a plan for further action on
interest rates and measures to improve loan recoveries (para. 55). The
physical implementation of the ?iorthwest Rural Development Project has made a
good start. The Grain Storage Project is also now making a good start after
initial delays and the recruitment of new consulting engineers. Under the
Technical Assistance Project, studies are being carried out for several
*      subsectors.  The Government has also completed a study on milk collection.
The proposed project reflects progress on several important issues which have
emerged from the preparation of these studies, including milk marketing and
fertilizer distribution.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  In its effort to support the
objectives of Tunisia's Sixth Plan (1982-86), the Bank's lending strategy for
Tunisia has placed emphasis on agricultural and rural development. The



- 14 -
proposed project is the result of an ongoing dialogue between the Government
and the Bank on development of the high-potential plains of Northwest
Tunisia. To support the development of rainfed agriculture in this area,
priority has been given to the introduction of proven, more intensive and
appropriate agricultural technology designed to bring production closer to its
potential. The development and introduction of such technology will require
better support services, which will be provided in the project area under this
project. The Bank has and can play a valuable role in this effort, particular-
ly in supporting efforts to unify the extension service (one multidisciplinary
agent for crops and livestock). Bank involvement has also ensured that
questions of milk and meat marketing and fertilizer distribution margins are
addressed.
41.      Background.  The project was identified in August 1983, and prepared
by the Department of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analyses of the MOA
with the assistance of the FAO/CP. The project was appraised in
January/February 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington from January 14
to 18, 1985. The Tunisian delegation was led by Mr. Mansour M'Seddi of the
Ministry of Planning, and included representatives of the Ministries of
Finance and Agriculture, including the Central Commissioner for Agricultural
Development, the Project Manager designate. The Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Northwest Agricultural Production Project", No. 5142-TUN of February
6, 1985, is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III of this President's Report. A map showing the location of areas
covered by the project is attached.
42.      Project Area.  The project would cover an area of about 400,000 ha in
the provinces of Jendouba, El Kef, Beja and Siliana in Northwest Tunisia,
representing some of the best agricultural land in the country. The Bank is
already .elping finance the Northwest Rural Development Project (Loan
1997-TUN) to assist small farmers in the mountainous zones of these provinces;
the proposed project would focus on larger farmers already in the market
economy (private farms of 10 ha or more) and production cooperatives (UCPs) on
the adjacent plains in an effort to achieve a quick increase in the production
of key cereal and livestock products. The project area has good rainfall and
soils.
43.      Improved technologies relevant to the project area have been tested
at an experimental and demonstration farm operated with the assistance of the
Belgian aid program since 1969. Application of these technologies can lead to
considerable farm level yield increases for field crops and animal products.
This improved performance could be achieved by the adoption of more
appropriate crop rotations (replacing some fallow with forage and integrating
livestock) and the application of more relevant techniques (such as fertilizer
and weed control strategies aimed at the entire, integrated farming system).
The current constraints to such improvements are the lack of a) knowledge 1y
farmers of how to apply the techniques, b) means, principally production



- 15 -
inputs and machinery, to apply the techniques, and c) consistent and
attractive market opportunities for milk and meat.
44.      Project Objectives and Description.  The project would increase
production of cereals (mainly wheat) and livestock products (mainly milk and
mutton/lamb) on private farms and UCPs in the project area by introducirg the
known technology of cereals/livestock integration. This would be achieved by
strengthening extension and research in the project area and improving
supportive infrastructure. Since Tunisia imports large quantities of wheat,
feedgrains, milk and meat, project production would assist che balance of
payments. Farm income would also increase. The project would consist of:
a)    introduction of an efficient extension service in the project
area to be managed along the lines of the Training and Visit
(T&V) system, including construction and provision of equipment,
vehicles and incremental staff for 18 new and 15 existing
extension centers (CTVs) and establishment of a farm management
center to advise large farmers and UCPs;
b)    rehabilitation and provision of equipment for one animal
production and two field crop research stations;
c)    construction and provision of equipment, vehisles, incremental
staff, operating and maintenance expenses for three animal
health centers, ten dairy cattle artificial insemination posts,
one milk collection center and three animal purchase centers;
d)    on-farm testing of new types of farm machinery;
e)    upgrading of approximately 110 km of rural roods and repairs,
culverts and fords for about another 20 km;
f)    provision of local and overseas training for extension agents,
supervisors, subject matter specialists and a researcher; an
adviser for the farm management center; consultant services for
extension management, farm machinery testing, research station
development, and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation
system for the agricultural sector; and studies of the treatment
*                       of straw to improve its value as animal feed, of the function,
location and physical requirements for future research/extension
support stations, and of the development of service cooperatives
in the project area, including pilot activities for two such
cooperatives;
g)    credit investments;
i) on-farm development including the construction and
improvement of dairies, cowsheds and sheepfolds, the purchase of
tractors, implements, cows, rams, ewes and seasonal inputs, and
the establishment of pastures; and



- 16 -
ii) provision of 15 new input resale centers (to supply
fertilizer, seeds of recommended varieties, pesticides,
herbicides), seven of these centers for the Government's
National Cereal Board (OC) and eight for service cooperatives
(COCEBLE and CCGC).
45.      Project Cost and Financing.  The total estimated cost of the project
is $37.9 million, of which $16.8 million is in foreign exchange. Cost
estimates are based on January 1984 prices updated to January 1985 levels, and
are derived from recent quotations and appraisal estimates. Taxes and duties
estimated at $9.7 million are included, as well as physical contingencies
representing about 10 percent of base costs (15 percent for civil works and 10
percent for vehicles, equipment and incremental recurrent costs, except
salaries and wages and consultants' services) and price contingencies
totalling about 28 percent of base'costs plus physical contingencies (9.0
percent for 1986-88 and 7.5 percent for 1989 for foreign costs; 10.0 percent
for 1986-88 and 9.0 percent for 1989 for local costs). The project includes
about 110 staff-months of consultant services for technical assistance and
studies.
46.      The proposed Bank loan of $15.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project, with the exception of seasonal credit which
would be financed by the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT), and about $0.2
million which is expected to be provided by the Belgian Government on grant
terms for technical assistance to thie farm management center. The Bank loan
would represent 40 percent of the total cost, or 53 percent of the total cost
net of taxes, and 89 percent of the foreign cost. The Bank loan would be made
to the Government and utilized by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) for
extension, research, farm machinery testing, project management, training,
technical assistance and studies, and by the Ministry of Equipment for rural
roads, and passed on, on a grant basis, to the National Livestock and Range
Agency (OEP), a parastatal agency under the MOA, for livestock services, and
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 55) to BNT for credit. The Belgian
contribution would cover less than one percent of the total cost, and BNT, the
Government of Tunisia and project beneficiaries, respectively, would finance
18, 33 and 8 percent of the total cost. In addition to the project costs,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would provide
adequate funds for the Highway Department (DGPC) of the Ministry of Equipment
to maintain the entire network of all-weather roads in the project area (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.08). Details of project costs and financing are
contained in the Loan and Project Summary.
47.      Status of Engineering.  Standard architectural plans and
specifications are available for most project buildings. Terms of reference
have also been prepared for most project-related consultants. For the rural
roads, design standards correspond to those established for the Third and
Fifth Highways Projects (Loans 1601-TUN and 2108-TUN).  Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that by April 30 of each year (June 30 in 1985), the
JGPC would submit to the Bank for review and comment a plan for the rural road
upgrading to be carried out during the following calendar year. Each rural
road would be supported by a draft feasibility study employing methodology and
selection criteria, including an economic rate of return, satisfactory to the



- 17 -
Bank. After receiving the Bank's comments, the DGPC would finalize the plan
and feasibility studies and submit them to the Bank for approval by September
30 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
48.      Procurement.  Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table
below:
Project Element                Procurement Method              Total Cost
ICB      LCB    Other      N.A.
------(US$ Million)------------------------
Civil works                          9.2    0.8                     10.0
(4.0)  (0.3)                   (4.3)
Goods                      3.2       1.0    0.2                      4.4
(1.4)    (0.5)  (0.1)                    (2.0)
Credit                                               21.4           21.4
(8.0)         (8.0)
Consultant Services                         1.8       0.3            2.1
(0.7)     (-)           (0.7)
TOTAL          3.2     10.2    2.8      21.7           37.9
(1.4)    (4.5)  (1.1)    (8.0)          (15.0)
Note: figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
Civil works are small (maximum contract of $250,000) and scattered, and are
therefore of no interest to foreign contractors. Sufficient construction
firms, both local and foreign, are established in Tunisia to ensure
competitive prices under LCB procedures. Civil works such as buildings
which fail to attract bids from contractors could be constructed under force
account. Vehicles, machinery, equipment and furniture would be grouped
whenever possible and procured through ICB. When bulking is not feasible,
contracts not exceeding $150,000 each, and aggregating no more than $1.0
million, may be awarded through LCB. A margin of preference of 15 percent
or the actual customs duties (whichever is less) will be allowed for
domestic manufacturers. Specialized research equipment aggregating no more
than $150,000 would be procured on the basis of quotations from at least
three qualified suppliers. Works and goods under the credit component would
be procured through regular commercial or other channels. Bank-financed
consultants would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
49.      Disbursement.  The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a
period of six years as follows: 100 percent of foreign and 45 percent of
local expenditures for civil works, 100 percent of foreign and 50 percent of



- 18 -
local expenditures for goods, 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local
expenditures for consultant services, and 70 percent of amounts disbursed by
BNT for sub-loans. The indicated percentages of local expenditure financing
represent the estimated foreign exchange component of locally-procured goods
and services. To ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the
project, the Bank would establish a revolving fund of $300,000 in a special
account at the Central Bank of Tunisia. This fund, corresponding to three
months' project needs, would be used to pay eligible expenditures for civil
works, goods and consultant services. The Bank would replenish the fund
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures paid were eligible
for financing out of the fund. The size of the fund could be changed as
agreed by the Government and the Bank to adjust to estimated disbursement
requirements during project implementation.  Project completion is expected
by June 30, 1990. The loan Closing Date would be June 30, 1991.
50.      Project Implementation.  The proposed project aims at providing
farners in the project area with the advice, inputs and market outlets
needed to increase production and dispose of their produce. This would be
achieved by strengthening the various departments and agencies already
providing such services rather than creating any new entities. The
objective is to reinforce existing line agencies, rather than bypassing them.
51.      Overall responsibility for coordinating project implementation
would lie with the MOA's Central Commission for Agricultural Development
(CCDA), located at the Ministry's headquarters in Tunis, whose head would be
the titular Project Manager. The Project Manager would chair a Project
Coordinating Committee, to be established by October 31, 1985, responsible
for periodic liaison with all the entities involved in project execution.
Day-to-day management would be handled by a Deputy Project Manager
(Agricultural Engineer) leading a Project Implementation Unit within the
CCDA including a Chief Accountant and an Agricultural Economist. Field
management of the project would be handled by the regional branches of the
CCDA--the Regional Commissions for Agricultural Development (CRDAs)--located
in the four project provinces. No later than October 31, 1985, the Regional
Commissioners would be appointed as subproject managers responsible for
implementation of the project activities in their provinces, in accordance
with a yearly action program agreed with the Project Manager. New staff in
each CRDA would include a Deputy responsible for extension and for project
management and execution, and an Accountant. Establishment in the CCDA of
the Project Implementation Unit, headed by a Deputy Project Manager and
including a Chief Accountant and an Agricultural Economist, and appointment
of a Deputy and an Accountant in each project CRDA would be conditions of
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a) and (b)). Agreement on
establishment and maintenance of the above implementation structure was
obtained at negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). The new CCDA and
CRDA positions would be filLed by transferring competent technical staff
within the MOA and by hiring quaLified accountants.
52.      Extension.  The project's institutional objectives include
reorganization and strengthening of the extension service along the lines of
the T&V system, in such a way as to have one multidisciplinary agent who



- 19 -
would convey messages to farmers on integrated (cereals/livestock) farming
methods. The project provisions for building and staffing CTVs aim at
achieving a ratio of one agent for every 250 farmers. These agents would be
supervised by the Deputy in each CRDA. Since a well-organized extension
service requires that it propose technically, economically and socially
reliable messages relevant to farmers' needs, attention would be given to
the technical support that research can provide to extension. Extension
agents would be backed up at the CRDA level by a group of subject matter
specialists, drawn from existing staff in the CRDAs or seconded from the
research establishment, covering at least the four following specialties:
training and extension, livestock, pest control and agronomy. They would
carry out the following activities: coordinate with research, prepare
booklets on recommended cropping practices for the main crops, select and
prepare extension messages in cooperation with farmers and research, prepare
and carry out refresher courses and train staff, provide emergency technical
support, and carry out adaptive trials. The above principles were agreed at
negotiations and assurances were obtained that extension staff would be
deployed and maintained according to a plan acceptable to the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03) Agreement was reached that new extension staff
would be assigned in the project area according to the following schedule:
15 in 1986, 17 in 1987, 15 in 1988, and 4 in 1989.
53.      Milk and Meat Facilities.  The project includes provision of a milk
collection center at El Kef to cover part of the project area without access
to already-existing or planned facilities. This center would initially be
managed by OEP. Consistent with the Government's policy of gradual
withdrawal from milk collection, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that no later than five years after the start of operations of the center,
OEP would lease its management to a private company or a service cooperative
under an agreement satisfactory to the Bank, OEP having assisted the lessee
for at least one year prior to signature of the lease agreement (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06). Also, following the system already established
for milk collection centers under the Northwest Rural Development Project
(Loan 1997-TUN), assurances were obtained that, from the start of operation
of the center, it would charge a price margin for milk collection sufficient
to cover its operating and maintenance costs (Loan Agreement, Section
3.10(i)).
54.      An essential part of the project is improved integration of sheep
and dairy cattle in farming enterprises to use crop residues and the natural
growth on the land left fallow. In support of this objective, the project
provides for a number of animal support service facilities: animal health
centers, artificial insemination posts and animal purchase centers, where
OEP would buy lean animals to sell to project farmers for fattening. As
regards the animal purchase centers, since this is a new activity organized
primarily for the benefit of larger farmers, assurances were obtained that
the recovery charge would cover the operating and maintenance costs of the
centers from the start of their operations, and their investment costs no
later than five years after the start of operations (Loan Agreement, Section
3.10(ii)).



- 20 -
55.      Credit.  Credit to farmers would be provided by BNT through its
existing network of branches in the project area which is adequate to cover
the needs of the project. The Accountant to be recruited for each CRDA
would assist with implementation of the credit component. OC, COCEBLE and
CCGC would borrow from BNT to finance the construction of input resale
centers. In order to ensure that the terms and conditions of onlending of
loan funds are appropriate, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the Government would adopt, before June 30, 1985, an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank on agricultural credit issues, including interest
rate levels and improvement of sub-loan recovery rates, and would thereafter
implement this action plan. The adoption of the plan and the signature of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank for the onlending of the
loan funds for credit ($8.0 million) would be a condition of disbursement
for these funds (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a) and (b), and Schedule 1,
para. 4 (b)). Assurances were also obtained that sub-loans would be made by
BNT on terms and conditions and according to eligibility criteria to be
defined in the context of the action plan and which would be satisfactory to
the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (c)).
56.      Monitoring and Audits.  Indicators to monitor physical execution of
the project and the achievement of production and policy objectives were
agreed upon at negotiations, and assurances were obtained that the CCDA
would submit reports on these indicators, as well as in financial
transactions of the project, within two months after the end of each
semester (Loan Agreement, Section 3.13(c)). Assurances were also obtained
that the project's annual budget and financial plans, approved by the
Project Coordinating Committee and the Ministries of Planning and Finance,
would be presented to the Bank for information no later than August 31 of
each year (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). The CCDA would establish and
maintain separate project accounts in Tunis and for each of the project
CRDAs; it would be a condition of effectiveness that the CCDA complete the
design of a project accounting system, which would be done with the
assistance of consultants financed under an ongoing Bank loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01 (c)). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
installation of this system would start no later than January 1, 1986 and
that the system would be fully operational by March 31, 1986 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.11). Project accounts would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. An understanding was reached
that the Controller General of Finance, who has independent status and whose
audits are acceptable to the Bank in scope and content, would do the
audits. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the audited financial
statements and reports would be presented to the Bank within six months
after the end of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
57.      Markets and Prices.  Most incremental production from the project
would find a ready market as import substitutes (wheat, feedgrains,
mutton/lamb, milk) or meet strong internal demand (grain legumes, wool). A
sizeable export market for mutton/lamb could also be further developed in
neighboring countries. As indicated in para. 37, the prices for most



- 21 -
project outputs are in line wLth world prices and provide adequate
incentives. In view of the traditional grain producing orientation of the
farmers in the project area, the marketing infrastructure for grain (25
purchase centers) is more developed than that for livestock nroducts.
However, given the Government's commitment to develop integrated farming
systems in the area, it has recently promoted two initiatives to help
improve the marketing of milk and meat. First, to improve milk marketing,
it has licensed the construction by private companies, with Government
participation, of two new dairy plants in the project area. These plants
are expected to be operational by late 1987, at which time the Government
has indicated it will institute a consumer price premium for local processed
fresh milk, thus providing an additional stimulus for fresh milk production
in the project area.  The project would also provide an additional milk
collection center in the project area. Second, to improve meat marketing,
the parastatal company El Louhoum has started construction of meat freezing
and refrigeration facilities in Tunisia's second largest city, Sfax. This
will greatly increase demand for meat from the project area. As noted in
para. 35, the Government has also taken measures to increase fertilizer
distribution margins, which would increase private sector initiative in the
supply of this key input. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government would take all necessary measures to ensure adequate incentives
for milk and meat marketing and fertilizer distribution at least cost to the
Government budget in order to promote increased agricultural production and
the wider availability of fertilizer (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09). In
particular, the Government indicated that it will continue to progressively
adopt more realistic consumer prices for milk and beef and maintain adequate
distribution margins for fertilizer.
58.      Justification and Risks.  Incremental production including wheat,
grain legumes, sheep meat, sheep wool, dairy cattle milk, dairy cattle meat,
lamb meat and steer meat would amount to about 106,600 tons at full
development; some 95 million additional forage units would also be produced
as an input to livestock production. Net incremental foreign exchange
earnings would be about $35 million per year. These production increases
would stem from increases in cropped areas, animal units and yields due to
incremental on-farm investments, the introduction of better farming
practices and increased input use. Approximately 4,500 farm families and 24
UCDS are expected to benefit from the project. Based on six individual farm
models, increases in net income are expected to range from D610 to D1,500
per year on smaller farms (14 ha) in lower rainfall areas, to from D4,340 to
D17,670 per year on larger farms (106 ha) in higher rainfall areas. The
income of a model UCP would increase from D48,000 to D117,220 per year.
Financial rates of return range from 34 to over 50 percent. The project
economic rate of return (ERR), with benefits based on incremental
production, is estimated at 30 percent, with a net present value (NPV) of
D25.0 million, discounted at 12 percent.



- 22 -
59.      The major risk facing the project would be a slower than expected
adoption by farmers and UCPs of the new technology to be extended. By
selecting a target group already in the market economy which stands to gain
significantly from adoption, by ensuring the availability of adequate inputs
on credit and by projecting realistic adoption rates, this risk has been
minimized. Sensitivity analyses show that even if the number of adopting
farmers and UCPs is cut in half, the ERR would still be 15 percent.
Overall, benefits could decrease by 37 percent and costs increase by 58
percent before the project would reach a level of marginal justification (12
percent). The project thus has a strong economic justification which is
resistant to adverse movements in key variables.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be
establishment of the Project Implementation Unit in the CCDA and appointment
of its staff, appointment of CRDA staff and design of the project accounting
system. It would be a condition of disbursement for credit funds that the
Government adopt an action plan satisfactory to the Bank on agricultural
credit issues and sign a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank
with BNT.
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 20, 1985
WashLngton, D.C.



ANNEX 1
-   23    -                                               Page  1 of 6
TA  8L C3A
TUNISIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                             REPMUNE CROUP (WEIGWD AVERCES) /
pIEO0ST             (MOST RCENIT ESTrIATE) /b
RCNT oMIDDLE INCME                  MIDDLE INCOS
1960tL!    1970!!!   sSTIATiiiLbt  x. A RICA  MID EAST    LAT. AMRICA A CAR
aREA(Tow. Sq. Ml)
TOTAL                              163.6       163.6        163.6
ACRICULTURAL                        68.8        70.3        72.2
NP PM CAPITA (US)                     210.0       340.0      1390.0             1149.6                 2108.6
mla    cosm.Suwnou i  CAn
(KILOGRMS OF OIL KqUIVALUWT)       119.0       Z30.0       497.0              622.1                 995.5
POPUAT  AD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION.ILD-YTAR (THOUSANDS)    4221.0     5127.0      6683.0
URRAH POPUIAION (t OF OOTAL)       36.0        43.5        53.6               48.2                   66.5
POPULATtON PROJECTIONS
t                       POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                            10.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILL)                              18.8
POPUL4ATON MOMENTtIN                                        1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Hm.                       25.8        31.3        39.9               36.3                   35.7
PER SQ. MR. AGRI. LAND            61.4        72.9        90.3              461.7                  92.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE IX)
0-14 YRS                         43.4        46.2         39.9              43.6                   39.9
15-64 YRS                         52.5        50.0        56.2              53.1                    56.0
65 AND ABVE                        4.2         3.8         3.8                3.3                   4.1
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                               1.8 Ic     1.9 7c      2.2 /c             2.8                    2.4
UR-N                               3.2         3.8         3.9               4.5                     3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        46.6        39.4        33.9              40.4                    31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        19.1        14.3         9.2               11.5                   8.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5         3.2         2.1               2.8                    2.0
FAMILY PLAINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)           ..        29.2        180.9 /d
USERS (tSO oMArR   WOMEN)           ..          ..        41.0 7             22.2                   *0.3
imO AND N     n1II
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       97.0        96.0       128.0              97.3                   114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY Or
CALORIES (R OF REQUIREIENTS)      83.0        88.0       116.0              110.8                  110.6
PROTEINS (CRGMS PER DAY)          52.0        57.0        74.0              70.1                   67.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0       14.0         23.0 /f           17.8                   34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         36.1        ZO.0         6.0               14.6                   5.7
SUAElt
LIFE EXECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        4B.3        53.0        61.1              57.5                   64.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)      156.9       121.0        65.0             101.5                   60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (CPOP)
TOTAL                               *-        49.0         70.0 Ia           59.7                   65.4
URBAN                               ,,          ,,        91.0 /g            B4.5                   78.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        46.0 /             38,4                   46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        62.0          ..                ..                    52.9
URBAN                               ..       100.0        42.0                ..                    67.0
RURAL                               *         34.0          ..                ..                    24.5
POPULATION PER PIYSICIAN         10030.0      5930.0      3690.0            4345.1                 1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               ..       730.0       890.0             1831.1                 815.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL 8ED
TOTAL                            410.0       410.0       460.0 /d           632.9                  367.2
URBA.N                           230.0 /h   310.0        350.0 71           545.5                  411.5
RURAL                           1040.0    1270.0         1230.07T          2511.5                 2636.3
ADMISSIONS PE HOSPITAL BED            ..        Z4.1        25.0 /t           26.2                   27.3
AVERACE SIZE 3F HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               '.         5.'~./
URBAN                               ,.         S. IL       5.5 Ik
RURAL                               ..         S.          5.6/k
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         3.2 /       3.1 /k
URBAN                               ..         2.7         2.6                 ...
RURAL                               ..         3.6         3.58 it.
ACCESS TO ELECT. (' OF OWELLINCS)
TOTAL                               ,,        24.0 1      34.2 Ik           46.2
URBAN                               ..          .,        68.2 ik            77.7
RURAL                               ..          ..         6. 0 r             6.1



ANNEX I
-  24  -                                                    Page 2 of 6
MEET                 DOT ISZOUT       MIDhZA
IHOLk  1370  UUTZMATLk     N. PZIA 6M D 3AM"       WLT MUO  UOA
ADJUTED ENROLLMZUT RA!TiUI                                     SoRiz"   ND   ST         UT a      "     a
PUDItZVI   TOTAL                    Gi.0       101.0        105.0               66.2                  105.4
MAIA                     U1.0       121.0        112.0              102.5                  105.2
TENAIE                   42.0        sol0         22.0a              73.5                  104.3
IECONDARYt TOTAL                    12.0        22.0         30.0              42.0                    42.2
KALU                    19.0         33.0         37.0               52.2                   42.3
JY ALNSO                 l5.0       13.0         23.0               32.0                   44.3
VOCATIONAL (I OF IECOUDA2T)           22.5        11.1         25.2               10.2                   22.0
PUPIL-TEACHE PATIO
PRIMARY                             61. 0       47.0        31.0                30.3                   S00 I
IZCOONDAR                           16.0       23.0          2..0               23.1                   16.5
ADULT LITERACY R1TE (                 15.5        24.0         62.0  ..3                                 ?v. 3
PASI  IZ R CARTH1OURAND POP           10.5        13.0         a. 3               17.6                   46.0
RADIO RICEZVERI/TROUUAD POP           40.3        75.7        105.0              136.6                  225.6
TV I M IVKRI/TBOIUAND POP              0.1        14.0         47.1               46.1                  107.2
IIDIPAPR ("IDAILY GENERAL
INTENJIT") CIRCMLATION
PuE  TIOUA   POPULATION             18.6        15.9         43.6 Mo            31.2                   62.5
CIAD    ALNUAL ATNOANCEtCAPITA         1.6         ..           1.5 2 [            L                      2.1
LABOR 101C3
TOAL LAOR 10105 (TUOUS)             1136.0      1213.0       1731.0
IA1011 (PIRCOEIT)                    6.0         7.7        1.5                 10.6                   23.2
AS RICULTUIU CPERCNT)               36.0        50.0         33.0               42.4                   31.5
INDUST CPERCENT)                    16.0        21.0         32.0               27.9                   23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCNT)
TOTAL                               27.0        23.7         26.2               26.2                   32.2
MAIX                       3~~~~~0.2   44.2         47.3               46.4                   49.3
FCMAL                                L.3         3.6          4.5                5.5                   12.2
SCO 4OMIC WEIEND=   JICTH a113.a                   2.1          1.7                1.1                    1.4
PEROENT Of PRIVATE INCU
ECEIVED By
NimdLT iso?r    IEw                   .          7.7         17.0 A
LoircEs 2  OF HOM      $.0                       ..           6.0                S.
LOWST 40307 Rof ENS D               1.0         2.0         13.0               2t.9
ETIATD(T  AgOLUTE POVERT  INCME
VIIL CIcr  PAr  CAPITA)
TOSAL                                                       204.0 02           274.8                  286.2
RUMAL.                               0.          4.          37.0              177.2                  164.0
EITDIATZD RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEl CUSS ME CAPITA)
URZ                                  L3                3.       *.            402.6                   522.6
RURAL                                 .           .         193.0 I264.                               312.4
eITIMTED POP. SrIOW ASOLU
POVET=  11001  LEVEL CZ)
02nA1                                ..                                           S 20.0
0AL                                   S ..        S.         13.0                 .
S N T AVAILAILE
NOT APPLICABLE
L411ZX: 205 0t HOTEl,IOD..0h
The group averapes for macb £tkdlc,t re are popuLat.Lont-welghted arithmetic "mem. Covrage of countriesn amons the
±nd±cators depandsaon avallabL11ty of date and Is not unLiore.
/b Calmsn otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" nefer to any year between, 1939 and lIEsA "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
19711 and data for %.bt lacent bntjmta" bar en 19M  and 19fl.
.L Dae to emigration populatlon growth rate to lower than rate of natural lncroeaina /d~ 19791 lo. 19631 /f 1977;
LL. Aceme to piped water only; /  1962; /I 1976; Li 1966:  A  1975.
flUE,  1964



J.~~~~~*124r  Ill
PS 1(122  21~3* -  -~- 1114*   .altl 2   R11-111  I
*t120 1  43   111114  *121        at 1-21w   121    4
4. *a.  1.1ll.20aa1a41P p p132113 .0.  -11-  91.4111   .4   I   111
.21 .= A ml-                                                          P~It531.1  411.1   341   224-D12I144I  .*3  *24
A?14                I   141411t225211    1- 1.lt
-. II  .111at?'.t 11*31211    It-2               It*4214J4- 11. a.
Ill: 114                                             ....  .3..Iaa'..-~....... 9ta.tlt -11.   l-       -4  1-212Il2111312
t  $1 14  1-1.  .-j  -I             11   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*1Lt' p1 I4.a2.                                            111 ,44  J.2IS 
2t.t  ltt,)51 *.11,   *23  -t111.  3I.tIll ttlg*2      R.
-.2.twlJat  ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      al.- -tip
1.111tt.44l1.a    l.1a122112t4 . P121)122 1111112422                114   121al 0tI%         sp  t      n..  1145.*t_4,P*42
P.               W;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .1t.41.2  : I 19ea..12 iat     aI-412mez
51 11244 91111212  IP  2444.2 ~' -Iatlo  '.e.aa4u  2..4,  2.a2-    .*2I                                           4p* DI             'a.o a.  p114  1.-Idl AIR-
POLDIRIOl-   -1 .1  11:;P12d42t41  311.2'12P 2111312 Lit '4.11--41   11421t 
X       AL 3- -.l41-11  11251  12 -. t-J        21vtl 1,                    -.4114   22)ltaalDIILtp. P11  tlt22   44I   et1111
I  *lla  Plt Pll PRPI'...ltt.0 111-4  1211llll I1111 ..     2121.'611'It.-21tr.l  .121.1    4112 1-14PW'11
11t2 lllldtdtttO  l.D2t 22 P214 14   .ll    'll...O   1  41    2112  t2a~l.24    21.                                            TIM21. 14241   Itllt'1
1144    l4P4, ft11  PS'21   111   1  1 ...        l    .1132ttt                         -23 p1114-4.21e1.   14.":-1142   112.111   I
21  P t2-111 b4- 1111 L-A 121 P-113   - 42t.23 *2I_   P1t1234142I22-                                                                                                 l-
'tIlp  -3 -O1                            -I,l*1*. I*41-        22t1112   1t2   ~24.  1ut     
4253 942   422a'.1    1024*SPeaa.d1121p1  ttt'.2.tJt.I                 P  42112  aI  .  .1 2tP4d.ttolP             0112R114  lt  IP1151
p11  113112i111  1322121   'IlllIt 122'i22144 - lt.ae  a2114                     l.,111111.2             1   4.II-    21  1-21.41 3t PI tIt 1311
121124g  411.451 'otI  1241  21314  121  21 131444   211.2                       1912) A-2aR.41'-  IO2.'24   5.  11131  )PPp1
.5Ptl  l211 R640 -12021.11.'                                                                                 li.21-tJ.-1 *21 -14
LA.252111   *11   11212  321l112  -   tDll3,422I=4Il~                                                123    1142  '4            S       t      -aIla..     .5  ft.ptp  1
A.,  Pl-IlLD  -11--  _IP-_" I  ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     '.11 12221lI  I  11212221t41122 Ds.Th2t44
-jalp -A  -9"  ~            ~            .2    4*t   111*2  1422t2~11                    12141254
~~~_-I P, t-     "m6Jt41  Il21p1241  ' 2.1122    (111 W1.41 0N114241211-  IlIpiD221
P..20   2  1  P-         elS  1p144I  02- t421t.tt          4-11  1112111.1                                             D41'!_
l110-    R-D1141 PD.       e1241213I211    1111242                                           "  ll43  02p IlttPII.       4211 21411.4  2U11  111214416112*
Sa   21            Aj- 1221           .111 Gv12*1s4  1411                                     1114-b11   rI-t    -1224141.  2   1221   141142212 
'1215412  1221  3. 51  1211211512 1.1 12114II 141t.243.14 Itn. 2               ,.I 1124   I t 1141224   l  111 I PlPy     11   1319144  22
1211)111  1 pa2111  *22101I.-,241141  142`WR5 2-.21.111 :."§..p                     :ts...I                            RS  II' 1*.'112P12
It                          :.J..4  1  1*11*  01 1 11 ...111  111*124  121211.                 211491 -4.  V-114  21112.P I...112    A4431122111192
1142iI  1225.1 I.311.tP Al                    2e11  t  23114PI1111                                                         'P-OI                                   P, 2543.  1-41   3   11111
'd -.101113a21'    121 -.4 l' 24   14   21   11111                                          10.91  111112I   1  43P-1 242t-P111AdO 4223I
It 41431214 *111912I 3231. - 241912.-2%                               bip I  34   :2.tOl.la 212211R. .ID2pA,
'111t122212 031.21.1   4.1311                 ft.. 21 2   111 01 S= I4Pft 121  "= -~ P-    1-3-                                   I           R. ll2Il2,d111
, 11111PROlOWPILL    41114 2Rl1..--- tll           212124  4P12211%:  . OD                .-' 21.4 11  I1.213.  442t1.2121111  4111 115.21 n
I-2e4t2111*02111 -T4~.iiit4545  422142 d41 32 1&14           14  311111   p2111 an1' tt4  111144  I311121
9  -40   C   8BPd ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~'1221 2t4P                                                               4   ai.94*01411.1221142II 2 12111
I           14   211412*   114  111s  2I  *4111.112                                              *2   9222   14  I   31  It3111*224    14   111t414



ANNEX I
-  26  -                                                  Page 4 of 6
UKA - IWag  uums.
opAlatis 6.7 million Cdd192)
CW pa Capitiu  11,390 (192
' hnl CswthBM
emut                    _(at 190 wim)
(illimi OS                     hcbl                    Pl.            ROW
mmucator        ~~at ciwxut prie.)
1963         19    1960   1961   18    1963         1984   1965    1966    199
AMTDL ACMMIM
Grm dit`pCdat A                 8, 114.4      7.2    6.0    5.2    0.3    4.5       5.5    4.2      3.5    3.5
Aplcultixe                      995.9      -4.8    6.1    9.8  -9.9    0.5        9.0    2.0      2.5    2.5
Iuatzy                        2,496.9      16.3    5.8    3.7    1.0    6.9       4.2    3.2      3.2    3.3
Swim                          3,533.0       8.7    3.9    L.1    2.6    3.9       5.5    3.9      3.9    3.9
CAPitn                          6.437.0       4.6    9.9    6.7    3.4    5.9       6.7    4.1      3.7    3.5
GUMS i_mtag                      2,396.1      3.9    5.8   20.3    0.0  -7.0        0.7   -1.9    -0.3    2.9
bpwo~t of poods ai NS           2,855.5      23.3    0.7    3.5   -7.2    4.2       2.3    5.7      5.0    3.6
laporta of Boom  WI S           3,574.2      14.3    7.2   15.7  -1.0   -1.2        1.3    1.8     2.9    3.5
Gows aadnaal -1   t             8,219.5       7.5    6.5    5.5    0.7    3.7       5.6    4.0      3.3    3.5
Cru1a natial avi.p              1,782.5      21.8  -7.2    1.8  -8.5   -4.2         5.0    1.9      1.1    4.0
Pam
dafiazor                                    88.3  100.0  11L.5  139.2  140.5
Edimue rate                                   2.46   2.47   2.03   1.69   1.47      1.286
Sh.re of aCP t mariet pnm  (Z)                      Avur.p Anual lucree (Z)
(at CtI      Me) 2/                           (at CAtRant Prices)
197L     1976      91        9      195      I9L   1971-76       176L          1981-86      198"9
Ow    a dcic pro.ict /1  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    8.8          6.1           3.9          4.0
riafltume            18.8     18.1      13.8     12.3     12.4     11.6     8.2         0.9           1.7           2.5
1datry               20.6     25.9     32.2      30.8     31.8     32.7    10.2         8.6           4.0           4.6
Sinrviaen            47.7    42.9      41.4    43.5      42.1     41.9      8.3         6.7           4.1           3.9
daaq21bn                 82.0     76.8     76.0     72.3     82.0     81.9     9.6          7.0           5.0          3.9
am". in>um               20.0     30.4     32.5     29.5     25.6     21.9    14.1          8.6          -1.9          0.8
fote of owd. anS         23.8     29.1     41.6     35.2     37.4    40.6      5.6         14.1           3.1          5.8
Iior  of pods mI WS   25.8        37.1     50.2     44.0    45.0      44.4    13.1         11.4           1.4          3.8
*m zdm11 pr duct         99.6    98.7    100.9    101.2    100.1    100.3      8.5          6.6           3.9          4.0
Nat fact  Lm.            -0.4     -1.3      0.9      1.2      0.1      0.3      -            -             -            -
Gmi  aioaxl mai          17.6     21.1     24.9     21.9      17.9     19.5     2.9         5.7          -1.2          6.1
A. Z of 
(at cumma)
1976     1981     1912     1963
aimmt roffloam24.2                                           30.0     32.6     34.5
Qwre.t amAituce                                     18.5     22.4     24.9     27.6
azplu. (+) or dficit -)                              5.7      7.5      7.6      6.9
capital lcpmiSwe                                    11.4      9.2      9.8     10.4
lbzup flnmfr.!                                       1.0      2.6      3.7      1.4
............................   ..   ...  ..
1971-76      1976-81       1981-86      1966-9
ann nmAI
aW pMA rawt (7)                                     8.4           6.5          8.3           4.0
aGP pr capita peth  atce (2)                        5.4           3.1           1.1          1.4
ImR                                                 2.7          4.7           8.2           5.9
Meginal saia rame                                  24.0          15.7          -0.1          0.3
lwort eeticity                                      1.5           1.9          0.4           0.9
/1 CP at =arlt prices md c     nts ac factor co-t.
12 Projected yer in cmwtuu prices.
EMEMCP 11-C
Fderry 1915



-   27    -                                        ANNEX  I
Page 5 of 6
IU6BT  -  OL   TA
apaadnn   6.7 millo  (i-82)
GW pw Cmpitau $1,390 (191
Amount                                            (at 1910 Prim)
(i11in mlS                           hctsd                      Pml.         Projectd
at c rt prcm)
IdIcator                      1983             1979   1960   1961   1912   1963           1984    195   1986   1991
ZCXL T
Nmznh          tol            1,895.8            20.7    0.8    4.5   -9.6    9.5             1.2    5.6    5.0    3.4
Cribdi                        787.5            12.4    0.2   -8.7   24.0    5.8           -2.2   -3.6   -6.8  -11.2
Othnr pAm                      93.6            25.1  -11.9   -5.1  -25.6    9.6            8.8   12.0    4.3    2.9
:Mfltuol                    1,014.7            33.0    3.6   17.8   11.9   12.2            0.2   10.7   11.2    8.3
_      _ mhdius W             3,214.2            15.7    7.7   14.6   -4.0    1.3            1.6    2.3    2.8    3.7
Icd                           389.5            39.6   -6.8   28.1   -6.8   22.7           -0.2    4.1    3.6    2.3
pletols                       436.3            9.7   13.3    4.4  -52.1   25.5           -15.7   13.1    7.9    7.1
Mthl.y ad        p qu4d t     552.3           -2.6   -4.4   40.9   15.9  -11.4            -1.0   -2.2   -1.8    2.5
Othd                        1,536.2            24.9   15.3    4.8    7.7   -1.0            9.5    2.4    3.5    3.5
QMXS
ort price ix                                   75.5  100.0  117.4   87.9   77.3           82.1   89.7   94.9  147.9
Iqit price ix                                 85.3  100.0  114.4   85.3   79.6            82.1   90.6   96.3  142.6
71   of tram iz;                              88.5  100.0  102.6  103.0   97.1           100.0   99.0   98.6  103.7
C    ition of ?bxhaidiae Trade (Z)                       Avrap Ahmal Increem (2)
(at carmet pri)                                   (at  se.n price)
1971   1976   191   1982   L986   1991                   1971-76   1976-1   1981F-6 --anz91
Eipor                             100.0  100.0  110.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                     4.1       8.6       3.9       0.5
Ciii. oil                      24.5   40.9   51.5   40.3   28.3   21.5                     4.6       5.8      -5.3        0.03
0thr Iriy                      19.2   13.4    5.0    4.0    6.7    5.5                    -5.4      -1.9       8.5        2.8
56.3   45.7   43.5   55.7   65.0   73.3                     6.4      14.1       10.9       8.5
nooc1.0  100.0  100.0  1W0.0  100.0  100.0                                              13.1      11.5       1.0       3.8
Void                           21.2   12.3   11.2    9.8   12.7   12.1                     0.6      11.9       5.2       3.1
pmtrul                         3.9   11.1   19.0   12. 1   11.9   16.7                    29.2      10.9      -5.7       7.8
iidd=7 aid KqupC t             30.1   31.9   25.2   30.3   22.7   19.9                    13.5       8.7      -2.8        1.1
Otha                          44.8   44.7   44.6   47.8   52.7   52.1                     10.6      13.5       4.3       4.7
9or of Trade vLth          gm= of Trde with            Swum of Trab wich          Sha, of Tru  wddch
(                 lIndustrial Cammtri  (2)    Dl                         Comti  (Z)            Oil  1       (2)       Cmtrully Plid C nrlim  (Z)
1970    1975    19dO      L90        75    _9_ U70   U75   1980                   1970    1975    1980
0IM=  OF 1
bpozu                 70.8    60.1    68.7        4.9    21.7    25.4         13.9   11.1    4.8          9.4     6.1     0.4
Wruot                 85.9    79.5    81.8        7.1    10.9      7.7         0.7    6.3    7.5          6.3     3.1     3.0
EM CPU-C
Febuury 1965



-  28  -                                                ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
MANm OF            Mom L  CrAfAL U O 1Y
WLLOM WU  A Tent p-i
Pbplmt1mu  6.7 adllmn   ld-IN2)
0G per Capite: S1,390 U1=)
W76 1979   198D         ml        iE      39                        U W l   D
aAIA   Or 84069
lht bancej of Maodsl .viw                417.0  -356.0  -412.6  -49.2  -788.    -705.0    -752.0  -W0.7  -744.3  - I.1
Oqatt of Fads & Novim.                1.479.5 3 137.5 3,9U2.3  3.19.5 3.470.1  3,255.5    3,112.0 4,076.1 4,06.  9,^36.
b1ot. of atde & uViami                1,896.5 3,493.5 4,3Wk.9 4,605.7 4,25L5  3,9t0.5    3,8a.  4,7O.8 5,D0.9 9,366.
NBC e frn /2                              5Z.7    Sl.0   W0.0    38.5   40.0        29.5       n.o    32.0    35.0    50
ajr.et wcet baLmm                       -36843  -295.0  -372.6  42D.7  -748.4   -675.4       41.0  -47.7  -709.3  -=.1
Ditet privae in_nt                        1O2.6    50.9   236.0   367.2  402.2 2 2.5         21.0   250.0   275.0   388.
.LT 1aE  (MO                              167.8   4W4.6   3S3.1   29.2   330.7    394.1       399.0   472.7   50.3   57.J
Official                                130D    191.9   262.7   247.2   277.0    311.4        a.n.  409.5   435A       .7
Priwe.                                   37.4   292.7    80.4   46$0    53.7      82.7        a.n.   632    68.9  3W.1
Othr capital                              55.2  -116.6  -14L6    52.4  -11.6         0.0      426.0    -       -       -
Qow in suma                                38.7  -123.9  -84.9   -2.1    27.1       39.0      -3L.0    50.    -70.0  -me
Intwta.imL                                304.5   415.5   455.7   536.1   S60.5    567.3        m..   7DA.  590.0 23.3
bm u a umdu of 4la,t                       2.2      L6      1.4    1.4    1.7        L.7        n.^    1.3       L3      3.0
1576  1979   ~~Actul                          PEaL
tY76     1979    ISHD    -        l9lI1Li  D83 3/ l         9                11
GM D _tLTM
official iiDa                                 50.2    50.7     41.5    20.3    19.0      22.1    26.0    -       -
Gmro  disb.uu..to Dof I  Loon               229.5   637.8    557.9   605.7   620.4    797.6   733.0   966.7 1,063.9 1,375.6
asiAl                                        10.O    40.9     MA.4    2$5.5   Z47.1    317.2    .n4.  279.3   26   43B.1
3ilc1a.a                                  95.1   140.0      .4    239.5   230.9    317.2       n.   279.3   2A6   43L.
ML                                        B.9    0.2        1.0     1.1      1.0     -       -       -        _       _
oumr icItriml                              0.0     0.7      6.9      4.9    15.1     -       -       -        -       -
ikm      ima                               125.5   496.9    351.5   360.2   373.3    480.4    nA    637.J   m7         97.5
Privaza                                   60.1   378.3     A.4    222.9   245A      321.5    un.  353.0   396.7   523
Official aIpt credits                      9.9    49.6     55.5    3Sb    2.4        51.4     na.  162.0   tg.    15.A
am1D                                     25.3    55.4      51.1    69A    31.        89.6   19.2   150.1   157.3   196.
Odcr a,lea;ls5                            1C.2    U.7      21.6    32.5    21.7       8.0    an_.    2.2       24      3.
EXEBIIL MMI
1kbc Oac.ixc  ad Diab .                  lk166.5 3,023.6  3.229.2  3,231.7 3,471.6  3.35.7 4.29.3 4,767.1 5,271A  7.463
Official                                 971.9 1.837.0  2.020.1  2,131.1 2.330.3  2.841.8 3,016.7 3,426.2 3,JI6I  6,09.4
urD                                    127.9   216.8    25S8    306.5   363.7    434.2  53.    621.7    09.B 1.05
Mtty                                   6.1    67.3       67.9    67.5    67.8      67.0     6.1    65.4    64       57.5
Otiur                                  779.9 1.552.9  1.697A   1,757.1 1,89LS  2.140.5 2.46.4 2,739.1 3,017.5 4.927.9
Privata                                  194. 1.1M.6  1,209.1  1.W10.6 1.141.3  1,223.4 1.277.7 1,360.9  1,409.7 1,422.9
UMd nab     debt                         l,11D.8 1,819.8  1,90D.1  1,16.4  1.35.3  1.650.3  1.807.2 2,183.4 2,2.6  311.3
a  debt ervice pn                           98.6   315.9    431.0    S17.5   485.5    60D.3   50.0   756A6   855.0  101.2
citn.t                                    36.9   162.7    216.1   205.0   195.8 S    96.8   D6.0   262.7   295.3   400.5
Pu s                                        6.7    10.1      11.       3.1    14.0     1.4    19.8    3.A    13.7  U .3
Pay-its   103                               2.2     4.4      4.9      6.1     5.9       7.4     6.7     7.7     7.8     6.1
Averq  intenst raw of no ISm  (1)          5.4     7.1      6.9      0.3     7.7       7.2     8.5     38      7.7     7.3
Official                                   4.3     5.6      5.9      6.9     7.1       -       -       -       -
Priae                                     7.9     9.8      10.5    12.7     9.4       -        -       -       -       _
Ava  ,mtricy of new Low (v..r)              16.6    15.S     17.2    L5.4    17.7   S .9    13.9    12.5    14.6    13.4
Official                                  20.4    19.4     19.4    18.2    20.2        -       -       -       -       -
Frivske                                   R.6    9.2        9.2      5.8    10.2       -       -       -       -       -
As Z of Debt O,tsAirg
at FM of Ient R   t
Tro (193)
t  smam
Matirity stnWbw  of debt outSCavJ Lt:
cLtizatim  due vidhin ' years                                  38.b
Amortitcion die vethn 20 Wear.                                 68.b
tnrnemt swnetLi  of debt autuzscat  .t  I:
intemt due withizi firn cr                                     s..
L4r  my no*tid up duL to roundult.
/2 Incluing  t5m.m
/3 tDeb fieua. mm atwala ducu4  aid 1932.
t9e3 daktp uwlfe ateul    _in ma. but pomjat dibneot    id repayms.
_   Q   -C
b  -M



_29_                                         AIt
- 29-
. umw at UK Mr awDA?m IN TM=SZ
L EAfI O Ult WU AMs a as CM of ftS*  30, 19W.)
-m  o r                                                                                                a"
audit   CA rWA                                                                          ___ I___A             __
rag      lam  MA Cmdits Rely Dabwmd                                                     39.0   75.2
14.31     1977       Raubli of Sx"ia               ftim    Dult                          42.00                3.61
1445      1977        8M.                          Faztth War Suply                      21.00                2.11
1601      1978       Republic of Tmiaia            haul oadDs (TiX HiWOW)                32.O0               15.71
1675      1979       Republic of 1ciia             Sawa- Urban Smrp                      26.50               13.32
1705      1979       Republic of Twisia            Second Ubm  DmelopmK                  19.00               11.82
1746      1979       lepublc of 1bmiua              9cmw Fi.riea                         28.50               18.18
1796      3960       la ic of Twsia               SkuChmm Irriptici                      25.00               16.86
1797      1980       Offl   da ?OM  NaCon=    2iid Pert                                  42.50               12.3
IJ41      1910       lmiec at 1Tmia                FoWrh V;y                             36.50               25.A4
36        16         SAd   T Mi=M  de
1E1ccziciti at du GRz        sacmi Naba Ga pipeline                37.00                18.31
3865      1960       BMW  tMim.le d    mie    2biid hViculbzzul COedit                   30.00               17.57
1961      1981       Repblic of Dzisie             FaLwth lAic-aion                      26.00               22.92
1969      1981       Republic of Dnisia            Small-Scale 7natry llove1o            30.00               25.40
1997      191             lic of lmisia            Jrthwst 9 3ral Dev      mt            A=.                 18.36
-303      1981       Socidtf  dmisew  de
:leltricitf at du Gaz        Ihird Power                           41.50               29.50
2005       1981      Republic of  m2isi            HauCh ai Poilatica                    12.50               10.91
2012      1981       Republic of Dzsia             Texrile Rehibilicatico                18.60                3.80
2D52       198       Repblic of fizia              Grain Discributima ad Storage         42.00               40.90
210       1962       Republc of Tunisia            Fifth Ei*Wy (Rral  1ouds)             35.50               33.64
2113      1982        W1                           Electridal Ma chaical Inatrine    30.50                   19.28
2131'     1982                                     Sixth Wato Supply                     3D.S0               1L20
2157      1982       4mblic of TunisiA             Irrigatiou Davlopmn                   22.00               20.99
2197      196m       Rpulblic of Mmisia            Tadmical Aic4.50                                           3.99
2223-     163        3q lAk of  rdisie              bui Dmlcr   m                  -    25.00                24.41
2Z30      1983       Republic of IM>isia           Idiction V                            27.00               26.60
2231'      1983      lpW lic oi  misia             Cenral taxdia ITiaptio                16.50               15.35
2255       1983      Rpublic of Tunisia            Urban Severie fm                      34.00               33.75
2289       1983      Republic of Twisia            Sfac Flood Protection                 25.00               24.-7
23M        1983      Republic of Tunsia            Industry (IV) Fowziry                 16.80               16.1.
2346       1984      Republic of Tuisia            Hiniig Technical Asaistac             13.40               13.40
2368       1964      Bepublic of fmisia            Se 1th We Supply                      50.00               50.O0
2429 a/   1984       Republic of Tunisia           Secod Urban Truiport                  33.00               33.00
2455 1    19864      Socidtl faiuim  de
1'ElectricicA et du Gaz      Fouth Power                           38.70               38.70
_>L                                                             i,326.00   75.2
Of Aih has ja  repaid                                             179.38   86
Total o ourstasdirg
Amc    Sold                                  14.33
of 4ich has been repi                       14.33
Total mw  held by, Bnk and    b/
Tocal Ulhiibud                                                  1.146.62  66.6        679.53
8/  Nat yet effective
b/  Prior to 6=>       r ate adjusact



_30 -
hpa  2 o 2
D. srAMr C  DC DESDn        s  IN nRI1  (a. sE!aM 30, 1984)
Aunt of S$ Miil.im
TOW  Ob-34slator                  T"?yp of lusizua       lowi  Fgit        Tot
1962       NK Eugais                          Fertii.zes             2.0      1.5       3.5
1966       Socikt  Hat. d'Ivestn-t            Dev. Fiwne Co.                  0.6       0.6
1969       MFr (Touisi)                       Dev. Finzce Go.        8.0      2.2      10.2
1970       Soci4tf Mat. d'lwbm=t              Dev. Finance Co.               0.6        0.6
1973       Sociht8 Mi.stiqie                  Tourism                1.6      0.3       1.9
et Hoe1like   SL
1975       Socis  dE tt   et                 Taorim                  2.5     0.6        3.1
d
i974       Indusuties Qdios                   ohmls                           0.6       0.6
3978       Mr                                 Dev. Finance Co.               1.2        1.2
3984       Soci&  luuiee de leairg            lauizg Co.                     0.5
Tota (kCs aiczts                                         14.1     8.1 1/   22.2
lA# Cancellations,                                       12.2     1.8       14.0
Temnat ans, -qymm
ad SO
Total Catwats rw                                          1.9     6.3        8.2
held by IC
Total Uikis5bused                                         O.U     0.3        0.3
1/ MM F84 lFC's Board apprnoe a equty  ues-t of I$0.4 2i.lliii in Fbar. fhe inues;t
it  has not bee sigind yet pesdirg resolution of umresold issues.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
Supplemental Proiect Data Sheet
Section 1: TimetauLAe of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country                7 months (June - December 1983)
to prepare the project:
(b) Agency that prepared the project:        Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), with
assistance from FAO/CP
{c) Project first identified by Bank:        August 1983
(d) Bank appraisal mission:                  January/February 1984
(e) Negotiations completed:                  January 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:           September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of effectiveness: establishment of the Project
Implementation Unit in the CCDA and appointment of its staff (para.
51), appointment of CRDA staff (para. 51) and design of a project
-accounting system (para. 56).
(b) Condition of disbursement for credit funds: adoption by the Goverment
of an action plan satisfactory to the Bank on agricultural credit
issues, and signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to
the Bank with BNT (para. 55).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Other conditions:
(i)    OEP would lease the management of the project milk collection
center at El Kef to either a private company or a service
cooperative, under an agreement satisfactory to the Bank, no
later than five years after the start of operations of the
center, OEP having assisted the lessee for at least one year
prior to the signature of the lease agreement (para. 53).
(ii)   The price margin for milk collection would be sufficient to
cover its operating and maintenance costs and that for the
animal purchase centers to cover their operating and
maintenance costs from the start of their operations and
investment costs no later than five years after the start of
their operations (paras. 53 and 54).
Ciii) The Government would take all necessary measures to ensure
adequate incentives for milk and meat marketing and fertilizer
distribution at least cost to the Government budget in order
to promote increased agricultural production and the wider
availability of fertilizer (para. 57).



7r30                        ao 830'                                                   o00                        930
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
Project Location
-37-0 
Tabar I
,JX  {_  /V                     s                u t~Du 
A' (1 s  ;   J   s  \    \       'El
_ A.W  8__d   M E.                                        |
_S     __ W do W                                                        .1           \ ig    l
-36-00            To a ". wowJ
noer          El K3' *,            /  El A 
d   S-w              J                             \pINhmon -       t  8    >          9\  EI~(    -.
.   _ 1   I T A I Y   tx   S  s dY''I      E
\g  '                       )                 Aj~~~~      ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~holoT-c  _
tfi   j               _~~~~~~35'30                       \           
1 B..                                        .    .'t
\s _, ro*~ of                                                                        . o,
ALGERIA   , ,                                    
1 W        L I 8 Y A*00                                                              /
?~~~~~~~30    800~~~~~~~~~~  0                                         9 M



IBRD 17994
10ioo °°                         IO0                                                                    FEBEUARY 19S1
Bizerte
/ r R      s~~~~~~~~~~~~i Jebe
37-00-
rmb a boProject Area Boundarv
Main Roods
lsohyets in Millimnters      3J N
*f       -  Notional Capitol
_a beul            -         Governorate Capitols
--- Governoarte Boundaries
---  r Ahi.,,.  0oGhouon A   <   ,)                                         - -      _  International Boundaries
*    Elevations (in Meotrs)
- 600
t>  SocuafJ4                                                            - 200
Chotts (Saltwater Lakes)
Hwglo
36800
/       g                /            0     /            \                               0      10    20      30     40      50
t  |SeJiho     /   /        S 3                                            niC.OMETERS
/   f  g                Yol~~~~IaIo 4 Sousse
Mon-stor
Ko-roucr                                                   bo
</>   (                  M       o     h     d r~~~~~~~~~~~ohdio3r
35 30'
_                        C      z     k                    aY o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wr Eno
S.s,  . 5.d. A;,o,.         ._'.        (                                                     3
X                 W''5      4                        '3C EI       @ m                   0                            1 130



