Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5142-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
February 6, 1985
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department
This dooment has a resticted distnrbution and may be used by recipients ily in the performaune Of
J teir OUcil. duies. Its contents may not othrwise be dislosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUrVAIEXNTS
Tunisian Dinar (D) 1.00 = US$1.37
US$l.0o = D 0.73
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km) = 0.6214 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 2.4711 acres (ac)
1 liter (1) = 1.0567 quarts (qt)
1 metric ton (ton) = 2,204.6226 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
APMANE   : Small Farmer-Supervised Credit Project in the Northeast
(Assistance aux Petits et Moyens Agriculteurs du Nord-Est)
BNT      : National Bank of Tunisia
(Banque Nationale de Tunisie)
BNDA     : National Bank for Agricultural Development
(Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole)
CCDA     : Central Agricultural Development Conimission
(Counissariat central de developpement agricole)
CCGC     : Central Cooperative for Field Crops
(Cooperative Centrale des Grandes Cultures)
CIMMYT   : International Center for Maize and Wheat Improvement
(Centre International pour l'Am6lioration du Ma-is et du Ble)
CRDA     : Regional Agricultural Development Commission
(Commissariat regional de d6veloppement agricole)
COCEBLE  : Central Cooperative for Wheat
(Cooperative Centrale du B1)
CTV      : Local Extension Center
(Cellule territoriale de vulgarisation)
DAAF     : Department of Administration and Finance (of MOA)
(Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financieres)
DAPMEA   : Department of Assistance to Small and Medium Size Farmers
(Direction de l'Assistance aux Petits et
Moyens Exploitants Agricoles)
DERV     : Department of Training, Research and Extension
(Direction de l'Enseignement, de la Recherche et de la
Vulgarisation)



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
DGR       : Department of Rural Engineering
(Direction du Genie Rural)
DPA      : Department of Animal Production
(Direction de la Production Animale)
DGPC      : Highway Department of the Ministry of Public Works
(Direction G&enrale des Ponts et Chaussees)
DPSAE    : Department of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analyses
(Direction de la Planification, des Statistiques et des Analyses
Economiques)
DPV       : Department of Crop Production
(Direction de la Production Vegetale)
DRGR     : Center for Rural Engineering Research
(Centre de Recberche dui G6nie Rural)
IFAD     : International Fund for Agricultural Development
(Fonds International pour le D6veloppement Agricole)
INRAT    : National Institute of Agricultural Research
(Institut National de Recherche Agronomique Tunisien)
MOA      : Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministere de 1'Agriculture)
MOE       : Ministry of Public Works
(Minis tere de 1' Equipement)
MOF      : Ministry of Finance
(Minist6re des Finances)
MOP      : Ministry of Planning
(Ministere du Plen)
oC       : National Cereal Board
(Office des Cereales)
OEP      : National Livestock and Range Agency
(Office d'Elevage et du Paturage)
UCP      : Production Cooperative
(Unite Cooperative de Production)
UJSAID    : United States Agency for International Development
(Agence des Etats-Unis pour le Developpement International)
This document has a resticd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INRODUCTION ..........        ......................................    1
II.    SECTOR BACKGROUND ...........................................    I
A.  Agricultural Planning and Performance .....     ..............   2
B.  Sector Issues ...........................................    3
C.  Bank Involvement in Agricultural Projects ....    ...........   5
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                  6
A. Main Features ...........................................   6
B. Productive Potential and Constraints .....      ...............    6
C.  Other Projects in the Area ..............................    9
IV.   THE PROJECT ...........      ......................................    9
A.  Rationale ...............................................    9
B. Objectives ..............................................   9
C.  Detailed Description ...........      .................   10
D.  Status of Engineering ............. ...............   13
V.     PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .............................   13
A. Cost Estimates .................                             13
B. Financing Plan .14
C. Procurement .15
D. Disbursement .16
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .............................   18
A.  Organization ............................................  18
B.  Implementation ..................               .......  19
C. Credit .......  21
D. Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................  22
E. Accounts, Audits and Reporting ..........................  22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Tunisia in
January/February 1984. Mission members included D. Lister (Mission Leader),
J.B. Doolette (Agriculturalist), M. Ballesteros (Economist/ Pricing), and
B. Baudet (Credit Consultant). The appraisal team was assisted at various
stages by Messrs. J-P. Chausse (Economist/Credit), B. Dussert (Financial
Analyst), and J. Hall (Livestock Specialist).



-ii-
Page No.
VII.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .............................  23
A.  Production, Yields and Technological Chang3 . .    ...........   23
B. Markets and Prices ...  24
C.  Farmers' Incentives   .....................................   24
D.  Cost Recovery ..........................................    25
E.  Economic Analysis .......................................   26
F.  Risk and Sensitivity Analysis       ...........................   27
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................................        27
ANNEX: Plan of Action for the Organization of the Project
Extension Services
SUPPORTING TABLES
Table 1:  Project Component by Year
Table 2:  Summary Account by Project Component
Table 3:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
Table 4:  Rural Roads Segments
Table 5:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Ministry of Agriculture - Organization Chart
(World Bank - 26161)
2. Implementation Schedule (World Bank - 26200)
MAP:  IBRD 17994 - Project Location
IMPLEME=NTATION VOLUME - Table of Contents
Annex 1:  The Project Area
Annex 2:  Crop Production and Cropping Systems
Annex 3:  Livestock Development
Annex 4:  Meat Marketing
Annex 5:  Agricultural Extension Services
Annex 6:  Agricultural Finance
Annex 7:  Wheat, Beef and Milk Pricing
Annex 8:  Farm Models
Annex 9:  Detailed Cost Estimates
Annex 10: Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
2441E/p50



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                              Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiary-                           National Bank of Tunisia (BNT)
Amount:                                US$15.0 million equivalent
Terms:                                 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate
Onlendinir                             The Government would onlend US$8.0 million
of the Bank loan to BNT on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
These terms and conditions dould be
determined on the basis of an action
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, covering
national credit issues, to be adopted by
the Government by June 30, 1985.
Disbursement of these funds would be
subject to adoption of this action plan.
Project
Description                           The proposed project would help alleviate
the constraints to increased production
of cereals and livestock products in
Northwest Tunisia by strengthening
extension and research in the area and
improving supportive infrastructure. The
project would have an import substitution
impact and increase farm income. The
project would consist of provision of
extension, research and livestock
services, farm machinery testing, rural
roads upgrading, project management,
training, technical assistance, studies
and credit for on-farm investments,
seasonal inputs and input resale centers.
The project would raise the incomes of
about 4,500 farmers and 24 production
cooperatives. The risk that farmers might
adopt the new project technology more
slowly than expected is minimized by
projection of realistic adoption rates and
by ensuring the adequacy of incentives
and .he availability of inputs on credit.



-ii-
Estimated Project Cost.v
Local     Foreign       Total
US$ Million    --
Extension                                              1.7      1.2       2.8
Research                                               0.3      0.3       0.7
Livestock Services                                     1.1      0.7       1.8
Farm Machinery Testing                                 0.2      0.2       0.4
Rural Roads                                            2.4      1.9       4.3
Project Management                                     0.2      0.0       0.2
Training, Technical Assistance, Studies                0.5      1.3       1.7
On-farm Investments                                    5.5      5.2      10.7
Seasonal Inputs                                        2.1      1.1       3.1
Input Resale Centers                                   0.7      0.3       1.0
Base Cost                                   14.6      12.3     26.9
Physical Contingencies                       1.5       1.3      2.7
Price Contingencies                          5.0       3.3      8.3
Total Project Cost                          21.1'k   16.8      37.9'
Financing Plan                                       Local   ForeiRn   Total
US$ Million      -
World Bank                                    -       15.0     15.0
Belgium                                       -        0.2      0.2
BNT                                          5.4       1.6      7.0
Beneficiaries                                3.2        -       3.2
Government                                  12.5        -      12.5
Total                  21.1'k   16.8      37, gob
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
US$ Million ---               -
Annual                           0.7    1.8    3.5    4.0    3.5    1.5
Cumulative                      0.7    2.5    6.0   10.0   13.5   15.0
Economic Rate of Return: about 30 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5142-TUN, dated February 6, 1985
Map No. 17994
/a Figures may not add due to rounding.
/b Including US$9.7 million of taxes and duties.
(SUPERCOPY OF 827Q/p3&4)



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Northwest Agricultural Production Project would support the
development of rainfed agriculture in one of the major production zones of
Tunisia as part of the Government's drive to increase food production.
It would achieve its objectives primarily through the introduction in the
Project area of an effective agricultural extension service, organized along
the lines of the Training and Visit (T&V) System, to transfer known improved
agricultural technologies to farmers, and other support measures.  This would
be the first experience in Tunisia of the introduction of a unified
professional extension service; similar arrangements are planned to be
introduced nationwide after the introduction and testing of the extension
system introduced under this Project.
1.02     Following publication of the Bank Agricultural Sector Survey of
Tunisia in September 1982,-' the Project was identified in mid-1983 by a
joint Bank/FA0-CP mission. The Project aims at contributing to the priority
identified in the sector study of improving production from Tunisia's
extensive rainfed agricultural areas which have been neglected in the past
compared with the irrigated areas.
I, SECTOR BACKGROUND
2.01     Almost half of Tunisia's 6.7 million population is rural.
Agriculture's share in Tunisia's GDP declined from 24% in 1960 to 12% in
1983. Similarly, agriculture's share in total employment declined from 56% in
1960 to about one third presently. The relative decline of agriculture has
been caused mainly by the more rapid growth of other sectors, particularly
petroleum, manufacturing and tourism. Over the past fifteen years, however,
the value of agricultural production has grown substantially.
2.02     Tunisia has a total land area of 16.4 million ha of which 8.4 million
ha are suitable for agriculture and grazing. Forests and esparto grass cover
1.2 million ha, and 2.2 million ha are used for grazing. Of the 5 million ha
of cultivable area, 34% is planted in cereals, 35% in fruit trees, 5% in forage
crops, 2% in grain legumes, 3% in vegetables and 1% in industrial crops; 21%
is normally left fallow. Tunisia's ratio of irrigable to arable land is very
low (3.3% in 1977-80), reflecting scarcity of water resources. Tunisia has an
irrigation potential of about 250,000 ha of which 205,000 ha are presently
irrigable and about 160,000 ha effectively irrigated. Underutilization of
irrigation water is a major issue in the irrigation subsector.
I/  Report No. 3876-TUN, September 29, 1982.



- 2 -
2.03     Tunisia can be divided into three agro-climatic zones.  The northern
part (25% of Tunisia's land area) is the most fertile, receiving considerable
rainfall (400-1,000 mm). The central zone (15Z of Tunisia) receives between
200 mm and 400 mm of rainfall. Rainfed agriculture in the central zone is
limited to fruit tree plantations (mostly olives), low yield cereals, and
range. The southern part (60% of Tunisia) is a pre-desert zone receiving less
than 200 mm of rainfall with extensive grazing and some irrigated agriculture.
The North is Tunisia's predominant agricultural region both for rainfed and
irrigated farming, and farmers of the region are generally responsive to
innovations. Variations in soil, topography and climate produce a range of
potentials and variability between years. Development has been uneven,
favoring mainly the development of irrigated agriculture, so that most rainfed
areas including the Project area have sizeable unfulfilled potential.
A. Agricultural Planning and Performance
2.04     Under the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81), Government's objectives
for the agricultural sector included the pursuit of food self-sufficiency
(defined as a balanced commodity trade in agricultural products), increased
rural employment and income generation, foreign exchange earnings and savings,
and economic growth. The investment effort in agriculture as a percentage of
total investment corresponded to agriculture's share of value added (13Z).
Investments were concentrated in irrigation (442), farm machinery (171), and
livestock (121). Overall performance of the sector has been satisfactory,
although the pace of growth in recent years (0.92 per annum for 1976-81) has
slowed down considerably compared to earlier years (8.21 per annum for
1971-76), strongly affected by drought in recent years. Until the severe
drought of 1982-83, growth in cereals (about 41 per annum) and fruits and
vegetables (61) exceeded population growth (about 2.6Z per annum) and the
1980-81 cereal harvest of 1.2 million tons was the best ever recorded.
2.05     The Government's Fifth Plan objectives in employment and food
self-sufficiency, however, were not attained: the impact of employment-
generating investments such as irrigation, livestock, and fruit trees was
offset by employment replacing investments in farm mechanization. The
agricultural trade balance worsened, because of relative stagnation of
exports, a rapid growth of imports, especially cereals, and a deterioration in
the terms of trade of agricultural goods. Tunisia's rapid per capita income
and population growth, combined with a shift of tastes to higher value crops,
created a growth of demand in food, diverting exports to local consumption and
increasing imports.
2.06     The basic issues for agriculture under the Sixth Plan (1982-86) have
not changed though the need to resolve key issues such as employment and
regional income distortions, as well as increased efficiency of investments,
has become greater due to a projected decline in the rate of economic growth
and the necessity to adjust the economy to a post-hydrocarbon situation of
lower investments. The Government is attempting to achieve this adjustment
through, inter alia, (a) shifting investments from large, capital-intensive
projects to the promotion of employment opportunities in small- and medium-
scale enterprises such as in agriculture; and (b) the creation of an
appropriate policy environment for removing constraints for farmers, including
the introduction of realistic prices for agricultural products. The
Government's investment strategy is shown by an increase in the total



investments allocated to agriculture from 13% (1977-81) to 19% (1982-86); and
within agriculture, a decline in the share of investment in capital- intensive
subsectors such as farm machinery (17 to llZ) and an increase in the share of
labor-intensive subsectors such as livestock (12 to 15X) and fruit tree
plantations (8 to 172). In pursuit of increased food production, more
attention is being given to the improvement of production from the rainfed
areas, particularly for grain and livestock production. The proposed resetting
of priorities is dependent on increasing absorptive capacity in the more
labor-intensive subsectors. The Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2197-TUN) is facilitating the preparation of high priority projects and
subsector strategies including policy reforms.
B. Sector Issues
Land Tenure
2.07     Land distribution is highly skewed.  Most farms are small (681 have
less than 10 ha), and fragmented (707 have two or more separate parcels).
Much of the farm land is owned by absentee landlords who in many cases have
little interest in intensification, and by cooperatives which sometimes exploit
the land poorly due to lack of managerial skills. Few farmers have land
titles. There is no legal protection for tenant farmers which discourages
them from investing in agriculture.  Land reform has been discussed for many
years, but action has been slow and generally confined to the public irrigation
areas where land consolidation has begun. In order to accelerate the current
program of land titling and provide a better balance of land distribution, the
Government is preparing a National Cadastre and Cartography Project for
implementation during the Seventh Plan period. Following discussion with the
Government of a preliminary subsector report prepared by the Bank, a more
detailed study of land issues is being carried out under the Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 2L97-TUN). Some land consolidation has also taken
place under Bank-financed irrigation projects.
Extension and Research
2.08     At present there is no effective national extension service in
Tunisia: various projects and commodity organizations have successfully
introduced autonomous or semi-autonomous extension systems for individual
crops or regions, often relying on special organizational arrangements which
are not necessarily permanent. Few activities are based on properly formulated
extension messages which respond to the needs of the farmers, or conflicting
advice is provided to farmers by competing extension agents. The management
systems in place seldom ensure the most efficient use of extension personnel.
In addition, the agents perform multiple functions including credit analysis
and the collection of agricultural statistics besides their extension work,
and are inadequately trained. While some good progress has been made in
agricultural research, insufficient emphasis is given to adaptive research.
Research is too centralized and has little contact with farmers, thus lacking
the critical feedback from farmers needed to establish appropriate
priorities. The proposed Project would help reform and strengthen extension
and research services in the Project area as the first stage of a national
program to be developed under the Technical Assistance Project referred to
above for implementation during the Seventh Plan period (1987-91).



- 4-
Input Supply and Output Marketing
2.09     Public marketing and input supply enterprises exist for cereals,
grain legumes. olives, wine, meat, fertilizer, seed, and farm machinery.
Several Government development authorities (Offices) participate in the
collection of milk, fruit and vegetables. All these institutions require
improvements in their efficiency. They are slow to respond to market signals
and to introduce cost-cutting efficiencies. Farm inputs are frequently not
available in the quantities and at the time required. Private marketing and
input suppliers are not permitted to compete legally with public enterprises
for certain commodities (cereals, olive oil, certified seed of high yielding
cereal varieties). The proposed Project would improve the collection of milk
and the supply of inputs in the Project area, especially seed and fertilizer,
partly by encouraging private sector initiative in these activities. An input
supply study financed under the Technical Assistance Project has already led
to urgently needed increases in fertilizer distribution margins, and an
agricultural marketing study, also funded from the Technical Assistance
Project, is expected to lead to a series of output marketing measures for
implementation during the VIIth Plan period.
Agricultural Credit
2.10     The institutional structure of formal agricultural credit in Tunisia
is complex. The principal vehicle for medium- and long-term investment credit
is the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT). The main sources of short-term credit
are BNT (in the case of larger farmers, generally clients of long standing)
and the Mutual Guarantee Societies (SCMs). SCMs grant seasonal credit, using
BNT funds but with Government guarantee, to small- and medium-size farmers.
Supervised credit is also offered by a number of agricultural development
projects financed by external donors. Some Government-owned enterprises
operating outside the financial sector (e.g., Offices) provide credit in kind.
A new agricultural bank (BNDA) was recently created to finance investments by
large farmers or agricultural enterprises. Credit demand in the Project area
ic currently constrained by the farmers' lack of appreciation of investment
opportunities, primarily due to the ineffective extension system referred to
above. The ongoing Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1885-TUN) is
addressing priority credit problems.
Prices and Subsidies
2.11     In an effort to provide food at low cost, most consumer prices are
fixed by Government. Traditionally, farmgate prices in Tunisia have also been
fixed artificially low compared to world prices, discouraging the use of more
productive but higher cost techniques and investment. The exception was for
irrigated crops (most fruit and vegetables) for which output prices are free.
Farm input subsidies, which the Government has seen as a means of compensating
farmers for low producer prices, benefit only a minority of farmers and tend
to be provided for the most modern inputs (purebred cows, feed concentrate,
irrigation water, fertilizer, pesticide, etc). While this encourages use of
these inputs, it also causes excessive use by farmers fortunate enough to
obtain the subsidies. The Government recognizes the negative resource
allocation, budgetary and income distribution effects of its present pricing



and subsidy policies and one of its objectives is to move towards a pricing
system that more closely reflects the real costs and benefits of inputs and
outputs to the economy. Some agricultural producer prices (milk and cereals)
have thus been increased more rapidly than average price inflation in the
recent past. As a result, current producer prices are now for the most part
reasonably in line with world prices in nominal terms. Consumer prices for
milk and beef have also been increased recently.
C. Bank Involvement in Agricultural Proiects
2.12     Bank Group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967, and
to date 17 projects (including two highway projects and one technical
assistance operation) have been approved for a total of US$343.2 million of
Bank/IDA funds. Of these, seven have been closed. Those remaining consist of
three irrigation projects: the Southern Irrigation Project (Loan 1796-TUN),
the Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project (Loan 2157-IUN), and the
Central Tunisia Irrigation Project (Loan 2234-TUN); one Fisheries Project
(Loan 1746-TUN); one Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1885-TUN); one Rural
Development Project for the Northwest Region (Loan 1997-TUN); and one Grain
Distribution and Storage Project (Loan 2052-TUN). The Bank is also supporting
infrastructure and on-farm investments through the Third and Fifth Highway
Projects (Loans 1601-TUN and 2108-TUN). The Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2197-TUN) also has a substantial agricultural component including the
studies mentioned above.
2.13     Performance under these projects has been mixed.  Implementation of
the irrigation projects has been the most satisfactory, the irrigation Offices
having demonstrated their ability to implement construction works efficiently.
On-farm development and the implementation of efficient farm support services
have been slower to materialize, partly due to the priority given to
construction work, and the non-involvement of farmers in the decisions
concerning water distribution and operation of the systems. The First
Fisheries Project was completed at the end of 1979 with considerable delays
and low loan recoveries for boats. These problems were addressed under the
Second Fisheries Project after agreement was reached on a strategy for
improving recoveries. The First Agricultural Credit Project financed BNT
lending for farm machinery, date palm plantations and dairy development and
processing, but was not fully disbursed until 34 months after the original
closing date because Bank Group funds were onlent at a higher interest rate
than Government funds. The PPAR (No. 2497 of May 11, 1979) indicates that
while the project achieved a good rate of return, mechanization did not yield
the benefits expected, and dairy processing suffered major cost overruns.
Under the Second Agricultural Credit Project, the continuing problem of higher
interest rates on Bank funds than on Government funds, and the lack of
decentralization of BNT's subloan approval process, caused disbursements to be
slower than anticipated. The project closed on December 31, 1982, two years
after the initial closing date. The Third Agricultural Credit Project is
addressing priority credit problems: it calls for uniformity of lending terms
regardless of the source of financing, and requires BNT to increase
agricultural staff, establish a staff training program, decentralize appraisal
and approval of small subloans to branch offices, undertake annual reviews of
the adequacy of its agricultural interest rates compared to price intlation



and make adequate proposals for their modification as necessary, and improve
recoveries. Progress so far has been slow but in the right direction. Action
has been taken to decentralize BNT's operations, establish training programs,
raise interest rates for larger farmers and improve loan recoveries, the last
by granting BNT the "privilege du Tresor" allowing overdue loans to be
recovered without lengthy legal proceedings. Following discussions of the
Bank's Financial Sector Survey and Agricultural Strategy Paper during the
first half of CY85, the Government intends to prepare a plan for further
action on interest rates and measures to improve loan recoveries (para. 6.13).
The physical implementation of the Northwest Rural Development Project has
made a good start. The Grain Storage Project is also now making a good start
after initial delays and the recruitment of new consulting engineers. Under
the Technical Assistance Project, studies are being carried out for several
subsectors. The Government also completed a study on milk collection. The
proposed Project reflects Drogress on several important issues which have
emerged from the preparation of these studies, including milk marketing and
fertilizer distribution.
_L THE PROJECT AREA
A. Main Features
3.01     The Project area (see Map), located in the plains of Northwestern
Tunisia, includes some 400,000 ha of some of the best agricultural land in the
country. This land is situated in some 39,000 private farms (86% of the land
area), 68 production cooperatives (11%) and 11 agro-combinats (3%). The
present land use pattern is simple, basically cereals grown in rotation with
fallow, with some grain legumes for family consumption. Sheep and dairy
cattle in varying proportions are included in the farming enterprise to use
crop residues and the natural growth on the land left fallow. Livestock is of
secondary importance in terms of land use but currently provides some 25% of
the farmers' incomes.
B. Productive Potential and Constraints
3.02     The productive potential of the climatic zone within which the
Project area is situated has been under field evaluation by Tunisian research
agencies since the late sixties. Research recommendations have been tested
under farming conditions on the Fretissa experimental and demonstration farm
operated -with the assistance of the Belgian aid program since 1969. Technical
specialists from the farm and from INRAT have shown that major productivity
increases can be obtained by a better integration of livestock and cereal
production, as has also already been demonstrated by some farmers in the
Project area. Application of known and tested improved technologies can lead
to farm level yield increases of some 75% for field crops. For example,
farmers adopting recommended improved cultural practices have obtained long-
term average yield increases, in the case of wheat of some 750 kg per hectare
to reach 1.8 tons per hectare.  The potential for improvement in the yield of
animal products has also been shown tc be considerable. Farmers introducing
improved milk herds have shown a milk yield per animal unit of some 2,500
liters depending on the production system; beef as a by-product to dairying



was doubled from 110 to 220 kg per animal unit; and sheep meat production from
an average of 20 to 39 kg per animal unit. Animal numbers per hectare could
increase slightly on the small farms but double on the large farms.
3.03     To achieve these increases requires:  (i) rationalizing the use of
fallow and combining this practice with other methods of soil fertility
restoration; (ii) producing fodder and forage as a main source of animal feed,
relegating crops by-products to a lesser role and allowing some to be returned
to the soil as organic matter, and reducing the dependence on feedstuffs from
outside the farm; (iii) using the forage components of the rotation to improve
the soil fertility; (iv) capitalizing on the carryover effects of fertilizer
application from one phase of the rotation to the next; and (v) further
reducing the costs of crop disease and weed management by integrating it with
the rotation system.
3.04     Fallow can be reduced to allow for intensification of fodder and
forage production, but not eliminated because some fallow is needed to ensure
some stability in cereal yields, given the variability of rainfall in the
Project area. In the higher rainfall areas, fodder production increases can be
obtained by the intensive production of cereal-legume mixtures to be fed as
silage or hay. In the lower rainfall areas, this practice can be employed
along with planted pastures for forage based on annual self-regenerating
forage legumes. Appropriate dairy cattle or sheep production systems have
been developed according to location and farm size.  Cropping systems are
described in detail in Annex 2 and animal production systems in Annex 3.
3.05     The principle constraints on the more widespread adoption by farmers
of these improved practices have been:
(a) lack of knowledge on how to apply the techniques because of
inadequate extension services;
(b) lack of means, principally seasonal inputs and machinery, and their
timely availability; and
(c) lack of consistent and attactive market opportunities for milk and
meat.
Extension Services
3.06     The general problems with the extension services in the country were
described above in paragraph 2.08. Even though there are a number of
agricultural technicians performing part-time extension, there are currently
only 15 direct contact, multidisciplinary extension agents, operating from
local extension centers in the Project area providing a coverage of one
extension agent to some 1,000 farmers. This is inadequate even if efficient
arrangements were in place for the management and operation of the extension
service. Given the relatively large size of farms in the Project area, a
ratio of one agent to 250 farmers would be more appropriate. Project area
farmers also currently receive differing and conflicting advice from different
departments of the Ministry of Agriculture (DPV, DPA, DAPMEA) and commodity
agencies. By instituting an adequately staffed, unified extension service,
consisting of multidisciplinary extension agents, supported by extension
managers and subject-matter specialists, the Project would make it possible



- 8 -
to transfer the known technology of cereals/livestock integration to farmers.
The Project would also promote improved adaptive research to ensure that
progress is maintained in disease control, fertilizer strategies, and
integrated weed control programs, and to strengthen the links between research
and extension (para. 4.04).
Infrastructure and Input Supply
3.07     An adequate network of rural roads is essential to transport inputs
(seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, etc.) to the farms, and to send the outputs
(wheat, milk, meat, etc) to market. Inputs must also be available at
appropriate times. While a basic network of roads exists in the Project area,
access is generally restricted to the dry season and in some high potential
areas access remains very poor. While ongoing road improvement programs have
improved the situation, more needs to be done to provide an adequate level of
road access for inputs and outputs. In addition, the inpuit distribution
network is inadequate. At present, there are 16 distribution centers in the
Project area, providing for only about half the projected demand in the Project
area. The lack of centers is partly because fertilizer resale margins have not
been set at high enough levels to encourage investment in distribution centers.
Recently, however, the Government took action to restore incentives for
fertilizer distribution. Fertilizer quantities delivered and projections of
the underlying demand in the Project area were established by SWEDFARM in the
National Master Plan for Agricultural Input Supply. In this study, it is
projected that between now and 1990, fertilizer consumption in the four Project
provinces could increase from around 42,000 to 90,000 tons per year, and
improved crop seed demand from approximately 7,300 to 11,500 tons per year.
Market Opportunities for Milk and Beef
3.08     The most secure market for Project area producers of beef and milk is
Tunis, but this involves high transportation costs and few farmers are
prepared to travel that far to market their produce. Little milk or beef is
thus produced in the Project area beyond that required for home consumption.
With no organized livestock markets, only one milk plant of 10,000 liters/day
at Jendouba and no milk collection facilities outside the area of the ongoing
Northwest Rural Development Project, compared to 25 purchase centers for grain
(80% owned by the Office des C6r6ales) the marketing infrastructure in the
Project area reflects the traditional grain producing orientation of the
farmers. With a view, however, to improving marketing conditions for milk and
beef in the Project area prior to the start-up of the proposed Project, the
Government has already promoted two initiatives. First, to improve milk
marketing, it has licensed the construction by private companies with
Government participation of two new dairy plants in the Project area: one
of 80,000 liters/day capacity at Bou Salem, the other of 50,000 liters/day
capacity at Medjez El Bab. This will greatly facilitate milk marketing in
the Project area. The plants are expected to be operational by late 1987 when
a consumer price premium for local processed fresh milk is also expected to be
instituted. This will provide an additional stimulus to fresh milk production
in the Project area. Second, to improve meat marketing, the parastatal
company El Louhoum has started construction of meat freezing facilities of
300-ton capacity and refrigeration facilities of 75-ton capacity in Tunisia's
second largest city, Sfax. This will greatly increase demand for meat from
the Project area. In addition to these measures which have already been taken,
the Project would provide an additional milk collection center at El Kef.



-9-
C. Other Projects in the Area
3.09     The following projects are currently ongoing in the Project area:
(a) The USAID-financed APHANE Project, recently extended to March 1986,
which is an assisted-credit project for small- and medium-size
farmers covering parts of the provinces of Beja and Siliana, as well
as three provinces outside the project area. This project provides
some specialized extension advice for its clients, but has involved
relatively few farmers in the project area.
(b) A Tunisian-Belgian Project which provides technical assistance and
equipment to demonstrate control of cereal crop weeds with herbicides.
An important Tunisian-Belgian cooperation activity since 1969 has
been the pilot farm at Fretissa (para. 3.02) which has provided some
of the essential technical information for the design of the proposed'
Project. Much of the Project technology has been pioneered at
Fretissa for on-farm use and the consistent results have set the
standards of yields that can be achieved.
Cc)  The Bank-financed Third and Fifth Highway Projects (para. 2.12) which
are concerned with rural road construction under the management of
the DGPC and the construction of some extension infrastructure in the
area. The 650 km of roads in the Project area completed or planned
under these projects have provided for urgently needed improvements.
The facilities developed in the Project area would be fully
incorporated into the proposed Project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. kationale
4.01     The Project area has good rainfall and soils, capable and responsive
farmers, but lacks support in agricultural extension and research, and has
shortages of certain infrastructure such as rural roads and marketing
facilities. The Project is designed to relieve these constraints, thereby
enabli,ng farmers to realize more fully the productive potential of their land.
B. Obiectives
4.02     The main objective of the Project is to assist Tunisia to increase
production of cereals (mainly wheat) and livestock products (chiefly milk and.
mutton/lamb) on private farms and UCPs in the plains of the four northwestern
provinces of Beja, Jendouba, El Kef, and Siliana. Since Tunisia imports large
quantities of wheat, feedgrains, milk and meat, additional Project production
would assist the balance of payments. Farm income would also increase. These
objectives would be achieved by strengthening extension and research in the
area and improving supportive infrastructure. The Project would be managed by
a Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture which would
coordinate the Project actions.



- 10 -
C. Detailed Description
4.03     Extension (US$4.0 million).  The Project would provide for an increase
in the ratio of MOA direct contact extension agents located in local extension
centers from the current ratio of one agent for every 1,000 farmers to one
agent for 250 farmers, the introduction of supporting staff and a management
system along lines of the T&V system. This would require the reassignment or
recruitment of 51 new extension agents in addition to the 15 agents already in
the Project area, and 4 regional deputies for extension to operate in the
33 priority areas covering 200,000 ha selected on the basis of land resource
characteristics. On the basis of two agents attached to each extension center
(CTV), the-Project would provide 18 new and expand 15 existing CTVs. Standard
plans for a new CTV consist of offices, a conference room and two staff houses
totaling 200 mz, a storage facility of 50 m2, land and fencing. Additions
to existing CTVs would consist of staff housing and fencing. Equipment
consisting of one minitractor with implements'and one set of audio-visual
material per new and existing CTV, as well as vehicles consisting of one light
car for each new extension agent at both new and existing CTVs, two light cars
for each of the CRDAs and four minibuses for the transport of farmers, would
also be provided. Similar equipment is already in place in other areas and is
being used efficiently. The minibuses in particular are needed to transport
farmers over the often long distances which separate the farms in the sparsely
populated Project area. Incremental vehicle and machinery operating expenses
and building maintenance costs are also included. In addition to normal
extension activities oriented towards smaller farmers, the Project would
establish a farm management center at Beja to advise large (over 100 ha)
farmers who would fall outside the focus of normal extension activities,
including at least one technical adviser to be financed by Belgian aid.
Approximately, 800 out of the expected 4,500 Project participants would fall
into the category. Details of the proposed operation of the extension
services are given in para. 6.05 below.
Deployment of Extension Staff
Total            Project Year
Number
Categorv           Required         1    2    3    4
CRDA Deputies
for Extension            4 ''
Extension Agents
at CTV Level            66gb        15   17   15    4
/a To be recruited prior to loan effectiveness.
lb Of which 15 already in place in 15 existing CTVs.
4.04     Research (US$0.9 million).  To support the revitalized extension
service and improve its linkage with research, the Project would complete the
network of research facilities in the Project area. These consist mainly of
INRAT's animal production research station at El Afareg in Beja province and
INRAT's field crop research stations at El Kef and Beja. The Project would
rehabilitate the El Afareg station by providing a new 600 m2 administration-
laboratory building, two small houses for technicians, one new cattle stable



- 11 -
for fattening and milk production in experimental animals, rehabilitation of a
sheep stable for experimental sheep, construction of a milking shed for
experimental sheep, development of 30 ha of land for precision experiments,
small-scale farm equipment to conduct crop and pasture experiments, laboratory
equipment for the preparation of materials for experiments and samples from
experiments, and two sets of farm equipment for the general farm operations
which supply animal feed requirements. Minor amounts of essential laboratory
equipment to complete facilities for plant disease work at INRAT's El Kef and
Beia stations would also be provided, as would funds to study the function,
location and physical requirements for future research/extension support
stations.
4.05     Livestock Services (US$2.5 million).  In support of the objective of
increasing production of milk, sheep meat and wool, the Project would provide:
(a) construction and equipment of three animal health centers of 280 mz
each at Dahmani, Testour and Teboursouk for the DPA;
(b) vehicles and equipment for ten dairy cattle artificial insemination
posts (3 each in the provinces of Jendouba and Siliana, two each in
Beja and El Kef) also for the DPA;
(c) construction of one milk collection center of 90 mz at El Kef,
including a cooling vat of 2,000 liters, cans, nine can-carrying
trucks, and four tank trucks for the OEP; and
(d) construction of three animal purchase centers where the OEP would buy
store (lean) animals for sale to Project farmers for fattening. Each
center would include fencing, housing, offices and storage, as well
as the purchase of six trucks for animal transport and three pick-ups.
Incremental staff, building maintenance and vehicle operating costs would also
be provided for the animal health, artificial insemination and buying center
components.
4.06     Farm Machinery Testing (US$0.6 million).  To ensure that Project
farmers and UCPs can also be advised through the Department of Training,
Research and Extension (DERV) of the most appropriate farm machinery to
maximize productivity, the Project would set up the nucleus of a farm machinery
testing facility under the control of DGR at the advanced school of rural
engineering at Medjez El Bab. The Project would provide four man-months of
short term and 12 man-months of long-term consultants services to help choose
the type and source of farm implements to be tested and devise the methodology
for on-farm comparative testing. The consultants would also supervise the
implementation of the testing program. The Project would also provide for the
purchase of the implements to be tested and small equipment required for the
testing program.
4.07     Rural Roads (US$6.3 million).  To ensure adequate access to input
supply centers and output markets, the Project would provide for the following
road improvements under the supervision of the DGPC:
(a) upgrading to all weather standard (N2 or N3) of approximately 110 km
of priority rural roads not covered by ongoing highways projects, and



- 12 -
(b) repairs, culverts and fords for about another 20 km.
In keeping with practice under the Third and Fifth Highway Projects, rural
roads in the two northern provinces of Beja and Jendouba (58 km) would be
upgraded to the higher N3 standard, due to the more difficult rainfall and
soil conditions in these two provinces. The roads in El Kef and Siliana
(52 km) where conditions are less demanding would be upgraded to the lower N2
standard. Details of the road segments involved are given in Table 4.
4.08     Training, Technical Assistance and Studies (US$2.1 million).  In
addition to routine training in technical messages, training of extension
agents would take two forms. The first would be preparatory training in
communications including screening for aptitude for extension. The second
would be periodic technical refresher courses. Arrangements for these are
established in Tunisia. Provision is also made for overseas training for
extension dupervisors and subject-matter specialists. The farm management
center (para. 4.03) represents a new approach in Tunisia to dealing with the
special extension needs of large farmers for whom the normal extension services
cannot cater. Technical assistance will be provided for its establishment and
to develop suitable operating procedures. Belgian aid has agreed to provide
at least one specialist for this purpose. The services of an extension
management consultant would be provided to help make the reorganized extension
service operational.
4.09     To ensure adequate research station development under the Project, a
research station development expert from one of the international agricultural
research centers would be financed using Project funds, and a Tunisian
technician would undergo training at CIMMYT's research station development and
management training course. Provision is also made under the Project for a
study of the need in Tunisia for support stations which would be the stage
beyond the regional research stations and where technologies are developed at
the farm level and research and extension linkages developed. Provision is
made for a research study of the treatment of straw to improve its value as
animal feed. A study would also be provided to assist with the development of
service cooperatives in the Project area, including pilot activities on two
such cooperatives. Funds would also be provided to the DPSAE for the implemen-
tation of a monitoring and evaluation system for the agricultural sector. In
total, about 110 staff-months of consultant services would be provided.
4.10     Credit Investments (US$21.4 million).  To adopt the improved
technology to be extended under the Project, private farmers and UCPs would
need to make certain incremental medium- and long-term investments (US$15.4
million). Given the expected level of on-farm investment and farmer and UCP
adoption, these are expected to consist in the first four years of construction
of dairies for approximately 925 cows, improvement of dairies for about 3,100
cows, construction of sheep shelters for approximately 10,700 sheep, lamb
fattening corrals for about 10,800 lambs, steer fattening corrals for
approximately 6,200 steers, about 260 tractors and related implements,
establishment of approximately 5,000 ha of pastures, 1,700 ewes, 300 rams,
1,200 purebred cows and 750 crossbred cows. Increased quantities of seasonal
inputs (US$4.6 million) including seeds, fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides,
machinery services for crops and veterinary and reproductive services for
animals would also be required. The Project would also provide fifteen input
resale centers on credit, seven for the OC, five for the COCEBLE and three for
the CCGC (US$1.4 million).



- 13 -
D. Status of Engineering
4.11     Standard architectural plans and specifications are available for most
Project buildings. For the rural roads component, design standards follow
those established for the Bank-financed highway projects (Loans 1601-TUN and
2108-TUN). The studies division of the Ministry of Public Works has hired
consultants to prepare, by June 30, 1985, substantially completed detailed
engineering including any necessary topographic surveys, hydrological studies,
and draft tender documents for the 29 km of roads included in the first year's
program. Terms of reference have also been prepared for most Project-financed
consultants.
V. PROJECT COSCIS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01     Over the four-year implementation period (1986-89), the total cost of
the Project is estimated to be US$37.9 million (D 27.7 million). The foreign
exchange component is US$16.8 million (D 12.3 million) or 44% of the total.
Of the total Project cost, US$29.1 million (D 21.2 million) or 77% represent
investment costs, while US$8.8 million (D 6.5 million) or 23% consist of
incremental recurrent costs (including farm inputs). Taxes and duties totaling
US$9.7 million (D 7.1 million) or 26% of total Project costs are also included.
The Project cost is summarized in the following table and shown by year in
Table 1 and-by summary account in Table 2:
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMIARY
(D Million)    (USS Million)           Z Total
------------------- Z Foreisr, Base
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Eychange  Costs
EYTENSICt                    1.2   0.9  2.1  1.7   1.2  2.B        41    11
RESEARCH                     0.3   0.2  0.5  0.3   0.3  0,7        46      2
LIVESTOCK SERMJICES          0.8   0.5  1.3  1.1   0.7  1.B        40      7
FARM ACHINERY TESTING        0.1   0.2  0.3  0.2   0.2  0.4        59      2
RURAL ROADS                  1.7   1.4  3.2  2.4   1.9  4.3        45    16
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT  0.1   0.0  0.1  0.2   0.0  0.2        23      1
TRAINING, TECH.ASST.Y STUIDIES  0.3   0.9  1.3  0.5   1.3  1.7     73      6
ON-FARM INVESTMENTS          4.0   3.8  7.8  5.5   5,2 10.7        48    40
SEASONAL INPUTS              1.5   0.8  2.3  2.1   1.1  3.1        34    12
INPUT RESALE CENTERS         0.5   0.2  0.7  0.7   0.3  1.0        31      4
Total BASELINE COSTS            10.7   8.9 19.6  14.6  12.3 26.9      46    100
Phfsical Continsencies        1.1   0.9  2.0  1.5   1.3  2.7        46     10
Price Continmencies           3.7   2.4  6.1  5.0   3.3  8.3        40    31
Total PROJECT COSTS             15.4  12.3 27.7  21.1  16.8 37.?      44    141



- 14 -
5.02     The above cost estimates are based on January 1984 prices updated to
January 1985 levels, and are derived from recent quotations and appraisal
estimates. Physical contingencies have been estimated at the rate of 15% for
civil works and 10% for vehicles, machinery, equipment and furniture, and
incremental recurrent costs (except salaries and wages and consultants
services). Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of the
following annual percentage rates, applied to local and foreign costs
including physical contingencies:
1986    1987    1988    1989
Local Costs              10.0    10.0    10.0       9.0
Foreign Costs             9.0      9.0     9.0      7.5
B. Financing Plan
5.03     A Bank loan of US$15.0 million to the Government of Tunisia is
proposed to finance 100% of the foreign exchange component of the Project,
excluding seasonal inputs (US$1.6 million) and technical assistance to be
financed on grant terms by Belgium (US$0.2 million). The balance of funds
required would be financed by the Government, BNT and Project beneficiaries.
The Bank loan would thus finance 53% of the total Project cost net of taxes.
Project costs would be shared in the following amounts and proportions:
L of Net
Local   Foreign   Total   Project Costs
(US$ million equivalent) - -----
World Bank                            -       15.0     15.0          53
Belgium                               -       0.2       0.2           1
BNT                                  2.4       1.6      4.0          14
Beneficiaries                        1.8       -        1.8           6
Government                           7.2       _        7.2          26
Net Project Costs                11.4     16.8      28.2         100
Taxes and Duties                  9.7       -        9.7
Total Project Costs              21.1     16.8      37.9
5.04     The proposed Bank loan would be for 17 years including 4 years
grace. It would be utilized by the Ministry of Agriculture (for extension,
research, farm machinery testing, PIU and training, technical assistance and
studies), by the Ministry of Equipment (for rural roads), and passed on as a
grant to the OEP (for livestock services) and to the BNT under a subsidiary
loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank to be signed no later than
November 30, 1985. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
it would cause BNT to provide funding for the credit component of the Project
as required.



- 15 -
C. Procurement
5.05     Procurement arrangements are suimmarized in the following table:
Procurement Method          Total Cost
Project Element                    ICB   LCB   Other   NA
(US$ million equivalent) -_ -_-
Civil Works                                    9.2   0.8                 10.0
(4.0) (0.3)                (4.3)
Goods                                   3.2    1.0   0.2                  4.4
(1.4)  (0.5) (0.1)                (2.0)
Credit                                                      21.4         21.4
(8.0)        (8.0)
Consultants' Services                                1.8    0.3           2.1
(0.7)   (-)         (0.7)
Total                         3.2   10.2   2.8   21.7          37.9
(1.4)  (4.5) (1.1)  (8.0)        (15.0)
Note:  Figures in paren,theses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
5.06     Works.  Project buildings (US$3.7 million), including both new
construction and rehabilitation of CTVs, research facilities, and livestock
service facilities for OEP, would be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding (LCB). The small and scattered nature of the works would make them of
no interest to foreign contractors.  No individual contract for these works is
expected to have a value of more than US$250,000. Contracts for rural roads
(US$6.3 million) would also be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures, as
experience with similar works under the two Rural Roads Projects (Loans
1601-TUN and 2108--TUN) indicates that such works would fail to attract bids
from foreign firms not already established in the country. Roads would be
constructed under unit price contracts in four lots. Enough construction
firms, both local and foreign, are established in Tunisia to assure competitive
prices under LCB. Civil works such as buildings which fail to attract bids
from contractors would be constructed under force account. Civil works and
goods under the credit component would be procured through regular commercial
or other local channels.
5.07     Goods.  Project vehicles, machinery, equipment and furniture
(US$4.4 million), including vehicles, tractors, implements, and office
furniture for the extension service; research equipment; vehicles, machinery
and equipment for the livestock services component and tractors for the farm
machinery testing component, would be grouped wherever possible into packages
and procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with



- 16 -
Bank guidelines. When bulking is not feasible, vehicles, machinery, equipment
and furniture contracts not exceeding the equivalent of US$150,000 each, and
totaling in the aggregate no more than US$1.0 million, may be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation
of 15% or the prevailing import duty, whichever is less. Specialized research
equipment totaling in the aggregate no more than US$150,000 would be procured
on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified suppliers.
5.08     Bank-financed consultants for studies and technical assistance
(US$1.8 million), with qualifications and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Bank, would be appointed following Bank guidelines on the
use of consultants published in August 1981.
5.09     Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$300,000 or more and bidding packages for goods costing
the equivalent of US$150,000 or more would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about 75% of
the total estimated value of contracts for both goods and works. The balance
of contracts would be subject to random post-review by the Bank after contract
award. The first bidding document of each agency would also be reviewed prior
to the start of the bidding. Assurances that the above procedures would be
followed were obtained at negotiations.
D. Disbursement
5.10     The disbursement profiles for Bankwide area development projects,
EMENA agricultural projects, Bankwide agricultural projects and all Tunisia
projects show that full disbursement has taken an average of eight years. In
the case of the present project, full disbursement is expected to take place
over six years (Table 3). The reasons for deviating from the disbursement
profiles are: (a) the existence of standard architectural plans and designs
for most major disbursement items (buildings and roads); and Cb) the fact that
a specific attempt has been made to design the Project in such a way that
disbursement delays will be minimized, for example, by scheduling major
investments early in the Project period, and using the time between
negotiations and project start-up for recruitment and procurement.
5.11     Disbursements would be made after receipt of full documentation,
except in the case of civil works by force account and goods and services
provided under contracts valued at under US$100,000 for which disbursements
would be made against certified statements of expenditure (SOE). The SOE
would be certified by the Project implementing agency incurring the expenditure
and by the Central Commissioner for Agricultural Development in his capacity
as Project Manager. Supporting documentation would be retained by the
implementing agency and the PIU and made available for inspection during Bank
supervision missions and by external auditors. Except in the case of direct
payments, no reimbursement application for less than US$20,000 would be
accepted. Assurances to these effects were obtained at negotiations.
Disbursement categories, amounts allocated and the share of expenditures to be
financed would be as follows:



- 17 -
Amount of the        X of Expenditures
Category                 Loan Allocated         to Be Financed
(usS Million)
(1) Civil Works                               3.6             100l   of foreign and
45Z of local
(2) Goods                                     1.7             1002 of foreign and
50Z of local
(3) Medium- and Long-Term Credit             8.0              70% of BNT
disbursements for
subloans
(4) Consultants' Services                     0.5             1001 of foreign and
80% of local
(5) Initial Deposit in Special Account        0.3
(6) Unallocated                              0.9
Total                              15.0
5.12     To ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the Project, the
Bank would deposit after loan effectiveness an initial sum of US$300,000 to
set up a revolving fund to finance eligible expenditures corresponding to the
Bank's share of the first three months' Project needs. The deposit could
later be increased by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank to meet
Project needs. The revolving fund would be used to pay eligible expenditures
under the Project for which Procedure I would be applied: civil works; goods;
and consultants' services. No local salaries would be paid through the
revolving fund.
5.13     Bank funds would be deposited in US dollars in a special account at
the Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT), and would be channeled to the Project as
needed through BNT. For this purpose, a project account would be opened by
the CCDA at BNT in Tunis, and each CRDA would have a similar project
subaccount at the local BNT branch in Beja, Jendouba, El Kef, and Siliana.
Government counterpart funds would be secured through appropriate budget
allocations. The Project's annual budget and financial plans, approved by the
Project Coordinating Committee (para. 6.02) and by the Ministries of Planning
and Finance would be provided to the Bank for information no later than August
31 of each year.
5.14     The Bank would replenish the revolving fund as requested upon receipt
of satisfactory evidence that expenditures paid were eligible for financing
out of the fund. A replenishment request would normally be sent to the Bank
when 50Z of the revolving fund has been disbursed, i.e., about every two to
three months. Should any disbursement made from the special account not be



- 18 -
acceptable to the Bank, Government would be required to deposit the
corresponding ineligible amount into the special account, or if the Bank so
requests, refund to the Bank an amount equal to the amount not eligible.
5.15     No further deposits into the special account would be made by the
Bank when the total unwithdrawn amount of the part of the loan that is expected
to be disbursed at loan closure would be equal to US$0.6 million. If it is
determined, at any date, that any amount outstanding in the special account
is not required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Government, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, would refund to the Bank such
amount outstanding in the special account. Assurances on the above points
were obtained at negotiations.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization
6.01     The proposed Project would be implemented through existing
institutions, strengthened as necessary to ensure effective project
implementation. No new institutions would be created, and changes within
existing units would be minimal, the aim being to strengthen rather than
bypass existing line agencies.
6.02     Overall responsibility for implementing the Project would lie with
the Ministry of Agriculture (Chart 1), through the Central Commission for
Agricultural Development (CCDA) located at the Ministry's headquarters in
Tunis. The head of the Commission, the Central Cormnissionner for Agricultural
Development, would be the titular Project Manager. However, day-to-day
management would be handled by a Deputy Project Manager leading a Project
Implementation Unit within the CCDA comprising a Chief Accountant, an
Agricultural Economist, a Secretary, and a Driver. The Central Commissionner
would chair a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) to be created by October 31,
1985 for the purpose of periodic liaison with other entities involved in
Project execution, including under the Ministry of Agriculture, the Department
of Crop Production (DPV), the Department of Animal Production (DPA), the
Department of Assistance to Small and Medium Size Farmers (DAPMEA), the
Department of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analyses (DPSEA), the National
Institute of Agricultural Research (INRAT), the Office of Cereals (OC), and
the National Livestock and Range Agency (OEP). Outside the Ministry of
Agriculture, the CCDA would coordinate as necesenrf with the service
cooperatives COCEBLE and CCGC, the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT), the
National Bank for Agricultural Development (BNDA), the Department of Roads
CDGPC) of the Ministry of Public Works (MOE), the Ministry of Planning (MOP),
and the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
6.03     Field management of the Project would be handled by the regional
branches of the CCDA, known as Regional Commissions for Agricultural
Development (CRDA), located in each of the four Project provinces (Beja,
Jendouba, El Kef, and Siliana). By October 31, 1985, the head of each of
these units, the Regional Commissioner for Agricultural Development (CRDA),
would be appointed subproject manager in his province. Thereafter, he would
be responsible for implementing the various Project components in his province



- 19 -
in accordance with a yearly action program agreed with the Project Manager.
The CRDAs in each of the four Project provinces would also receive the
incremental staff necessary to manage the Project at the provincial level.
New staff in each province would consist of: a Deputy for extension and for
Project management and execution and an Accountant for the DAPMEA unit.
The Deputy would provide day-to-day management support to the Commissionner
for the implementation of extension reforms.  The Regional Commissioner would
be responsible for liaising locally with other entities involved in Project
execution such as the local research stations, local input supply and output
marketing facilities of the OC, COCEBLE and CCGC and DEP, local branches of
the BNT and local offices of the DGPC. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that extension staff would be deployed according to an acceptable
plan (para. 4.03 and Annex). Progress in meeting the plan would be reviewed
annually by the Government and the Bank.
B. Implementation
6.04     The CRDA would be responsible for the Project extension component;
INRAT for the researci facilities; the OEP for the livestock input supply and
output marketing facilities; and the DGPC for upgrading and maintaining the
rural roads. Individual farmers and UCPs would implement the on-farm
components of the Project with the aid of seasonal and medium/long term credit
from BNT. OC, COCEBLE, and CCGC would implenment the input supply component,
also with the aid of credit from BNT.
6.05     Extension.  Implementation of the extension component would be the
responsibility of the individual Commissioners in each province whose plans
and actions would be coordinated by the Central Commissioner (Project Manager).
To assist the regional Commissioners to manage the extension service, the
structure of each CRDA would be modified to include a new post of Deputy. He
would coordinate the extension system from subject-matter specialists to field
extension agents and set up a management system for agricultural extension
within the CRDA modelled on the T&V system. Whereas at present the policy is
to build one rural extension center (CTV) for each extension agent, under the
Project for reasons of economy, two extension agents would share the facilities
of a CTV. For farmer contact only one agent would deal with an individual
group of farmers in place of the current system under which some farmers are
contacted by several crop specific agents. This mult;purpose agent would be
responsible for conveying all extension messages to groips of about 250
farmers.   Subject-matter specialists from the DPV, DPA, DAPMEA, and OEP,
located at the CRDA level would develop extension messages, help train
extension agents and answer specialized questions. Extension agents would
receive regular training in extension messages, and make regular visits to
farmers. The general organization principles to be adopted under the Project
are given in more details in the attached Annex. Agreement was obtained
during negotiations that these principles would be adopted under the Project.
6.06     Research.  Implementation of the research component would be the
responsibility of INRAT which generally has sufficient staff to carry out the
actions proposed under the Project. INRAT employs the DGR and the buildings
section of the DAAF for all of the construction work. The candidate for
training in research center development (para. 4.09) would be sent for training
in Year 2 and his return would coincide with the consultancy for research
station development, both of which would preceed the development of the 30 ha



- 20 -
on the El Afareg station. Phasing of the implementation would also coincide
with the training of the additional scientists to be assigned who would be
required to work one year at the central research station before being
assigned. Their assignment to El Afareg would follow immediately the
completion of the basic infrastrleture.
6.07     Livestock Services.  The four activities under this component would
be implemented as follows:
(a) Animal Health Centers: The three animal health centers to be
constructed under the Project would be staffed and managed by the
DPA. Construction would conform to standard plans that are already
used by DPA for centers elsewhere in the country. Construction of
the centers from bidding, letting the contracts to supervision would
be the responsibility of the PIU. The bidding process would start
immediately after loan signaing. Before starting this process, the
PIU would agree with DPA on the location and suitability of the plans
and get a formal commitment that the facilities would be staffed
immediately upon their completion.
(b) Artificial Insemination Posts: Ten posts already exist in the
Project area and no further expansion is required. The posts would
be managed by DPA who would be required to transfer trained
inseminators in Years 2, 3, and 4 (4, 4, 2). The inseminators
equipment which is specialized and estimated to cost approximately
D 1,000 for each technician would be purchased locally by DPA.
(c) Milk Collection: OEP would be responsible for this subcomponent,
including procurement. Plans are available as OEP has had a number
of other collection plants constructed. The specialized equipment
has also been purchased previously. For the milk collection center
to be constructed under the Project, consistent with the Government's
policy of gradual withdrawal from milk collection, the Government has
agreed that at the latest five years from the start of operations,
OEP would sign and maintain a leasing agreement satisfactory to the
Bank with a private party or service cooperative for the management
of the center, OEP having assisted the tenant during the year prior
to the signature of the agreement.
(d) Animal Buying Centers: All three centers would be the responsibility
of GEP to plan, procure, and manage. Plans would be prepared during
1985. Construction of the first would start in the first year of the
Project. The experience of this center would therefore be available
before commencing the second and third.
6.08     Farm Machinery Testing.  Selecting the technical assistant who would
advise on machines to be tested and testing procedures, importation of
machinery and the conduct of tests would be the responsibility of the farm
machinery unit in the DC-R. Actions for the purchase of silage-making
equipment for demonstration would be the responsibility of each CRDA.
Likewise, directing farmers or groups of farmers to appropriate tractors and
machinery to purchase or rent would be the responsibility of the CRDAs through
the extension services.



- 21 -
6.09     Rural Roads.  Road upgrading and maintenance would be the
responsibility of the DGPC, the same unit which is responsible for rural roads
under the Third and Fifth Highway Projects. Before final approval, the road
segments scheduled for upgrading (Table 4) would follow basically the same
procedures and meet the same criteria as those applied under the Fifth Highway
Project. By April 30 of each year (June 30 in 1985), the DGPC would submit to
the Bank for review and comment a plan for the rural road upgrading to be
carried out during the following calendar year. Each rural road included in
the plan would be supported by a draft feasibility study employing methodology
and selection criteria including an economic rate of return satisfactory to
the Bank. After reviewing the Bank's comments, the DGPC would finalize the
plan including the feasibility studies and submit it to the Bank for its
approval by at latest September 30 of the year in which the draft plan had
been submitted. Government would also maintain the entire network of all
weather roads in the Project area. Assurances on these points were obtained
at negotiations.  Supervision of construction would be undertaken by the
DGPC's regional offices which are experienced in this type of work. The
aintenance requirements of the network of all weather roads in the Project
area would be absorbed into the DGPC's general maintenance programs, the
capacity of which has been built up under the Bank-financed rural roads
projects (para. 3.10).
6.10     Project Implemeutation Unit.  Rapid assignment of key staff, both in
the CCDA and CRDAs, is essential for successful Project implementation.
Establishment of the PIU in the CCDA, headed by a Deputy Project Manager and
including a Chief Accountant, and Agricultural Economist, and assignment of
the Deputy and Accountant for each of the CRDAs would therefore be conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan. Assurances to these effects were
obtained at negotiations. These positions would be filled by transferring
competent technical staff from within the Ministry of Agriculture and by
hiring qualified accountants.
6.11     Training, Technical Assistance and Studies.  The CCDA would be
responsible for implementing this component including organizing training
abroad, recruiting technical assistance and managing the studies financed
under the Project.
6.12     Input Supply. The OC would be responsible for developing plans and
specifications for all 15 input resale centers included in the Project but
would only be responsible for the construction of seven. The PIU in the CCDA
would assist the cooperatives (COCEBLE and CCGC) to develop subloan
applications and develop a timetable for construction that would allow the
first two of their eight outlets to begin functioning by Year 2 of the Project.
C. Credit
6.13     Credit to farmers would be provided by BNT through its existing
network of branches in the Project area which is adequate to cover the needs of
the Project. The Accountant to be recruited for each CRDA would assist with
the implementation of the credit component in his province. OC, COCEBLE, CCGC
would borrow from BNT to finance the construction of input resale centers. In
order to ensure that the terms and conditions of onlending of Project funds by
BNT are appropriate, the Government agreed during negotiations to adopt before
June 30, 1985 an action plan satisfactory to the Bank aimed at inter alia
improving interest rate and cost recovery policies. Thereafter the Government



- 22 -
would implement the action plan according to the timetable contained therein.
The adoption of such a plan and the signature of a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to the Bank would be conditions of disbursement for the credit
funds in the Bank loan. Subloans would be made by BNT on terms and conditions
and according to eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Bank, to be defined
in the context of the action plan.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.14     The Agricultural Economist to be aLipointed in the PIU would be
responsible for monitoring Project implementation including both physical
execution and achievement of production and policy objectives, according to
the key indicators presented in Annex 10. An assurance to this effect was
obtained at negotiations. Data on input use, cropped areas, production and
yields are already collected by the CRDA. The PIU would also prepare the
Project Completion Report, evaluating the results of the Project, within six
months of the closing date, and an assurance to this effect was obtained at
negotiations.
E. Accounts, Audits and Reporting
6.15     Accounts and Audits.  CCDA, which would have primary responsibility
for the Project, would establish and maintain separate project-related
accounts in Tunis, and at its regional branches (CRDA) in Beja, Jendouba,
El Kef, and Siliana. The CCDA in Tunis would be responsible for consolidation
of all accounts from the start of Project implementation. These accounts would
be maintained in accordance with sound and acceptable accounting principles
and practices that would enable CCDA to provide interim and annual financial
statements to reflect the financial situation of the project. As a condition
of effectiveness of the Bank loan, CCDA would complete the design of a Project
accounting system, satisfactory to the Bank, with the assistance of a CPA firm
of international repute. The accounting system would be installed by January
1, 1986 and be fully operational by March 31, 1986. Assurances on the above
were obtained at negotiations.
6.16     Project accounts would be audited annually by indeoendent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. An understanding was reached that the Controller
General of Finance, who has independent status and whose audits are acceptable
to the Bank in scope and content, would do the audit. Audited financial
statements and reports, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the
end of each fiscal year. The auditors' report would include a statement on
the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls and state whether
or not Bank funds have been used for their intended purposes. The report
would also confirm that SOE correctly reflect detailed records kept by CCDA.
Assurances that the above procedures would be followed were obtained at
negotiations.
6.17     Reporting.  CCDA would submit semi-annual reports on the physical and
financial progress of the Project within two months after the end of each
semester, including the performance indicators given in Annex 10, and other
indicators that may be needed during Project supervision. These reports would
include project interim and annual financial statements for the year under
review and accumulated transactions of fiscal years from Project commencement.
These arrangements were agreed upon at negotiations.



- 23 -
VEL PROJECTJTUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Production, Yields and Technological Change
7.01        Based on the farmers and UCP's  expected to adopt the Project promoted
technology (para. 7.07), the following overall changes in cropped areas, animal
units, yields and production may be expected in the Project area by full
development in Year 15:
At Full Development
Existing Situation                    (Year 15)             Incremental
Area   Yields   Production    Area   Yields   Production   Production
(ha)    (t/ha)      (t)         (ha)    (t/ha)        (t)          (t)
crops
Ourum wheat         130.000    1.0    130.000    122.400    1.35         165.200         35.200
Bread wheat          15.700    1.35    2t.200       17.300    1.7         29.400          8.200
Barley              48.500    1.1       53.400      37.200    1.35        50.200         -3.200
Grain legumes       11.700    0.6        7.000      15.700    1.0         15.700          8.700
Olives              23.900    1.3       31.100      23.900    1.3         31.100               -
Hay                 22.600    3.8       85.900      25.200    4.0        100.800         14.900
Silage                   /a     -            -      18.400   1S.0        276.000        276.000
Medicago                 /a     -             -     10.100      -              -               -
Fallow             103.100      -            -      85.300      -              -
Rangeland           44.500      -            -      44.500      -              --
Total          400,000                        400.000
Total animal             116.350.000 FU                  211.550.000 FU             95.200,000 FU
Feed all sources 1k
Animal   Yields    Production   Animal    Yields   Production%
Units    Rer AU       1t)           Units    per AU        (t)          (tL
Livestock Products
Sheep meat          82,000    20 kg        1.600       145.000   33.3 kg       4.800       3.200
Sheep wool                      2.4 kg       200                   2.7 kg        400         200
Dairy cattle milk  22,000   260 1          6.000        38.000   1.330        51.000      45.000
Dairy cattle meat             110 kg       2.000              -     190        7.000       5.000
Lamb meat                 -     -               -       33.000/i    1S           SOO         500
Steer meat                -     -              -        29.000/t   130         3.800       3.800
/a  Although some silage and medicago are produced in limited quantities at
present, they are not separated in available statistics.
/k  Includes feed from all sources on the farm including hay, silage.
medicago. crop straw. weeds, fallow and rangeland.
/s  Individual animals purchased for fattening.



- 24 -
7.02     As the above table indicates, production increases would stem from
changes in cropped areas, animal units and yields on private farms and UCPs.
The yield increases would be obtained from the incremental on-farm investments,
increased input use and better farming practices which are expected to result
from Project investment in extension, research, input supply, livestock
services, rural roads and training. On-farm investments would include
establishment of medicago, purchase of tractors and implements, purchase of
dairy cattle, rams and ewes, and construction of cowsheds, sheepfolds and
sheep fattening corrals. Incremental input use would include increased use of
seeds of high-yielding varieties, fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides,
labor, machinery and veterinary services. Better farming practices would
consist primarily of rotating cereals with nitrogen-fixing leguminous crops and
integrating crop and livestock activities. These production increases would
generate incremental gross foreign exchange savings of about US$'00 million per
year at full development in year 15. After deducting the foreign exchange
c6mponent of operating and replacement costs, incremental net foreign exchange
savings would be about US$35 million a year.
B. Markets and Prices
7.03     Since most incremental production from the Project would consist of
goods for which part of the country's needs are presently met from imports
(milk, wheat, feedgrains, mutton/lamb), additional output of these goods would
find a ready market as import substitutes (a higher quality product in the
case of milk), thereby helping the balance of payments.  A sizeable export
market for mutton/lamb could also be further developed in neighboring Arab
countries. Remaining incremental production, consisting of goods for which
there is strong internal demand (grain legumes and wool), would be sold on the
domestic market. The farmgate prices used in the financial analysis for the
major Project outputs are as follows:
(D per ton)
Durum Wheat                                112
Bread Wheat                               102
Sheep Meat                              1,380
Dairy Cattle Milk                          200
Dairy Cattle Meat                         850
These prices are broadly in line with current world prices and provide
adequate incentives. At negotiations, Government agreed to take all necessary
measures to ensure adequate incentives to agro-industry for milk and meat
marketing, and fertilizer distribution at least cost to the Government budget,
in order to promote increased agricultural production and the wider
availability of fertilizer. In particular, the Government indicated that it
would continue to progressively adopt more realistic consumer prices for milk
and beef, and maintain adequate distribution margins for fertilizer.
C. Farmers' Incentives
7.04     To assess the incentives for private farmers to adopt the new
technology to be extended under the Project, six farm models have been
prepared. Three represent the situation of small (14 ha), medium (30 ha) and



-25-
large (106 ha) farmers in the lower rainfall part of the Project area; three
others represent that of the same size farmers in the higher rainfall zone.
An additional model representing the situation of UCPs has also been
developed. In all cases, the incentives to participate in the Project are
substantial, as the following table shows:
Net
Income
Net      at Full
Income     Deve-    Increase    Increase    Financial
at      lopment    in Net       in Net       Rate of
(No.)  Present  (Year 15)   Income        Income      Return
-  (constant 1984 D/year)               - (%)
Farmers
Lower Rainfall Zone
Small (14 ka)         640      610      1,500       890        +146       over 50
Medium (30 ha)        515    1,410      3,060     1,650        +117       over 50
Large (106 ha)        272    3,340    11,760      8,420        +252          34
1,427
Higher Rainfall Area
Small (14 ha)       1,624      860      2,790     1,930        +224       over 50
Medium (30 ha)        980    1,490      5,810     4,320        +290       over 50
Large (106 ha)        538    4,340    17,670    13,330         +307          39
5,142
Sub-total        4,569
DCPs                       24   48,000   117,220    69,220         +144          37
D. Cost Recovery
7.05     Apart from the normal cost recovery applied to items bought on credit
which account for most Project expenditure, two specific Project activities
would be subject to cost recovery: milk collection and animal buying.
Following the system already established in the adjacent Northwest Rural
Development Project (Loan 1997-TUN), the operating costs of milk collection
under the Project would be recovered through a price margin (D 0.010 per liter
of milk collected plus D 0.0075 in taxes). To attempt to recover part or all
of the investment costs would be impractical since it would imply two cost
recovery systems in the same area. For animal buying, being a new activity
organized primarily for the benefit of the larger farmers, the recovery charge
would cover operating and maintenance costs from the start of operations and,
in addition, investment costs within five years. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that from the commencement of operations: (a) the price margin
for milk collection would be at least sufficient to cover the operation and



- 26 -
maintenance costs of milk collection, and (b) the price margin for the use of
the animal buying centers would be sufficient to recover operating and
maintenance costs and investment costs as well no later than five years
thereafter.
E. Economic Analysis
7.06     Using the latest conversion factors for Tunisia,1' updated
as necessary for major changes in financial/economic price relationships, the
economic rate of return (ERR) of the Project is estimated at 302, with a net
present value (NPV) of D 25.0 million, discounted at 122. In updating the
conversion factors, border prices for traded items were derived on an import
or export parity basis from World Bank projected prices. The economic life of
the Project was assumed to be 25 years, based on the useful life of the Project
buildings. All incremental costs, including the investment and recurrent costs
of the Government agencies involved in the Project, as well as those of the
private farmers, UCPs, OC, COCEBLE and CCGC, were included. Benefits were
measured on the incremental production of crop and livestock products generated
by the Project. Demand for non-family seasonal agricultural labor equivalent
to about 3,900 manyears per year would also be created by full development
(year 15). In the "without project" situation, production was assumed to grow
at 3% per year to reflect general improvements in productivity which would
have taken place anyway. The on-farm investments necessary to sustain such an
increase were also included.
7.07     Since on-farm development accounts for the bulk of the Project costs
(52Z of base costs) and benefits, the approach taken to the economic analysis
was to first aggregate the economic farm models into subproject areas (lower
rainfall, higher rainfall, and UCP), and then aggregate them together with the
incremental economic Project costs to estimate the overall Project ERR and
NPV. For the purpose of this aggregation, different rates of farmer entry
into the Project were assumed depending on whether the farm is in the lower or
higher rainfall subproject area, as follows:
Assumed Farmer Entry into the Project
Project Year             1     2     3      4     5     6      7       Total
-(- } -
Lower Rainfall Zone          1     3     0      6    10     7      5         32
Higher Rainfall Zone         1     5      1     8    10    10      5         40
Based on the readiness of their development plans, UCPs were assumed to enter
the Project at the rate of 6, 6, 1, 5, and 6, resulting in a total of 24. The
probability of a pause in adoption caused by the occurence of drought has been
reflected in the relatively low adoption rates assumed for private farmers and
UCPs in years 3 and 4. No separate component ERRs or NPVs were calculated
(e.g. on extension, roads, etc.) since each component contributes jointly to
overall benefits, and has no separate benefits of its own.
1/ Gordon Hughes, "Shadow Prices and Economic Policy in Tunisia", May 1980.



- 27 -
F. Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
7.08     The major risk facing the Project would be a slower than expected
adoption by farmers and UCPs of the new technology to be extended. By
selecting a target group already in the market economy which stands to gain
significantly from adoption (para. 7.04), by ensuring the availability of
adequate inputs on credit, and by projecting realistic adoption rates, steps
have been taken to minimize this risk, but a lower than expected or a slower
than anticipated adoption rate would lower the ERR and NPV. An unexpected
fall in yields or output prices or increase in costs would also have a
negative effect.
7.09     To test the sensitivity of the Project to the risk of slower adoption,
the number of adopting farmers and UCPs was cut in half. This gave a 151 ERR.
The crossover value of different variables (i.e., the value of the variable at
which the NPV of the economic benefits discounted at 12% becomes zero) was
then calculated to test the sensitivity of the Project to the other risks.
The conclusions that may be drawn from this analysis are that the Project
would still be justified even if:
(a) benefits decreased by 37%; and
(b) costs increased by 58%.
In terms of yield increases, average "iwith project" yields (para. 7.01) for
the major outputs would only have to rise to the following levels to ensure a
positive NPV: durum wheat 1.25 t/ha (instead of 1.35 t/ha); milk 935 1/AU
(instead of 1,330 1IAU); and mutton 28.4 kg/AU (instead of 33.3 kg/AU).
7.10     The Project thus has a strong economic justification which is
resistant to adverse movements in key variables.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  Government would provide all necessary credit finance [para. 5.04;
LA Section 3.01 (a)]. By November 30, 1985, the Government would
conclude a subsidiary loan agreement with BNT, satisfactory to the
Bank, covering the onlending of credit funds to 3NT [para. 5.04; LA
Section 3.02 (b)]. Terms, conditions, and eligibility criteria
satisfactory to the Bank would be defined in the action plan
[para. 6.13; LA Section 3.02 (c)];
(b)  The Project annual budget and financial plans, approved by the
Project Coordinating Committee and by the Ministries of Planning and
Finance, would be provided to the Bank for information no later than
August 31 of each year [para. 5.13; LA Section 3.01 (b)];
(c)  A revolving fund with an initial deposit of US$300,000 would be
set up as described above [paras. 5.12-5.15; LA Section 2.02 (b) and
Schedule 2:;



- 28 -
(d) The Project would'be managed by a PIU operating through the CCDA/CRDA
structure of the Ministry of Agriculture, with the Central
Commissioner for Agricultural Development as Project Manager who
would also chair the Coordinating Committee to be created by October
31, 1985. The Regional Commissioners for Agricultural Development
would also be appointed subproject managers in their respective
provinces by October 31, 1985 (paras. 6.02 and 6.03; LA Section 3.04);
(e) Extension staff would be deployed according to an acceptable plan.
Progress in meeting the plan would be reviewed annually by the
Government and the Bank [para. 6.03 and Annex; LA Section 3.03 and
supplemental letter No. 2];
(f) For the milk collection center at El Kef, at the latest 5 years after
the start of operations, OEP would sign and maintain a leasing
agreement satisfactory to the Bank with a private party or a service
cooperative for the management of the center [para. 6.07 (c);
LA Section 3.06];
(g) Before final approval, all rural road segments scheduled for upgrading
would meet the same criteria as those applied under the ongoing Fifth
Highway Project, including an economic rate of return of at least 10X.
Government would maintain the entire network of all weather roads in
the Project area (para. 6.09; LA Sections 3.07 and 3.08 and
supplemental letter No. 4);
(h) By June 30, 1985, the Government would adopt an action plan on
national credit issues satisfactory to the Bank, including measures
concerning interest rates and the improvement of loan repayments;
thereafter, the Government would implement the action plan according
to the timetable contained therein [para. 6.13; LA Section 3.02 (a)];
*i) The Agricultural Economist to be appointed in the PIU would be
responsible for monitoring Project implementation according to the
indicators given in Ainex 10 [para. 6.14; LA Section 3.13 (c) and
supplemental letter No. 3];
(j) CCDA would submit semi-annual progress reports on the physical and
financial progress of the Project within two months after the end of
each semester [para. 6.17; LA Section 3.13 (c)];
(k) Government would take all necessary measures to ensure adequate
incentives for milk and meat marketing and fertilizer distribution
at least cost to the Government budget (para. 7.03 and
LA Section 3.09);
(1)  From the commencement of operations, the price margin for milk
collection would be at least sufficient to cover operation and
maintenance costs, and the price margin for the use of the store
(lean) animal purchasing centers would be sufficient to recover
operating and maintenance costs from the start of their operations
and, in addition, investment costs no later than five years
thereafter (para. 7.05; LA Section 3.10).



- 29 -
8.02     As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan, Government would:
(a) establish the PIU headed by the Deputy Project Manager, and fill the
positions therein of Chief Accountant and Agricultural Economist, and the
positions of Deputy and Accountant in each of the CRDAs [para. 6.10;
LA Section 6.01 (a) and (b)W; and (b) complete the design of a Project
accounting system satisfactory to the Bank [para. 6.15; LA Section 6.01(c)].
8.03     As a condition of disbursement for the credit funds in the Bank loan,
the Government would adopt an action plan on national credit issues, and the
Government and BNT would conclude a subsidiary loan agreement, both
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.13; Schedule 1, para. 4 (b)].
8.04     The above assurances having been obtained, the proposed Project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million to the Government of Tunisia for a
term of 17 years including 4 years grace. The Project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1990.
2441E



-30 -                                  ANNEX
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNIIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
PLAN OF ACTION FOR THE ORGANIZATION
OF THE PROJECT EXTENSION SERVICES
A. Structure and Organization
1.       The effectiveness and efficiency of extension services in Tunisia
are hampered by lack of organization and discipline, ambiguous lines of
responsibility, excessive amounts of office work; and at field level, by
inadequately trained personnel and lack of direction, support and incentives.
This situation leads to unmotivated, poorly trained field level staff dispersed
over large areas, lacking close supervision, and precise work programs and
responsible for many tasks which often have no direct relation with extension
work. Under the Project, the extension service in the Project area would be
reorganized along the lines of the T&V system in order to remedy current
defects and improve efficiency.
Structure
2.       CRDA Level:  The four CRDAs in the Project area will set up an
extension unit dealing exclhsively with extension activities headed by an
agricultural engineer and some support staff who would be the link between the
CRDA level and field staff. This unit's primary responsibility would be to
(a) closely supervise extension staff; (b) coordinate with other ministry
departments, research and support agencies at the provincial level; and
(c) provide specialized technical support to field staff through a team of
subject-matter specialists (para. 12). The CRDA extension director should
spend four days per week in the field in order to monitor the work of
extension agents. Support services such as input distribution, marketing,
credit, mechanization would be managed separately from the extensionL service
by specific agencies. Appointment of the heads of extension units would be
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
3.       Extension Centers (CTVs):  There would be on average two extension
agents attached to each CTV so that office/storage space would be shared. The
number of extension agents will be defined according to the number of farms to
be visited, their distribution in the area supervised by each agent, types of
farming and cropping patterns. In order to facilitate the extension agents'
task and increase the number of farmers in direct contact with them, farmers
would be organized in groups of about 20/30. Half a day would be spent every
fortnight with each group. One extension agent would would be expected to
visit and be responsible for an average of about 250 farmers. This ratio
would be lower in very intensive production areas, and higher in more
extensive areas. Project extension staff would be deployed according to the
following plan.



-31 -                                    Page 2
Deployment of Extension Staff
Total            Project Year
Number
Category           Required         1    2    3    4
CRDA Deputies
for Extension            4 "         -    -    -    -
Extension Agents
at CTV Level            66          15   17   15    4
/a To be recruited prior to loan effectiveness.
/b Of which 15 already in place in 15 existing CTVs.
Progress in meeting the above staffing levels would be reviewed annually by
the Government and the Bank.
4.       Farm:  The average group of 20/30 farmers, who should all be
neighbors, some natural cultural group or applying the same farming system,
vould meet once every two weeks with the extension agent. The meeting should
be held on each farm in turn; its program would vary according to the needs of
the growing season and the type of farming but would, in principle, include:
-    explanation of recommended cultural practices;
-    practical demonstrations; and
-    delivery of papers required for administrative purposes (credit,
inputs, etc.)
It is recommended that demonstrations be carried out on only part of the farm
to faciritate comparisons between traditional and improved cultural
practices. The meeting must be followed by visits to some of the other group
members' farms.
Organization
5.       In order to improve efficiency and accountability at all levels from
the CRDA down to the farm level, extension staff should:
(a) comply with precise visit programs which would enable
supervisors to locate and closely monitor their staff at any
time and ensure at field level that farmers would get extension
support at regularly scheduled times;



MSEX
32 -                                    AN
Page 3
(b)  be exempt, as much as possible, from all non-extension
activities; and
(c) be kept well informed of their tasks and the way to carry them
out successfully through thorough discussion at monthly
meetings, which would involve research staff.
Visit Program
6.       The strict respect of the visit program (4 days a week) is
particularly important at the farmers' level because this new approach would
generate a system in which farmers could rely on getting timely and
appropriate technical support and administrative help (filling forms for
inputs, credit, etc.). It is therefore important that the fortnight visits
(para. 3) be carried out the same day at .he same hour during the whole
growing season. Farmers would then be sure to have an opportunity to meet the
extension agents to discuss their problems. In addition, in case of
emergency, they would be able to locate the extension agent during a meeting
with another neighboring group, thus reducing the time they have to spend
going to the extension center with no assurance of finding the right person.
The four days a week visit schedule should be established by the e-:tension
agent prior to the growing season and af.er approval by the regional extension
chief, it should remain unchanged throughout the season. During the off-season
period that schedule would be relaxed.
7.       The frequency, content and need for all existing reports should be
reviewed and reduced. Office work should be reduced as much as possible and
reserved for essential report writing and form filling. It would be carried
out over about 1-1/2 days a week. Each extension agent would maintain a daily
diary of activities.
8.       To be efficient extension staff need transportation at both the CRDA
and CTV level, because farmers in the Project area are spread over very large
areas. Experience in Tunisia, even when Projects have supplied additional
vehicles for individual agents, shows that they are irregularly available,
costly to operate often with paid drivers, and not available for private use.
Following successful experience in other countries, it is proposed to overcome
these problems by having agents purchase and operate their own vehicles. The
Project would purchase the vehicles on behalf of the extension agents who would
repay an interest free loan of 100Z of the purchase price of the vehicle using
in part a monthly payment for the kilometers travelled on official business.
9.       Transfer of non-extension activities:  A total transfer of
non-extension activities to other staff may not be feasible in the immediate
future because it could result in increasing official staff and therefore
recurrent costs to an unbearable level for Government, but this should be
aimed at as soon as feasible since extension agents should, in principle,
devote full time to extension activities.



ANNEX
33-                                     Page 4
10.      Monthly Meetings:  Extension agents would meet regularly during the
last week of the month, or more often if required. This frequency would be
determined by the type of crops and the timing of the growing season.
Meetings would be held at the CRDA, under the chairmanship of the CRDA
extension chief and with the participation of research staff required by the
problems to be discussed in order to:
(a)  review field activities of the last month or fortnight;
(b) review problems which arose and how they were solved;
(c) introduce the work program for the comirng month and discuss it;
and
(d)  give short refresher courses taught by subject-matter
specialists prior to the key periods of the growing season.
These meetings could eventually be extended over two days if the
subjects to be discussed require it.
B. Technical SuRport and Coordination with Research
11.      Since a well-organized extension service would be meaningless if it
cannot propose technically, economically and socially reliable messages
relevant to farmers' needs, great attention would be paid to the technical
support that research can provide to extension. Extension staff must be kept
informed of the latest improvements in cultural practices and should be able
to rely on highly qualified technicians to solve critical issues which can
occur during the growing season.
12.      For that purpose extension agents have to be backed up at the CRDA
level by a group of subject-matter specialists whose qualifications would meet
Project needs. This group would include experts drawn from existing staff in
the CRDAs as far at possible or seconded from the research organization to the
Project from at least the four following specialities: training and
extension, livestock, pest control and agronomy. They will devote full time
to their speciality and would carry out the following activities:
-    coordinate with research;
-    prepare booklets on recommended cropping practices for the main
crops;
-    select and prepare extension messages in cooperation with
farmers and research;
-    prepare and carry out refresher courses;
-    provide emergency technical support to cope with casual problems;
-    train staff; and
-    carry out adaptive trials.



ANNEX
34                                      Page 5
Coordination with research
13.      The CRDA will be responsible for organizing formal links between
extension and research at the CRDA level or at Project level so that farming
requirements can be discussed and research can look for appropriate solutions
and get farmers' feedback. To complete and improve that cooperation, action
would be taken at two sensitive levels: subject-matter specialists and field
trials:
(a) In addition to regular monthly meetings frequent contacts between
subject-matter specialists and research staff would keep each other
informed of the specific problems faced by both parties and of their
requirements (i.e., demand for defining the most cost effective - not
necessarily the most productive - quantity of inputs to be -used,
etc.).
(b) At field level also both staff have to be aware of the constraints
and requirements of each agency to improve their understanding;
therefore trial and demonstration plots at the farmer's level should
be established jointly, extension staff would carry out cultural
practices and research staff technical treatments and observations.
Recomimended Cropping' Practices, Prep aration of Extension Messages and
Refresher Courses
14.      It will be the responsibility of subject-matter specialists to
prepare small booklets which would summarize recommended practices for each
Project enterprise. This literature, illustrated by clear and attractive
drawings, would be used by extension agents and distributed to literate
farmers. Subject-matter specialists, assisted by extension and research
staff, would also build in "diagnostic surveys" to study farmers system
constraints and in the light of these findings they would prepare messages for
the extension agents prior to key periods of the growing season, provide, when
necessary, appropriate materials to promote these recommendations and prepare
extension agents to carry out those tasks during monthly meetings (para. 10).
Emergency Support
15.      In addition to information and training activities, subject-matter
specialists must be permanently and directly available to the extension agents
when they have to cope with critical problems. Since these problems often
need immediate action, all foraal and administrative circuits have to be
bypassed, but it would be the extension agent's obligation to inform his
direct supervisors.



ANNEX
~ 35 -                                 Page 6
C. Training
16.      The major part of extension agents training must involve farmwork in
order to train staff to demonstrate efficiently in the field the methods they
are promoting. Following an initial testing program for aptitude and the
basic five-week training course currently practised in Tunisia, initiation
would as far as possible be by working with an experienced extension agent.
Thereafter three types of training would be envisaged (a) refresher courses
over one or two days (para. 14) to Ikeep field agents informed of the latest
cropping developments and prepare them for the on-coming tasks; (b) off-season
general training carried out over two weeks sessions to improve their general
knowledge and their efficiency; and (c) specialized training for agents
appointed to handle special farming situations (UCPs for example).
Consideration should be given'to establishing orientation training during the
initiation period.
17.      The two weeks training sessions are aimed at developing general
knowledge of the extension agents and extending it to skills which are not
generally taught in agricultural schools such as extension methodology,
communication, promotion of farmers' associations, cooperatives, etc. This
training would be carried out either on Project premises or in the agricultural
training center at Sidi Thabet. They would be organized by the extension
directors at the provincial, office or Project level, and matters taught would
be chosen according to the development targets of each project. They would be
supplemented within the framework of the work program and adapted to any
changes or requirements of the work program. Teaching would be carried out
either by agriculture staff or by teachers from agricultural schoois or
university.  These courses should be compulsory for all extension staff and
would be carried out in winter or other such period when field work is at it
lowest level.
D. Other Extension Activities
18.      The extension service tasks described above are not a substitute for
some existing activities which can be usefully integrated as a complement to
the work program with the exception c, demonstration plots managed by Ministry
officials which, in general, have been found useless. These activities usually
include:
-    films, radio and TV messages which will be intensified according
to the farmers' development;
-    information days for farmers;
-    performance awards to farmers; and
-    production contests, plowing contests, etc.



ANNEK
-36-                                  Page 7
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
19.      Evaluation of the impact of extension on agricultural production and
farm income will be one of the main objectives of the monitoring and evaluation
unit. That unit should provide Project or regional extension management with
a constant flow of information aimed at monitoring Project activities and
eventually at modifying the extension approach through adapting extension
activities and messages to the situation. The monitoring and evaluation unit
should therefore focus on determining:
-    the acceptability of technological practices to farmers;
-    the rate of adoption of improved cultural practices and operational
progress;
-    the eventual bottlenecks in improvement and their origin;
-    the recommendations for adapting the extension approach to farmers
requirements; and
-    the effectiveness of extension services and the impact of extension
messages on farmers' farming systems and income.
The monitoring and evaluation unit would also provide assistance in developing
the overall extension strategy in the Project area.
244lEfp3l



Table 1
-37-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
Proiect Components by Year
Totals Including          Totals Including
Contingencies             Contingencies
(D Million)              mUSS Nillion)
1986 1987 198 1989 Total 1986 1987 1988 1999 Total
EXTENSION                          0.6  0.8  0.9  0.7  2.9  0.8  1.0  1.2  1.0  4.0
RESiCH                             0.3  0.3  0.1  0.1  0.6  0.3  0.3  0.1  0.1   0.9
LIVESTOCK SERVICES                 0.5  0.6 0.6  0.1   1.8  0.7  0.8  0.8  0.1   2.5
FARM NACHINERY TESTING             0.1  0.1  0.2  0.0   0.4  0.1  0.1  0.3  0.0   0.6
RURAL ROADS                        1.1  1.5 1.0  1.0   4.6  1.5 2.0  1.3  1.4   6.3
PROJECT IDFLEIENTATIoN UNIT        0.1  0.0  0.0 0.0   0.2  0.1  0.0 0.0 0.0   0.3
TRAINING, TECH.ASST.9 STUDIES      0.5 0.6 0.3 0.1   1.5  0.7  0.8 0.4 0.1   2.1
ON-FARR IMlESTHENTS                1.0 2.7 2.7 4.8  11.2  1.4 3.7  3.7 6.6  15.4
SEASONAL INPUTS                    0.1  0.5  1.0 1.7  3.3  0.1  0.6 1.4 2.4   4.6
INPUT RESALE CENTERS               0.2 0.3  0.4 0.2   1.0  0.2  0.4 0.6 0.3   1.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                    4.4  7.3  7.2 8.8 27.7   6.0 10.0 9.8 12.1  37,9
Februari 13., 1985 15:17



TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
SUHarv Account by Project Cosponent
(D '000)
Physical
FARM                     PROJECT       TRAINING,                           INPUT             Contingencies
LIVESTOCK  MACHINERY               IMPLEMENTATION   ECHSASST,A ON-FARM    SEASONAL  REGALE-
EXTENSION  RESEARCH  SERVICES    TESTING   RURAL ROADS       UNIT         STUDIES    INVESTMENTS   INPUTS   CENTERS   Total      X   A1 ount
 :-:::^:  :-::=gJ=  x:x::-::   8::5$::s  383333    82211 =55 3.83
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS                     891,6    270.1       324,1          -      3P164,2               -            -       1,940.7        -    706.3   7#297,0   13,7  997.5
MACHINERY                       176.2         -          -      2/9,1            -               -            -      4,224.3         -         -   4,679.6   1o.O  46U.0
VEHICLES                        312,3         -      585,1          -            -            16,3            -            -         -        -    913.6   10.0   91,4
EWJIPENT                        19,1     198.7      109.0          -            -            41,7         70,4         186.9        -         -     625.9   10,0   62.6
FURNITURE                        59.5         -          -          -            -               -            -            -         -        -      58.S   10.0    5.8
PASTURE DEVELOPMENT                 -         -          -          -            -               -            -         174,0        -         -     174,0  10,0    17,4
ANIMALS                             -         -          -          -            -               -            -       1306,0        -         -   1306,0   10.0   130.6
Totel IWVESTMENT COSTS           1#457,7     468.9    1.018,2      279.1      3,164,2            59.0         70.4      7,831.7         -    706,3  15,054,5  11.8 1.773.3  i
Il, RECURRENT COSTS
SALARIES AND WAGES             214.4                204,0          -            -            75-5            -                                     493,9    0.0    0.0
CCNSULTANT SERVICES                -         -          -          -            -               -        965.9                                -    965.8    0.0    0.0
INC.OPERAII8o COSlS            405,1       7,3      122,2       21,7            -            13.0        229,5            -   2,296.9        -   3409.6,   6.8  210.3
_- - - -   .. ..    .     ... .   ..     .. . . .   .. . . . .   .. . . .. . .   .... . . .   .. . .. ..   ... . .   .. . .   .. .. .   .. .   ..._ -.
Total RECURRENT COSTS              619,5       7.3      326,2       21,7            -            98.5      1,195.3            -   2,296,9        -   4,555.2    4.6  210.3
Total BASELINE COSTS              2,077#2    476.1    1l344,4       300.8      3.164,2           146.4      1,265,7      7.831,7   2,296,9    706,3  19,609.7   10,1 1.93816
Physical Conting,ncles           230,9      61.1      130.2       30,1        474,6             7.1         10,9        783,2     149,6    105,9  1993.6    0,0    0.0
Price Contingencies              628.0     106.2      325,4       7691        924,7            341,?       245,9      2.621#4    893,7    235,5  6.091,7    9,1  553,2
_... ....    . .. .....    -----  -----     -----        -------        ------       ------       ........    ---  -  ----         -;..  _.._....
Total PROJECT COSTS               2,936,1     643.5    1.900,0      406.9      4,563,5           188.4      1,522.4    1l1236.2   3o340,1  1,047.7  27,684,9   9.2 2,53607
33g8x38:3  2383:3:3   S:3:S3:::::  3=3383   :      3::::3:::xS  c3an2cass3:888    33333333333  3I338:1:112  3 3:81  33X2333   3X3x33x3  Exams  an3a3
Taxes                            757,3    167,3       465,3      105,2        912,2            30,9         38,4      3,595,2     751,9   272,4   7r096.7    9.9  700.1
Foreign Exchange              I1,15.4      290,3      699.6      235,3      1.982,0            41,7      1,080.1      5,319.9   1,152,6    313,3  12s300,1   9.4  Is151.S
--- -- ---  -.- --.   .   _--  -._                                               .- - --- -- -- --- -- -  --- -- -- --- -- --- -- -- ---    - -- --- -- -- --- -- --- --  . ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. ..
01



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNIZSA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
Etimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
Bank Disbursements /i                       Relevant Disbursement Profiles /l
IBRD                                                       (USA '0001 'CmNu1ativ. X DitbursedI
Fiscal                                         By End of                  Cumulative      Bankwide           EMENA        Bankwide
Year            Semester Ending               Semester    Cumulative   X Disbursed    Area Dev.          Agriculture   Agriculture   Tunisia
85              June 1985                       -              -              0              0               1              0            0
86              December 1985                 300            300               2             2               2              2             2
June 1986                    450             750              5             5                5              6            6
87              December 1986                 750         1l500               10            10              11             12           14
June 1987                  1,000          2,500              17            15               16             17           20
8B              December 1987               1.500          4.000             27             21              23             24           29
June 1988                  2,000          6,000              40            29               31             32           40
89              December 1988              2,000           8,000             53             37              40             41           50
June 1989                  2.000         10,000              67            45               49             S0           59         w
90              December 1989              2.000          12,000             80             54              57             58           68
June 1990                  1,500         13.500              90            62               65             67           75
91              Oecember 1990              1l000          14,500             97             70              72             74           81
June 1991                    5o0         15,000             100            77               79             81           86
92              December 1991                                                               84              84             87           90
June 1992                                                                  89               89             91           93
93              December 1992                                                              93               93             95           96
June 1993                                                                  97               96             98           98
94              December 1993                                                              99               98            100          100
Number of Projects:                       105              102            427           52
/a  Expected date of signing:           April 1985.                                   1   The "EMENA Area 0evelopmentO profile is not an
Expected Date of Effectiveness:  September 1985.                                      appropriate guide because the oldest loan is
Expected Completion Date:           June 30, 1990.                                    only 8 1/2 years old.
Expected Closing Date:              June 30, 1991.
2441E/p42                                                                                                                                          -*1
a
0I
w*



- 40 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                      Table 4
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
Rural Roads Segments
Segment                 No.               Length (km)
Jendouba
Zraibia                          6301                    12
Sraa - Oued Aliz                 6302                     7
Sub-total                                 19
Beja
Bouned - Ouled Ayar              6201                    13
Slaugia - Tefercha               6202                     6
Testour - Labrage                6203                    10
Oued Slam - Trabelsia            6304                     5
Oued Slama - Zlass               6205                     5
Sub-total                                39
Siliaxna
Bargou - Saoudia (Ouled Frej)   5201                     11
Krib - GP 18 (Doukhamia)         5202                     7
Sub-total                                18
El Kef
Sers - Zouniet                   5101                     5
Sers - Bourouis                  5102                    17
Najet - Le Kef                   5103                    12
Sub-total                                34
Total                                   110
2441E/p41



- 41 -
Table 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1.       Tunisia Agricultural Sector Survey (Report No. 3876-TUN,
dated September 29, 1982, in two volwues).
2.       Milk Collection Master Plan (SWEDFARM).
3.       Input Supply Master Plan (SWEDFARM).
4.       Farm Mechanization Master Plan (GERSAR).
5.       Fifth Highway (Rural Roads) Project Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No. 3722-TUN, dated February 18, 1982).
6.       Tunisie - Projet de developpement des grandes cultures et de
l'elevage dans le Nord-Ouest (Rapport No. 118/83 CP-TUN 26,
le 16 decembre 1983).
2441E/p42



- 42 -
{I!  Z i Chart 1
{W~~~~~~~~i
{~~~~~~~~El
I.
X A



Chart 2
lUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Implernentation Schedule
Project2Year                 1            23                        4
Caendar Year     198S         1986         1987         1988         1989
a.r                          lTU~~-- T   171 T
Extension                                   I(I                         I 
NewClYs             _5    -   _   (5)  _    1 ~~~~~~~~~~(5)  _ (4)_
Additions                                 5)      _
Animcal Health Centers                    e        m  (
Milk Clt  C e                                                          jer
AnedmalBuLngCts C ente rs
Farm MachineiTesting                                                 I  i 
j29km)       {37cm)       22 mk;   _ 22 km
rQuc Roo=s__                                                            X 
PRU
Key Adoointn-ents
Training. Tecrinical AsustaceL
& StudJies                              mlii           linm     i      '.l aiim
&~~~~~
Oraorm Development                        | (3  |      en  mum   i.           i mim
hnt Qesele Centets                           _          .              _           I
(OC. COCEBLE & CCGC)                                                                   2
__i~~~~~~~~~~L~_



I                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
?30                       80 ooe30                                            9-00
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
Project Location
Tabwk, '
C                    7
-- a,    ,El Acu
I             -                -           j   El AiEl
I                                              W t~~~~~V
of The atm SW* ~~~             ~f                   ~
h,M*i_.  w     1 SI. 
.B. W VW SWU.SW
-F                                      ;       ]    t.- ,--                 _       
of NM" wi    Aw 
__13_d                 rooa                  N                           sur El  u '
ITALY      I  
AREA       |
-I#_5w -\- -\  
OF MAP                         n.v
f' e-                                         \-.r
ALGER IA                                          - r  *\
I ~~~  L I 8YA                            -~
a30                       900 



IBRD
il930,                       IOOw                            10-30'                         11-00'o                             FEBRUAR 
:Bizerte
,-                                                               r
MOV' '                - \ <>ZSRe J a bil /t,<   e d  I  {  ( t ,                        li                t
* Tobourb_
~~~~~~~~~~~~/ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~ ~ Nbu                            0   Goeort Capitals/ M^gg
4"/~~~~~BorjElAmn                         .            /OZOf
J, z /f-r-               I                            (,/orXea =                                            Puoiect Area Boundary
sssb~oCr GubS                                               'tZCJv>>i   sohyets in Millimeters
1~~~~ *>  t   ~sc  National Copital
4  /- r >   s) 4~~~~~~~ 9                          ~-    Nabeul                    @   Governorole Capitals
Governorate Boundaries
; -  |  8-p EkZ      ;;                         /                                 -.-  International Boundaries
Jou i                                            11.* ;  \   Ci'  %  <   7i                       Elevations (in Metws)
00                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1000
\   t   9   t_           }E   .       /                                            !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 600
\;   -  v  \-%1!   sA             /            --    -                    ' ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 200
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-.    ;A! -j   {              <      s-          WElia                                                   Chotts (Saltwater Laks)
NK'               V         s-  /  ' -    . 
0     10    20    30    40    so
,9   g  {   fsibiiNcs  Twt   galZa\K ILOMETERS
X 0    J o u " _    >/   }    /            ;    Sne 4v~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sotisse
)OueSSIah a                                                >MoricMtir
/                       {                     ,~ { y/ Kair6uan .
30     (             io' 7             -               3M                                                         10hdic
2 zC 1, {S~~~~~~~idi A;;og   
t30   \          ; /   10~i-00 oo,                    TO'30'           EJ            1-                             11'30'



