' i./V Z397~- /iDbA7
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
*1  ;,TA)t ,-a'.  h'-s     h1 L(|_!,- PMI, - 
Report No. P-5S88BUL
REPORT AND RECOMMDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
ITTERN4ATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
MEECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADUSTMENT LOAN (SAL)
IN AK AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250 KILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
JULY 9, 1991
ThWs docment Us a restriced distition and may be sed by reipiets ony in the performane of
tbe. ofl duties. Its contents ay sot oerwise be disdosed wihu World   k uthorizaton.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit   Lev (plural Leva)
18    198  12_19 222   1990  May 1991
US$1.0      1.42   1.30   1.67   1.82   2.11   15.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AEPD      --   Agency for Economic Programming and Development
BCC       --   Bank Consolidation Company
BFTB      --   Bulgaria Foreign Trade Bank
BNB       --   Bulgarian National Bank
CCFF       -   Compensatory Contingency Financing Facility
CMEA      --   Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DDSR       -   Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EC-PHARE  --   European Community - Program of Assistance for Reforming
Economies in Eastern Europe
IFI       - -    International Financial Institutions
JSC       --   Joint-Stock Company
MFN       --   Most Favored Nation
MITS      --   Ministry of Industry, Trade and Services
MOF       --   Ministry of Finance
NCP       --   National Commission on Prices
NTB       --   Non-Tariff Barriers
SAL       --   Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA       --   Stand-By Arrangement
SE        --   State Enterprises
SICF      --   State Investment Credit Fund
PA        --   Privatization Agency
SPB       --   Socialist Party of Bulgaria
TAP       --   Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform
UDF       --   Union of Democratic Forces
BULGARIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
BTULARIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      i
INTRODUCTION  .               .................      .........           1
PART I -THEECONOMY  .                ...........   ... ........          1
A. Recent Political Developments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B. Structure of the Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
C. Economic Developments in 1990  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
D. External Debt and Creditworthiness . . . . . . . . . . . .       6
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM  . . . . . . . .      7
A. Background and Overview  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
B. Stabilization Policies and Initial Results . . . . . . . .    9
1.    The  Program   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
2.  Initial Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
C. Structural Adjustment Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
1.  Introduction  .               . .  . .                   13 . . . . .  1
2.  Competition and Market-Based Relative Prices  . . . .   14
(a)  Trade Policy  . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     14
(b)  Demonopolization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
3.  Private Sector Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
(a)  The Regulatory Framework  . . . . . . . . . . .   17
(b)  Banking Sector Reform . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
(c)  Privatization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
4.  State Enterprise Restructuring and Energy Pricing . .   26
(a)  Owntership and Management of State Enterprises .   26
(b)  Industrial Restructuring  . . . . . . . . . . .   28
(c)  Special Actions for the Energy Sector . . . . .   29
5.  Social Safety Net and Labor Markets . . . . . . . . .   31
PART III - EXTERNAL FINANCING NEEDS AND CREDITWORTHINESS  . . . . .   36
A.  The Outlook for Growth ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    36
B.  External Debt and Creditworthiness .       . . . . . . . . . . .   40
1.  Overall Strategy and Institution Building . . . . . .   40
2.  External Financing .  . . . . . . . . .          . . . . . . .   42
This report is based on an appraisal mission which visited Bulgaria in May,
1991, and which included J. Wilton (Task Manager and Senior Economist),
O. de Bruyn Kops (Senior Industry Specialist), H. Moritz (Senior Financial
Specialist), A. Wheeler (Education Economist), J. Moose (Senior Financial
Analyst), Z. Bogetic (Economist) and M. Herman (Economist). EM5CO is the
Division responsible for this loan (P. Nouvel, Division Chief), European
Department (Russell Cheetham, Directer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART IV -THE PROPOSED SAL ................... .   46
A.  Objectives of the SAL and Country Strategy ... .  .  .  .    .   46
B. Components and Tranche Release Conditions .  . . . . . . .   47
C. Loan Amount ar.d Cofinancing .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   51
D. Utilization .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   51
E.  Procurement and Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   51
F.  Audit Requirements   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    52
G.  Risks  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    52
H.  Implementation and Institutional Arrangements  . . . . . .   53
I.  IFC's Relation to the Country  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
J.  Coordination with IMF  ......  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .   .    54
PART V -RECOMMENDATION ..................... .   54
Text Tables
Table 1: Bulgaria: Energy Prices - June 1990 - Feb. 1991  . . . . .   30
Table 2: Bulgaria: Key Macroeconomic Indicators 1989 - 2000 . . . .   38
Table 3: Bulgaria: Financing Plan 1990 - 2000 . . . . . . . . . . .   43
Table 4: Bulgaria: Debt Indicators 1991 - 2000  . . . . . . . . . .   45
Attachments
ANNEXES
Social Indicators of Development, 1990
Annex I   : Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Annex II  : Letter of Development Policy
and SAL I Policy Matrix
Annex III : Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Annex IV  : Status of Bank Group Operations
kfi: IBRD No. 22689



v i -
ByLGARIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAA
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Bulgaria
Amount:                 US$250 million equivalent
TeXMs:                  Repayment in seventeen years, including a four-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Objectives:             The primary objective of the proposed SAL is to support the
Government's economic reform program, which aims to reduc-
macroeconomic imbalances as well as lay the foundations for
sustained growth and the restoration of creditworthiness.
This is to be achieved by initiating a fundamental
transformation of the economy away from central planning
towards a market economy. The economic reform program also
provides the necessary social safety net to mitigate the
costs of transition.
Description:            The Government's Economic Reform Program represents an
unprecedented effort, combining stabilization and structural
policies designed to limit the current economic decline and
initiate a rapid transition to a market economy. The reform
program is being undertaken at a time when the economy is
being adversely affected by large negative excernal shocks
and when access to foreign financing is severely constrained.
The stabilization component of the program is ongoing,
supported by the IMF. The two main policy anchors of this
program are a tight incomes policy and restrictive monetary
policy, supported by sharply higher interest rates. The
Government has also adopted a unified and market-based
foreign exchange system and a budget which is consistent with
its macroeconomic targets. These measures are being
complemented by structural adjustment reforms in the
following areas: (i) increased competition and the
establishment of market-based relative prices through trade
policy reform, demonopol. dation and the liberalization of
prices; (ii) private sector development, through reform of
the regulatory/incentive framework, creation of a modern
banking system reform and the privatization of state owned
assets; (iii) state enterprise (SE) restructuring and energy
pricing, which includes clarification of ownership rights and
improvement in SEs management, as well as price reform and
institutional strengthening in the energy sector; and,
(iv) the establishment of an adequate social safety net to
prevent incomes falling below subsistence and increase labor
mobility.



- ii -
Benefits and Riskp:    The expected benefits of t.Ce Government's reform program
include the creation of the basic institutional, legal and
incentiv.o framework needed to support a market economy driven
by a dynamic private sector and a financially sound, scaled-
down state sector. It is expected that these reforms will
create the conditions for the economy to move on to a
sustainable growth path, capable of supporting an increase in
living standards and a restoration of creditworthiness. One
of the main risks associated with the program is that the
magnitude of the external shock coupled with the near-term
deflationary consequences of the stabilization program could
increase economic difficulties to a degree that popular
support for the program, and hence the Government's resolve,
is weakened. The limited access to foreign capital markets
gives the Government little room for manoeuvre to offset any
additional shocks via foreign borrowing. While financing for
1991 seems to be adequate, financing for the period 1992 to
1995 is less certain. Another major uncertainty concerns the
upcoming elections. A major change in Government could
result in the pace of reform slowing to a degree that the
second tranche conditions are not met. The provision of an
adequate social safety net and the current agreement with the
major trade unions reduces these risks by making the
transition less painful and by involving the population in
the decision-making process. In addition, the structural
adjustment reforms will create the enabling environment for
the restoration of the supply response in the medium-term as
well as providing badly needed foreign exchange this year.
Disbursements:          The loan would be disbursed against general imports except
for the usual negative list of ineligible items. The loan
would be disbursed in two tranches, the first of
US$150 million and the second of US$100 million. The first
tranche would be made available upon effectiveness of the
loan agreement, expected in early August 1991, the second
tranche would be available after compliance with the second
tranche conditions expected by early 1992. Retroactive
financing of up to US$50 million (20 percent of the loan) for
expenditures incurred after April 1 is proposed. The loan is
expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1992. The SAL is
expected to be co-financed by the Japanese Export-Import Bank
and USAID in the amounts of US$100 million and US$10 million
respectively.
Rate of Return:         Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:       Not applicable.
Schedule of
disbursements:          Bank fiscal year                   US$ million
FY92                              250
"ag:                    IBRD No. 22689



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION Ot THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BAMN FOR RECONSTJWCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE =E,TIVE DIRETOR
ON A PROPOSED SSTR!&CTMtAL ADJUSTENT LOAN USAL)
IN AN AMOUMT ROUIVA=ENT TO US$250 MILLION
IO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGR^
INTRODU-CTION
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to the Republic of Bulgaria in an amount
equivalent of US$250 million to provide financial support for the Government's
Economic Reform Program. The loan would support the first phase of a
structural adjustment program aimed at transformirg Bulgaria into a market
economy and restoring economic growth. The loan would have a term of 17 years
including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The EXIM
Bank of Japan and USAID will provide additional cofinancing. Bulgaria is
under a 12-moaith Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) in the amount of SDR 279 million
with the IMF approved in March 1991, and has approved access to the
Compensatory Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF) for SDR 60.6 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "BulgaiLa - Crisis and Transition to a
Market Economy" (Report No 9046, dated January 23, 1991), has been distributed
to the Executive Directors. This report provides a detailed analysis of
the state of the Bulgarian economy and an outline of the type of reform
program needed. This section incorporates the report's main findings as well
as more recent developments. Basic social and economic indicators are given
in Annex I.
A. Recent Political Develogments
3.       In November 1989, the Communist Government (headed by Todor Zhivkov
who had been in power since 1956) fell, initiating a process of momentous
political change. The monopoly position of the Communist Party was abolished
in January 1990, and the country held its first free, multi-party elections in
June. These elections resulted in the Socialist Party of Bulgaria (SPB)
gaining a narrow majority in parliament, with the newly formed opposition
party, the United Democratic Forces (UDF), winning most of the remaining
seats. After failing to obtain the necessary consensus to back the SPB's
economic reform program, the Government resigned in November 1990, and was
replaced with a coalition "program" Government.
4.       The current Government's mandate is to implement a comprehensive
economic reform program designed to establish a competitive market economy and
to pass a new Constitution which recognizes and protects the legal rights of



individuals, including private property rights. Most of the economic
ministries in the new Government are headed by members of the UDF, who are
strongly committed to implementing the program. Popular support for the
Government remains high, reflecting the widespread dissatisfaction with the
previous Government's lack of action and the systemic shortages and inflation
which had ..aveloped.
5.       The Government plans to hold elections as soon as the major initial
components of the reform program are in place aad the new Consritution is
adopted. According to the current timetable this would indicate that
elections will be held in the fall of 1991 or in early 1992. Given the
consensus across political parties on the economic reform program, a change in
the fundamental direction of economic policy is not anticipated.
B. Structure of the Economy
6.       Bulgaria is a lower-middle income country with a population of about
nine million and a per capita income estimated at US$2320 for 1989'. Until
this year, practically all segments of economic activity were controlled by
the state, with the exception of small family plots in agriculture and privare
housing. Under the Communist Government (1946-89), a strongly centralized
economic system was used to promote the expansion of industry at the cost of
Bulgaria's comparatively competitive agricultural activities. Consequently:
the share of industry expanded from about 26 percent of NMP in 1946, to an
estimated 60 percent of NMP in 1989. The development of the industrial sector
was heavily influenced by Bulgaria's strong ties with the CMEA block and, in
particular, the Soviet Union.
7.       Since the 1950s, the Bulgarian economy has developed within an
economic system characterized by massive price distortions and direct state
control over resource allocation. Tne economy was insulated from direct
international competition via a complex mix of subsidies, taxes and foreign
exchange rationing. Nonetheless, international trade continued to play a very
significant role in the economy, with total trade (exports plus imports)
equivalent to an unusually high 80 percent of 1989 GDP. Most of this trade
(approximately two-thirds) was with CKEA member countries. As a result, the
Bulgarian economy is significantly affected by the tumultuous events that are
unfolding in Eastern Europe, particularly the disruption of trade flows with
the Soviet Union.
8.      Although recorded output growth continued to remain positive in the
1980s (about 3 percent per annum), many of the problems common to centrally
,J The estimate for 1989 is derived using the World Bank's Atlas methodology, which is based on a three
year average exchange rate for the period 1987-89. The estimate of per capita income for 1991 will
decline significantly due to a fall of about 30 percent in GDP over the p_riod end-1989 to end-1991 and
a realignment of prices and the exchange rate. The current estimate for 1991 using the projected Leva
GDP and the estimated average exchange rate (IW) is about US$1272. This estimate implies an
unrealistically low per capita income and comparative real wage--primarily due to the temporary
overshooting of the exchange rate. A more realistic estimate produces an estimated of about US$ 1637
for 1991.



- 3 -
planned economies began to constrain economic performance.2 In 1989, GDP
declined by 0.3 percent, the first officially acknowledged decline since the
Second World War. The decline reflected the continued poor performance of
agriculture and a marked slow-down in industrial growth during the second half
of the decade. At the same time, increases in money wages, the expansion of
credit, and extensive price controls led to the emergence of a large monetary
overhang and shortages of goods.
9.       The industrial sector accounts for 51.6 percent of GDP and employs
46 percent of the working population. Growth in value added slowed throughout
the 1980s, despite the increasing share of total investment allocated to the
sector (up from 59 percent in 1980 to 63 percent in 1989). Most of this
investment was directed into the chemical, engineering and electric goods
industries, to produce goods for the CMEA market. The focus of industry on
the CMEA and domestic markets has limited exposure to the more demanding
convertible currency markets, thereby reducing the incentive to increase
competitiveness and product quality. Many industries have been able to
continue to operate with obsolete production facilities and out of date
technology. Although there were several attempts at institutional reforms,
the State continued to dominate the ownership of enterprises, accounting for
98 pe-cent of industrial output at end-1989.
10.      hgriculture accounts fer 17.5 percent of GDP and employs 19 percent
of the working population. Output has been declining over the past decade
because of weak producer incentives, the inability of the centralized control
system to operate farms efficiently, the policy of subsidizing loss-making
farms by taxing profitable ones, and underinvestment in the sector. Crop and
livestock production each account for about half of agricultural production.
Crop yields are generally below the European average and have been declining.
Private agriculture has been tolerated for the production of labor intensive
crops (e.g., fruits and vegetables) and meat, and productivity of these
activities is markedly higher.
11.      The banking sector in Bulgaria has followed a development pattern
similar to that of other East European countries. Private banks were
nationalized in 1947, and a strongly centralized banking system was put in
place. Thereafter, bank credit represented a small share of investment funds
relative to expenditure from the state budget. An attempt to reorganize the
centralized system in the second half of the 1960s failed, and the traditional
system was resumed. A new banking reform was initiated in 1987 and continued
in 1989, designed to move the system toward a nore active role of monetary
management. However, by end-1989 the financial sector remained largely a
passive tool for channelling credit according to the directives of the Central
Government.
I/ It s*bald be noted that historical growth rates may be overestimated due to an underestimation of
inflation end periodic revisions of the data to roflect plan targets. In addition, the main aggregate
performance indicator - Net Material Product overestimates growth in the whole economy by excluding many
services end giving a disproportionate weight to itdustry.



- 4 -
12.      Development of the energy sector has been driven by the need to
supply the energy-intensive industrial sector and the poorly insulatmd housing
stock. Domestic energy resources are very limited, consisting almost entirely
of low grade lignite and limited amounts of coal. At the margin tLerefore,
the economy is dependent on imports, either in the form of energy itself or
energy equipment (notably nuclear power plants). Practically all of
Bulgaria's oil and gas imports have come from the USSR, at below international
prices. The general level of domestic prices has also been held below
international levels, and relative prices were highly distorted. Due to these
factors the energy intensity of the economy is at least 35 percent above the
expected level, given the structure of the economy and the general income
level.
13.      Bulgaria's environmental problems emanate primarily from the
industrial structure and pattern of energy use described above. Thermal power
stations, metallurgical and chemical plants and other industrial activities
are the major sources of pollution. Industrialized urban areas suffer from
polluted air due to the low quality and high sulphur content of local lignite
and coal. Inland water surfaces and the Danube are significantly polluted,
and there has been very limited investment in air and water pollution control.
14.      From the mid-1980s, Bulgaria's 'xternal gosition has been
characterized by a persistent and increasing deficit with convertible currency
countries and a more recent sutplus with the GMEA. Due to a decline in
convertible currency exports and an expansion of imports, the current account
deficit with convertible currency countries increased from US$0.7 billion in
1986 to US$1.3 billion in 1989. In addition, payment arrears began to
accumulate on the sizeable export credits (estimated at US$2.2 billion) that
Bulgaria had extended to developing countries. The resulting external deficit
was financed primarily through borrowing in convertible currencies from
private commercial banks, frequently with short maturities. As a result, the
debt service ratio increased to 74 percent of convertible curren-,y exports and
total external debt rose to US$9.2 billion by end-1989. Approximately
85 percent of this debt was contracted with foreign private banks, and about
40 percent of that is estimated to be short-term. Bilaterals account for mo.:t
of the remaining debt in convertible currencies.
C. Economic Develogments in 1990
15.      Economic performance deteriorated rapidly in 1990, due to a
co2bination of adverse external shocks, the effects of the momentous political
o.hange that had occurred in November 1989, and delay in implementing the
required economic reform measures. The initial disintegration of CMEA trade
and payments arrangements during 1990, coupled with the overall contraction of
East European economies, disrupted supplies of vital imported inputs (most
notably, oil from the USSR) and caused a considerable decline in Bulgarian
exports. The Government was unable to offset this shock via imports from
convertible currency countries because access to voluntary foreign capital
i.A,lows was cut following the Government's inability to service existing debt
obligations. In March 1990, the Government unilaterally suspended debt



- 5 -
payments by the Bvlgarian Foreign Trade Bank (BFTB). The Gulf Crisis worsened
the external situation, through higher oil prices, the curtailment of oil
supplies from Iraq, and a sharp reduction in trade with both Kuwait and Iraq.
On the domestic side, the political change that began in late 1989 caused
considerable economic dislocation and uncertainty. Wx.:le the former socialist
government took some steps to address the deteriorating economic performance,
no significant economic change materialized, and the economy was allowed to
drift, governed by neither a central plan nor market mechanisms.
16.      As a result of these developments, GDP declined an estimated
11.8 percent in 1990, with industry, agriculture and services declining by an
estimated 16.3 percent, 6.7 percent and 6.4 percent, respectively. On the
expenditure side, consumption declined by about 12 percent, and gross domsstic
investment fell by about 9 percent. Inflation accelerated to an estimated
average annual rate of 26 percent 64 percent by year-end), fueled by both
increases in nominal wages and a large monetary overhang. The general
government budget deficit (on an accrual basis) also increased markedly from
1.4 percent of GDP in 1989 to 14 percent in 1990. This increase primarily
reflected lower revenue from the profit tax (due to declining economic
activity and higher wages) and higher current expenditures (due to the effect
of the devaluation of the exchange rate on foreign interest payments).  The
resulting cash deficit (9.2 percent of GDP) was financed via recourse to
lending from the Central Bank. With domestic demand and the availability of
domestic and imported goods moving in opposite directions, shortages at
official prices became endemic and black market prices increased. Formal
rationing for basic goods was introduced, gasoline sales were periodically
suspended, and some foodstuff exports were banned.
17.      Bulgaria's external position deteriorated further in 1990, due to a
decline in convertible currency exports, a bunc'hing of debt payments, and the
virtual depletion of official foreign exchange reserves. Total exports and
imports are estimated to have declined by 15.5 percent and 11.7 percent
respectively. In terms of the two currency regimes, convertible currency
exports declined by an estimated 16 percent, while exports to CKMA fell by
15.2 percent. The decline of imports from the CNEA area was less pronounced
(5.9 percent) than the decline in imports from the convertible currency area
(17.7 percent). The deteriorating external situation led the authorities to
declare a moratorium on the principal payments due on the external debt of the
Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank (BFTB) in March 1990. For the component of
BFTB's debt owed to foreign private banks (85 percent), the moratorium has
been extended via a succession of three-month deferral agreements and
broadened to cover most interest payments. The resulting cessation of access
to practically all forms of foreign financing constrained the current account
deficit with convertible currency countries to an estimated US$1.1 billion in
1990. This was primarily financed through a drawdown in foreign exchange
reserves, which fell from US$1.1 billion at end-1989 to an estimated
US$0.2 billion by end-1990, equivalent to less than 2 weelks of imports.



- 6-
D. Externall Debt and_greditworthiness
18.      At the end of 1990, Bulgaria's external debt in convertible currency
amounted to an estimated $10.3 billion (equivalent to about 52 percent of GDP
and 321 percent of convertible currency exports). Cf this amount, about
$2.1 billion was deferred payments to foreign private banks. About 80 percent
of Bulgaria's debt was owed to commercial creditors and 20 percent to official
creditors. Scheduled debt payments in 1990 amounted to $3.9 billion, of which
only $1.4 billion was paid. An agreement was recently reached with the Paris
Club which rescheL.ales all payments due until March 1992 as well as a large
share of the arrears accumulated during 1991. While this will help Bulgaria
overcome the severe liquidity problem it confronts this year, it does not
reduce the medium-term debt burden. A meeting of the London Club creditors
occurred on June 10-11, which resulted in a further three months rollover of
all debt obligations. Although new loans are not being made, the
capitalization of interest payments due to the London Club creditors is
increasing ti;e total amount of debt due. Through the remainder of 1991 actual
payments on private debt are likely to be minimal, requiring a further
deferral of debt obligations.3
19.     At the beginning of 1991 the Bulgarian economy was severely affected
by massive external shocks and by the almost complete lack of access to
private foreign financing. The external shock is e imated to be as much as
$3.5 billion (about 17 percent of 1990 GDt, significantly more than other
Eastern European countries, and derives from three principal sources. First,
the movement to world prices for CMEA trade results in a negative terms of
trade effect, projected for 1991 to be about $1.2 billion assuming constant
volumes. This reflects both Bulgaria's high level of trade with CMEA
countries and, more importantly. the composition of this trade.' Second,
there will be a significant re .ction in the volume of export trade, due both
to the contraction in the CMEA market and the absence of an effective hard
currency payments system in the Soviet Union. Bulgaria's exports to CMEA
countries are projected to decline by about 30 percent in 1991 (after a
15 percent decline in 1990), resulting in an estimated $1.3 billion loss in
exports. Third, the Gulf crisis has imposed an additional burden, estimated
at about $865 million. This reflects a number of factors including the non-
payment of debt by Iraq, lost income from construction and transport
contracts, a reduction in trade, and higher oil prices than agreed under
contracts signed in early 1990.  The sum of these externa; shocks imposes a
significant additional burden on the economy. Unless partly alleviated
2/ A longer-term solution, including a DDSR or equivalent support, is needed to bring a lasting improvement
in creditworthiness and prepare the ground for new capital flows. A medium-term financing strategy to
address this problem is part of the Government's economic program. This strategy, and the various
institutional steps that the Government have alteady taken to strengthen their capacity in this area,
are explained in Part III of the Prasident's Report.
i/ Bulgaria's exports to the CMEA countries were comprised primarily of manufactured goods (e.g. 69 percent
of exports was machinery in 1989) which fell in price, whereas its CMEA imports were predominantly raw
materials, particularly oil from the Soviet Union, which increased in price.



through new financing, the risks associated with the Government's radlcal
reform program will increase.
PART II - THE GOV_RNMENTS ECONOMIC REFORM PROgRAM
A. Background and Overview
20.      Although there had been an active debate within Bulgaria on how to
respond to the rapidly deteriorating economic situation and move towards a
market economy, little progress had been made by late 1990. This reflected
indecision concerning the speed and sequencing of reform and, more
importantly, the inability of the former Government to secure a national
consensus for its proposed economic reform program. The new coalition
'program" Government was formed to unblock this impasse. On coming to power
the new Government quickly reached an agreement with the trade unions and the
employers to support the near-term austerity measures associated with the
stabilization program. They also reached agreement with parliament on a
prioritized list of legislative reforms.
21.      Since February 1991, the authorities have begun to implement a
comprehensive economic reform program designed to limit the current economic
decline and to initiate the transition to a market economy. The program is
comparable to those recently adopted in Poland and Czechoslovakia. Indeed, in
some respects the Bulgarian reform program goes beyond the measures taken in
these countries, particularly in the areas of agricultural land reform, the
extent of price and trade liberalization and, potentially, the restructuring
of the banking sector. A radical reform program was necessary because the
initial economic conditions (particularly the debt overhang and the size of
the external shock) left the authorities with little or no room for manoeuver.
A more gradualist approach would have delayed the prospect of economic
recovery, undermined credibility and perhaps delayed the availability of badly
needed external financial support.
22.      In the initial phase, the Government focussed its efforts on those
policy measures designed to quickly reduce macroeconomic imbalances to a
sustainable level and create a set of market-based relative prices. This
stabilization program was nece:sary in order to establish an overall economic
environment capable of supporting the systemic reform of the real economy.
The main policy instruments used to achieve the stabilization objectives have
been a tight incomes policy and restrictive monetary policy supported by
increased interest rates. The Government has also unified the exchange rate
and moved to a market-based exchange system, removed all controls on domestic
prices except public utilities and energy products, and comprehensively
reduced barriers to international trade. In addition, the Government has
adopted a budget which is consistent with its macroeconomic targets, while
providing adequate financing for social safety net expenditures, such as
pensions and unemployment.



23.      The Government is now turning its atten:ion to the more complex and
time-consuming issues related to creating the basic regulatory and incentive
framework for the development of a market economy. As state ownership was
widespread, and the exposure to markets relatively small, this transfotmation
will necessarily take time. Nevertheless, the authorities have made
significant progress in passing the necessary legislation and building the
institutions required to initiate this process. In the area of privatization,
the authorities have passed a far-reaching Land Reform Bill and the necessary
implementing regulations, which establishes the framework for returning all
agricultural land to private owners. Implementation of the land reform
program is being supported by technical assistance from the EC-PHARE program
and the USAID's cofinancing of the proposed SAL. The authorities have also
created the necessary legal framework to allow the sale of small enterprises
and the assets of large firms via auctions. They have prepared a program for
the sale of small state-owned retail establishments and initiated the program
by undertaking the pilot auction of gasoline stations and shops. In the area
of demonopolization the authorities have made significant progress in
breaking-up monopolies, particularly in the transport and trading areas. Most
of the monopolies in agriculture have undergone the first stage of
demonopolization, and in industry some 130 industrial conglomerates and trusts
had been identified for demonopolization in the near future. This is an
important step towards stimulating domestic competition and reducing the
barriers to entry for new firms.
24.        The Government is currently pushing ahead with the priority
legislation, and has recently passed the Competition Law, the Commercial Law,
and the Foreign Investment Law.   The Privatization Law is currently being
considered in Parliament, and a new high level Special Committee has been
formed, to clarify the overall strategy and institutional relationships for
large-scale privatization and state enterprise management. The Government is
also considering different options for undertaking a comprehensive
restructuring of the banking sector, and has adopted an approach for dealing
with the stock of non-performing loans. The Government has actively sought
technical assistance in the design and implementation stages of these reforms,
much of which is being coordinated under the recently approved Technical
Assistance Project for Economic Reform (TAP).
25.      This part of the report provides a detailed description and appraisal
of the Government's economic reform program. It first summarizes the
stabilization measures and initial results, and subsequently provides a
detailed discussion of the structural adjustment component which would be
supported by the proposed loan. It closes with a discussion of the issues
related to medium-term prospects and financing requirements of the economy,
including the need for a comprehensive resolution of the external debt
problem.



- 9 -
B. St.,bilization Policies and Initial Results
1. The Program
26.      The acceleration of inflation during the latter part of 1990, the
growing shortage of goods and the severe external financing constraint,
necessitated that the Government take strong action on a number of fronts
simultaneously. Such a program was put into effect at the beginning of
February 1991, supported by the IMF through an SDR 279 million Stand-By
Arrangement (SBA) and a Compensatory Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF)
currently approved for SDR 60.6 million. The program comprises stabilization
measures to absorb the excess liquidity in the economy (through control of
incomes policy, a drastic reduction in the fiscal deficit and restrictive
credit and monetary policies) and measures to contain the external deficit,
produce a new structure of relative prices to improve production incentives
and stimulate financial saving (through exchange rate and interest rate reform
and price liberalization). The authorities realize that such a far-reaching
program will impose considerable short-term costs on the economy, but feel
that a radical approach is required to restore confidence and establish
credibility.
27.      The previous exchanee rate, based on administratively determined,
multiple exchange rates, partial surrender requirements and limited foreign
currency auctions, became virtually inoperative by the end of 1990. Effective
February 18, 1991, exchange rates were unified, and a floating exchange rate
system was introduced based on a decentralized inter-bank market. The
authorities are aware of the need to stabilize the exchange market to provide
an anchor to price expectations, but, in their judgement, the current economic
situation prevents them from adopting a fixed rate. Consequently, the burden
of restraining inflation will fall primarily on incomes and financial
policies, including an active interest rate policy. Once the exchange rate
has reached an equilibrium level and other economic constraints have been
alleviated, the authorities expect to play a more active role in supporting a
target exchange rate.
28.      Although some agricultural product prices were liberalized last year,
about 70 percent of goods by sales value were still subject to direct price
control by end-1990. Effective February 1, 1991, most of the restrictions on
retail and producer prices were eliminated. Currently, only energy products
(electricity, heating, propane-butane gas, coal, and petroleum products) and
public utilities, which account for an estimated 10 percent of retail and
wholesale turnover, remain under direct price control. The price of energy
products was raised sigr,tficantly in February and June 1991, bringing them
close to international levels and reducing relative price distortions (see
paras. 89-93 on energy sector). The authorities have also abolished the
former Price Committee and have replaced it with a National Price Commission
(modeled on Western European practices), which will monicor and propose price
changes for controlled public sector goods.



- 10 -
29.      The decision to allow the exchange rate to float and to liberalize
prices has placed tremendous importance on incomes Rolicy as a means of
achieving stabilization objectives. Consequently, the authorities have worked
hard to reach a tripartite agreement with trade unions and employers. This
agreement, which was signed on January 28, 1991, is intended to preserve
social stability and share the costs of transition. Consequently, for the
first quarter of the program it was agreed that every worker in the public
sector would receive the same absolute increase in compensation and that the
average real wage would be allowed to decline sharply to moderate the initial
rise in unemployment. The amount of compensation to be paid under the
tripartite agreement was based on the anticipated increase in a social minimum
basket of goods, comprised of 600 commodities. While the full impact of the
change in controlled prices was taken into account, a fairly conservative
assumption was used regarding the increase in toe price of liberalized
commodities to avoid creating inflationary pressure. As a result, the minimum
wage was raised from Leva 191 to Leva 435, or by 127 percent, and the average
wage by about 66 percent. Based on available price projections, this implied
a 39 percent decline in measured real average wages in the first quarter of
1991. For government employees, wages were controlled directly, whereas for
state enterprises (SEs) and cooperatives a ceiling was imposed on the total
wage bill. This allowed state er.terprises to grant above-average wage
increases to the extent that there was a corresponding reduction in
employment. As explained below, the higher-than-anticipated initial increase
in the price level, coupled with enterprises holding wage increases to below
the agreed nominal ceiling, resulted in real wages actually declining by about
60 percent during the first quarter.
30.      The Government has recently concluded an agreement for the second
quarter wage increase and a new wage determination system for the remainder of
the year.  Both the average and minimum wages are targeted to increase for the
second quarter by about 42 percent (with the minimum wage increasing to
Leva 620), compared to a projected increase in the retail price index of
35 percent. This wage increase is designed to partially compensate for the
higher-than-anticipated actual increase in the social minimum basket of goods
and to offset the projected impact of the substantial increase in energy
prices. The projected wage policy provides for some recovery in real wages
during the second quarter (compared with February-March), and their
maintenance thereafter in line with projected inflation. In contrast to the
February wage award, workers will receive an equiproportional increase, rather
than the same lump sum increase. Starting mid-year, the Government will allow
free wage bargaining at the enterprise level, subject to the overall ceiling
on the increase in the wage bill. An increase up to the agreed ceiling will
not constitute an entitlement, but will be contingent on satisfactory
financial results.
31.      With regard to fiscal policy, the authorities' initial 1991 budget
targeted a reduction in the consolidated fiscal deficit from 9 percent of GDP
on a cash basis for 1990 to a surplus of 0.1 percent. Due to serious
shortfalls in revenues and a larger-than-envisaged decline in economic
activity, the revised budget aims at a cash deficit of 1.9 percent of GDP.
The authorities also intend to reduce drastically the redistributive role of



- 11 -
Government (with the share of budget expenditures in GDP declining from about
71 percent of GDP in 1990 to 44 percent in 1991) and to utilize foreign
financing from official sources to reduce the Governmert's domestic debt to
the banking system, thereby providing funds for both the private sector and
the restructuring of state enterprises within the overall credit ceilings.
Finally, the budget will provide an adequate level of social security
expenditures (paras. 94-113).
32.      Over half of the reduction in expenditures derives from a reduction
in subsidies due to price liberalization and the adjustment in energy prices.
As a result, budgetary subsidies decline from 16.1 percent of GDP in 1990 to
3.2 percent in 1991, with consumer subsidies being essentially eliminated
(except for heating and electricity). On the revenue side, the intention is
to reshape the tax system, by broadening the tax base and creating a mote
neutral tax environment (including the introduction of a value-added tax) over
the next few years. The recent reduction in the profit tax rate from
65 percent to 40 percent is an important step towards achieving the
authorities' objectives. However, there is a need to strike a balance between
the short-run goal of maintaining an adequate level of revenues to contain the
fiscal deficit and the medium-term goal of reducing the redistributive role of
Government. Consequently, a number of temporary and permanent measures have
been adopted to contain the drop in revenues, including additional enterprise
taxes, the simplification of the turnover tax to three rates, a customs tax of
1 percent, and temporary trade taxes.
33.      Given the high degree of uncertainty surrounding the budget estimates
under present circumstances, the authorities have taken two further important
steps in their original budget. First, they budgeted for a leva 4 billion
contingency expenditure, which would allow them to meet unanticipated claims
without jeopardizing their fiscal objective. Second, they prioritized
expenditures into two categories, with releases in the second (non-core
budget) category to be allowed only after revenue estimates are firmer.
34.      The objectives of monetary policy are to absorb the monetary
overhang, control the inflationary pressures which have resulted from the
liberalization of prices, and support a relatively stable exchange rate. The
authorities have adopted credit ceilings on net domestic credit which is
projected to decline by a massive 75 percent in real terms. Credit policies
have also been tightened by increasing the basic interest rate (the interest
rate at which the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) provides credit to banks) frLm
4.5 percent at end-1990 to 45 percent in February 1991 and to 52 percent
effective June 10, 1991. The adjustment in nominal interest rates is intended
to result in positive real interest rates relative to the expected rate of
inflation, once the initial adjustment in the price level has been absorbed.
35.      The monetary authorities intend to gradually shift from credit and
interest rate controls to indirect monetary policy instruments. BNB has
introduced market-based interest rates and open market operations. One-year
treasury bonds were issued in December 1990; this issue provided an effective
yield of 44 percent and was successfully placed with small savers. The BNB is
expected to begin regular auctions of treasury bills in the near future.



- 12 -
2. Initisl Results
36.      Early indications are that the ste'ilization objectives of reducing
the monetary overhang and containing inflationary pressures have been achieved
with remarkable success. However, there has also been a larger than expected
decline in real incomes, employment and output.  This downturn in the real
economy reflects deep-seated structural problems, the larger than expected
external shock, and the initial effects of the reform program. While one
would have expected the economy to initially contract, given the initial
imbalances and the transitional costs of adjusting to a completely new set of
incentives, one cannot overemphasize the effects that the dissolution of the
CMEA, particularly the economic crisis in the USSR, is having on the economy.
As Bulgaria's industrial sector was more dependent on this market than any
other East European country, the negative effects associated with this abrupt
curtailment of trade will take longer to be absorbed. This difficult
situation is compounded by the initial conditions which prevailed at the
outset of the program, particularly the severely limited access to foreign
capital. Consequently, the economy is being forced to adjust to a much lower
level of real income over a very short time period.
37.      Output declined by almost 20 percent, relative to the first quarter
of 1990, due primarily to a collapse in dollar trade with the USSR and the
contraction of domestic demand under the stabilization program. Consequently,
some industries have accumulated large stocks of goods which are difficult to
sell in non-CMEA markets, have placed workers on unpaid leave and have stopped
servicing their outstanding debts. The number of registered unemployed
increased from 65,000 at end-1990 (1.7 percent of the labor force), to 179,000
by end-April (4.6 percent of the labor force). The decline in output and the
non-payment of taxes by those enterprises experiencing a liquidity squeeze,
have caused a shortfall in fiscal revenues. Despite a further reduction in
public expenditures, the budget deficit was slightly above the first quarter
target.
38.      Inflation declined to a remarkably low 3.5 percent for the month of
April and 2.5 percent for May, with the price of foodstuffs actually declining
in both months by 4 and 2 percent, respectively. This follows an increase in
the price level by 110 percent in February and 56 percent in March, as prices
adjusted to international levels following the liberalization of all non-
energy prices. Despite the higher-than-anticipated rate of inflation in the
first quarter, the Government kept the increase in nominal wages and money to
well below the ceilings agreed to under the IMF's SBA. As a result, real
wages declined by an estimated 60 percent (relative to a target of 35 to
40 percent), while the stock of bank credit and broad money declined by about
75 percent in real terms. Aside from inflation, the larger-than-anticipated
decline in real wages reflects the fact that some industries have held wage
increases below the agreed ceiling. On the monetary side, the first quarter
saw an almost complete elimination of the monetary overhang, as evidenced by
the decline in the ratio of broad money to GDP by half and a doubling of the
velocity of money. This reflects the effects of the price liberalization,



- 13 -
repayment of consumer and housing credits and declines in household and
enterprise deposits. The banks are also beginning to experience a contraction
in liquidity due to the large volume of non-performing loans and the high
interest rates payable on deposits. In response, they have adopted
conservative lending practices for new loans, which contributed to the
undershooting of the expansion in net domestic credit allowed for under: the
stabilization program.
39.      On the external side, the exchange rate has stayed in the Leva 16 to
18 Leva to the US$ range, compared to the program target of Leva 10 to the
US$. This is one of the reasons for the higher-than-anticipated rate of
inflation for February/March. Exports to non-CHEA countries are holding up
well, and there are some indications that performance may exceed expectations.
This has been offset, however, by the low level of US dollar exports to the
CMEA countries, particularly the Soviet Union. Consequently, some enterprises
have large stockpiles of finished goods which they can sell only to the CMEA
countries. This disappointing performance may be partly explained by the
initial uncertainty concerning the US$/Lev exchange rate to be used for trade
with the CMEA countries. Once the Government clarified that the same
commercial rate of exchange between the US dollar and Lev was to be used for
all trade, exports to the CMEA block increased. Nonetheless, current
projections would indicate that the level of trade will be significantly below
the level anticipated at the beginning of the year.
40.      In discussing trends in the real economy, the authorities noted that
holding the increase in wages and credit below the first quarter targets
contributed toward establishing the credibility of the program and control
inflationary expectations. This allows room for a slight relaxation of these
policy variables in the second phase of the reform, while still remaining
within the agreed ceilings.
C. Structural Adjustment Policies
1. Introduction
41.      The structural adjustment component of the overall reform program
necessarily overlaps with the stabilization measures discussed in the
preceding section. For example, the decision to implement a radical
liberalization of prices ani move to a market-based exchange rate will have
economic repercussions, in terms of resource allocation and use, which go far
beyond the stabilization phase of the reform program. However, based on the
experience of other reforming East European countries, these measures need to
be quickly supported by systemic reforms designed to increase productivity and
efficiency, at the same time as protecting those negatively affected in the
transition period. This section focuses on the structural measures required
to achieve the Government's medium-term growth objectives and establish a
market-based economy.



- 14 -
42.      The proposed SAL is intended to support the Government's economic
reform progrqm in four broad areas:
* Increased competition and market-based relative prices.
* Private sector development.
* Restructuring SEs and reforming energy pricing policies.
* Establishing a social safety net.
2. Competition and Market-Based Relative Prices
43.      The measures taken in the area of price liberalization and the reform
of the foreign exchange system represent a major stop towards establishing a
market-based set of relative prices. However, the economic benefits
associated with these reforms would be reduced if domestic producers were not
exposed to domestic competition or international trade at world prices.
Therefore, the Government has undertaken a comprehensive and radical reform of
the trade policy regime and has initiated an economy-wide process of
demonopolization.
(a) Trade Policy
44.      Trade policy reform is a central component of Bulgaria's overall
systemic reform program, as it will encourage a restructuring of domestic
production away from its previous reliance on the highly protected CMEA
market, towards activities where Bulgaria has an actual or potential
comparative advantage. Given the small size of Bulgaria's economy,
international trade has accounted for a large share of GDP (exports plus
imports equal to about 80 percent of 1989 GDP). The authorities' objective in
undertaking trade reform is to ensure that trade reflects the efficient use of
domestic resources and not, as in the past, the outcome of a complex web of
subsidies and taxes. Trade reform will thus support an increase in
productivity and a higher rate of export growth.
45.      As a first step, the system of quotas and administered prices was
replaced with a system based primarily on tariffs. With regard to Non-Tariff
Barriers (NTBs) all quantitative restrictions on imports were removed in
February 1991, and import licensing procedures have been liberalized except
for a small group of commodities on a negative list (e.g., tobacco, military
equipment, antiques, etc.). With regard to exports, the large number of
export bans and quotas in effect in 1990 were reduced to only 21 banned items
and externally imposed quotas in March 1991. The remaining bans are primarily
on basic foods and are viewed as a temporary measure due to domestic
shortages. The export quotas are in response to trade restrictions imposed by
importing countries (e.g., the EC textile and meat quotas). These quotas are
being allocated on a competitive basis to those firms that obtain the highest
price from EC firms. In addition, a temporary export tax of 20 percent was



- 15 -
imposed on 26 items (mostly industrial raw materials and clothing) and a
30 percent export tax on 6 items (basic foods) in February 1991. The
30 percent tax was abolished in May 1991, as domestic supplies increased.
46.      The authorities also intend, during 1991, to terminate all subsidies
on exports previously denominated in transferable rubles after the elimination
of outstanding balances from trade agreements made in 1990. For 1991, they
have agreed with the USSR upon an indicative list of goods that both parties
will recommend to their enterprises as mutually beneficial. However,
enterprises are free to determine prices, which are now denominated in
dollars, and trade directly with any buyer. The trade covered by goods on the
indicative list with the USSR will be effected under a clearing arrangement in
US dollars.
47.      Given the removal of non-tariff barriers, the tariff structure has
become much more important. The Bulgarian tariff schedule has basically two
tariff rates for each item depending upon the origin of the imported good.
For imports from LDCs, the average unweighted economy-wide tariff is
6.1 percent.  For imports from countries granted MFN status, the a.verage
tariff is 8.7 percent.5 In addition, the exemption from import duty of 29
LDCs, Finland and USSR under the previous regime will continue as a
transitional measure for 1991. The tariff schedule provides for a moderate
degree of escalating tariff protection by type of product, with average tariff
rates for MFNs of 5.9 percent on intermedi&te goods, 7.4 percent on capital
goods, and 13.3 percent on consumer goods. In addition, the authorities have
imposed a 15 percent temporary import tax on some commodities (mostly consumer
goods) in order to protect domestic producers during the transition period.
48.      The Government plans to undertake a comprehensive analysis of the
existing trade regime and has requested the Bank to provide financing for the
study under the Technical Assistance Project. The terms of reference for this
study have been agreed and the selection of the consultants is being
finalized, with completion of the study targeted for late 1991. The study is
intended to provide a comprehensive review of the trade regime, including
estimates of effective rates of protection and/or domestic resource costs. On
the basis of the study the Government will review its trade regime,
particularly the import tariff schedule. In the meantime, the authorities
also intend to remove all NTBs, except those required for national security
reasons, and to reduce or remove export taxes when domestic supplies increase.
(b) DemonoRolization
49.      The Government has started the demonopolization of large state firms
in order to promote competition, reduce barriers to entry for new firms, and
prevent cross-subsidization of enterprises within firms. The break-up of
Af The current tariff schedule contains a third coluom which is applicable to those nations not granted HFN
status. The average tariff is much higher, estimated at 28.2 percent. However with the signing of the
trade agreement with the USA there is no country which falls into this categor.



- 16 -
state firms is also considered a necessary step toward the privatization of
enterprises. The process of demonopolization was started in 1990 and
accelerated in April 1991 on the basis of a decision by the Council of
Ministers. Within agriculture, most State Trusts of the former central supply
and distributors network were abolished on November 14, 1990. Most of these
units have undergone a first round of restructuring, which entailed
establishing independent 3nterprises and the closure of administrative
headquarters. The new units are beginning to establish their corporate
identities and are being encouraged to compete. Proposals to demonopolize the
tobacco and grain Trusts are currently being considered and should be
finalized soon. In industry, as of April 1991 some 130 industrial
conglomerates and trusts had been identified for demonopolization of which
plans for breaking-up 86 firms are at various stages of completion. The
program developed by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Services (MITS) calls
for the respective decentralization and demonopolization of the remaining
conglomerates and trusts by end-1991. In domestic trade, the break-up of
conglomerates and trusts has been largely completed, and restrictions on
trading have been lifted for almost all products. Major progress has also
been made in the decentralization and demonopolization of firms in transport,
construc.ion industry, and tourism.
50.      In breaking-up the large state firms, steps have been taken to ensure
that critical technological linkages were not impaired, that the cross-
subsidization of enterprises was avoided, and that overhead costs were reduced
by dismantling the firms' central administrative organizations. As part of
decentralization and demonopolization, further progress needs to made in
improving the management of the new enterprises by appointing the majority of
board members to assure proper representation of the ownership interests of
the State. Newly established enterprises facing difficulties will have to
develop restructuring programs demonrtrating their viability, or face
liquidation and sale of assets. The break-up of large firms by itself is not
expected to create a sufficiently competitive environment in Bulgaria,
particularly in abolishing certain product-specific or regional monopolies
(especially for agricultural goods). To this effect, emphasis is placed on
the program of import competition and dismantling of food monopolies.
51.      State or private monopolies will be controlled in accordance with the
Law on Protection of Competition, which was enacted on May 2, 1991, as a
central component of the regulatory framework for private sector development.
The Government will further develop the legal and institutional framework for
the protection of competition so that it can be operational by end-1991,
itncluding a Competition Commission with the necessary autonomy, power and
resources (including staff), and courts appropriately strengthened to handle
these new types of cases.
3. Private Sector Development
52.      The authorities consider the development of an efficient and large
private sector to be central to their reform program. They acknowledge the
difficulties involved, particularly given the small size of the existing



- 17 -
private sector. In response, the authorities have developed a strategy
comprised of three principal components: (i) developing an incentive and
regulatory framework conducive to, and supportive of, private sector growth;
(ii) encouraging the development of a modern banking system capable of
supporting the emerging private sector; and (iii) privatizing state-owned
ass.ets - including agricultural land; small enterprises, retail outlets and
tourist facilities; and large enterprises. The authorities have also
attempted to create a "level playing field' for business activity in Bulgaria
by introducing measures such as price liberalization, trade reform, subsidy
reduction, and reform of the tax system to abolish the favorable position of
SEs. So far, progress in removing legal barriers to new private businesses
has been impressive. A far-reaching Agricultural Land Law, which creates the
framework for private land ownership, has been adopted, and the regulatory
framework for the privatization of small establishments and the break-up of
large state firms has been developed. Progress in the areas of banking and
the privatization of large firms has been slower. Details of the components
of the strategy are given below.
(a) The Regulatory Framework
53.      At the macroeconomic level, the measures that have recently been
taken in the areas of price liberalization, the foreign exchange system and
international trade represent major steps towards creating an appropriate
environment for efficient private sector activity. These initiatives have
been supported at the microeconomic level by the removal of major constraints
on labor mobility--particularly with respect to restrictions on housing--and
employment limits, abolishing restrictions on the allocation of bank credit,
and allowing private firms to register under modern corporate forms (including
partnerships, limited liability companies and joint-stock companies). The
Government has also put in place legal provisions to promote direct foreign
investment: e.g., enterprises with foreign participation (which may reach
100 percent) can lease land and other immovable property for up to 70 years
and may be granted tax incentives.
54.      To create a positive environment for private sector development, the
Government has focussed on developing an appropriate legal framework for
business activity and the institutions needed for its effective and fast
implementation. The first priority is the new Constitution, which is expected
to be adopted in the coming months, and which will, inter alia, protect
private property as inviolable and guarantee free economic initiativ:j by
private agents.
55.      The Government has further prepared a comprehensive package of
economic reform laws. A first group of laws will clarify property rights.
Such rights, freely transferable and protected from infringement by strong
property laws and well-functioning property registration and court systems,
are considered the cornerstone of a market economy. The highest priority is
given to the development of a new property rights system, including
(i) redefinition of the concept of State property, of the scope of its
application and of the exercise of related rights, (ii) clarification of
rights of previous owners whose property was nationalized or otherwise



- 18 -
confiscated, and (iii) establishment or rtrengthening of mechianisms and
institutions for the transfer, registration, protection and enforcement of
property rights. In this context, the National Assembly has already adopted
an Agricultural Land Law (see paras. 73-74 below) and other property-related
laws are expected to be submitted to the National Assembly by the end of 1991
(see paras. 73-88 cn privatization and State Enterprise restructuring).
56.      A second group of business-related laws would reinforce and further
develop the reforms initiated with Decree 56 and other legislation enacted in
1989 and 1990.' In this context, new laws have already been enacted on
accounting, protection of competition, foreign investment, as well as a
commercial law ( which came into effect on July 1, 1991), which covers
commercial activities, including incorporation, functioning and liquidation of
companies, and auditing requirements. Other laws that are expected to be
submitted to the National Assembly over the next few months include laws
dealing with taxes, budgeting and expenditure control, banking, public
procurement, intellectual property, cooperatives, social security,
environmental protection, as well as laws on the legal profession (court
system, lawyers, etc.), local government, and public auditing. It is
important that adequate attention be paid to the implementation and
enforcement of these new laws, including the establishment or strengthening of
the institutions responsible for their implementation.
57.      A new foreign investment law establishing the principle of equal
treatment of foreign investors relative to national investors was passed on
May 17, 1991. In implementing this law, the Government will not introduce
restrictions on foreign investment in sectors other than those explicitly
mentioned in the law (defense, banking, insurance, real estate and natural
resources). In these areas, foreign investment projects will require a
license. The details of the foreign investment regime, such as the procedures
for the repatriation of funds and the administrative responsibilities for
implementation of the new law, will be clarified in the implementation
regulations. The Government also intends to facilitate international
arbitration for the settlement of disputes arising between foreign investors
and the Bulgarian public sector. To this effect, the Government is
considering adhering to the Exit Convention of 1965 (establishing ICSID).
Furthermore, in the context of an overall foreign investment strategy, the
Government plans to review and assess incentives granted to foreign investors
relative to advantages granted to Bulgarian investors and to the treatment
granted to foreign investors by other countries in the region.
58.      In order to prepare a consistent body of legislation, the Government
has established a Council for Normative Acts at the Council of Ministers to
develop legislative priorities and coordinate technical assistance. The
Government has requested the Bank to provide legal expertise in support of the
Council via the TAP.
/ In January 1980, when it was adopted, Decree 56 represented a radical break with the past. It
introduced a comprehensive legal framework for SEs and private companiee. and has been amended
repeatedly to provide a more liberal framerork. Many of the business related lws mentioned here are
designed to replace parts of Decree 56.



- 19 -
59.      While many of the formal constraints to private sector development
have been removed, difficulties are likely to persist due to the small size
and immature nature of the domestic private sector and the continuation of
past practices of public institutions. In this respect, the Government will
carry out a review during the second half of 1991 to analyze the remaining
barriers to private sector activity and to develop an action plan to remove
them. For example, measures will need to be taken to reduce to less than one
monuth the delays for registration of new businesses, which currently may take
over 'i-5 months. Also, a review will be carried out of the feasibility of
creating or promoting business advisory services to provide assistance to
small businesses on prevailing legal, accounting, tax and other matters
(e.g., management skills development, technical information, norms and
standards, etc.).
(b) Banking Sector Refonm
60.      The authorities recognize that the financial system is
underdeveloped and ill-equipped to serve a market economy. In response, they
intend to mundertake a comprehensive restructuring of the sector. The major
issues to be addressed include: (i) the legal and regulatory framework;
(ii) the overall structure of the baniing system; (iii) the large number of
non-performing loans and undercapitalization of most banks; (iv) the
organization and management of banks; and (v) state ownership of banks;
61.      Legal and Retglatory Framework.  In this area, substantial progress
has been achieved already. The law on the Bulgarian National Bank, confirming
the introduction of a two-tier banking system and the independence of the
Central Bank from the Treasury, was adopted by the Grand National Assembly in
June 1991 and is expected to be enacted in July 1991. The draf* of the law of
Banks and Credit Activity (Banking Law), allowing universal as well as
specialized banking, has been presented to the Assembly, and is expected to be
enacted no later than February 1992. Enabling regulations to these laws wUll
be issued soon after their enactment. To ensure the stability of the banking
system, the Banking Supervision Department within BNB is in the process of
designirg banking supervision standards suited to a modern banking system. It
is anticipated that regular on-site and off-site inspections using these new
standards will begin at the latest by end-1991. BNB will develop its banking
supervision capabilities with assistance from international agencies. A new
Accounting Law, applying to both enterprises and financial institutions,
entered into force in April 1991, and a corresponding Chart of Accounts for
banks is being prepared for introduction in 1991. Also a Securities Law is
being prepared and is expected to be enacted, by the Grand National Assembly,
within the next few months.
62.      Restructuring of she Banking System.  A process of establishing a
two-tier banking system started in 1987, with the creation of seven new banks
to which BNB transferred its investment loan portfolio and some of its
branches. The process continued in 1989/90, with the transformation of the
remaining BNB branches into independent commercial banks and the transfer of
the foreign exchange control function from the Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank



- 20 -
(BFTB) to BNB. The banking system currently comprises of 71 operating banks,
including four specialized institutions and two private banks established in
1990. All banks, with the exception of the State Savings Bank (SSB), have
been converted into joint stock companies.
63.      Considering the size of the economy, BuLgaria has too many banking
units. Many of them are too small to benefit from economies of scale, have a
local monopoly and exhibit an unhealthy regional and/or sectoral concentration
of their loan portfolios as well as strong linkages with other financial and
non-financial enterprises. Theib branch network is insufficiently developed.
Household deposits and credit remain concentrated in SSB, one of the largest
bank in the country.
64.      To address these issues and to provide a 'blueprint" for the future
development of the banking system, the Government intends to launch a "Study
on Structural Issues of the Banking System" in 1991. The study will be
financed under the TAP. In addition, the Government plans to set up a
temporary and self-financing holding company (Bank Consolidation Company -
BCC) by end-November 1991, which will manage the bank restructuring and
consolidation process, taking into consideration the recommendations of the
above mentioned study.
65.      The major initial function of BCC will be to organize a merger
program, intended to reduce the large number of weak financial institutions to
no more than about ten economically sized entities. To this end, the shares
of all banks (except those of SSB), presently held by BNB and other
institutions with majority Government shareholdings, will be transferred to
BCC and replaced by BCC's own shares. SSB will not participate in this
program; decisions on its future role and organization will be taken
separately, based on the recommendations of the Study on Structural Issues.
For the development and implementation of the program, including the grouping
of banks that should be merged and the legal and organizational requirements
for carrying out the mergers, BCC will avail itself of the services financed
under the TAP. In its first operations, BCC is expected to concentrate on
institutions that are unable to comply with the requirements of the new
prudential banking regulations, including capital adequacy. The transfer of
shares to BCC is expected to be completed by end-January 1992. In the
meantime, BNB intends to apply strict criteria for the licensing of new banks
and limit such licenses to institutions that will provide substantial net
foreign exchange inflows and new banking technology and skills.
66.      The scheme described above has the advantages of: (i) clearly
identifying a responsible agent to organize and implement the merger program;
(Ui) concentrating the voting power in this single agent, thus facilitating
the mergers and the future bank restructuring proceass; (iii) introducing the
possibility of capital gains for shareholders, due to the potential success of
the consolidation effort; and (iv) breaking the interlocking relationships
that currently exist between the banks, their shareholders and their clients.
67.      Financial Restructuring of Banks.  The ultimate objective of the
Government's banking system reform program is the creation of efficiently



^ 21 -
managed, privately owned and profitable financial Institutions. However, many
banks suffer from doubtful or non-performing loans against which no or
inadequate provisions have been made, and from a weak capital base.
Therefore, many banks will need financial restructuring, including portfolio
clean up and recapitalization, to prepare them for privatization. The voting
power concentrated in BCC will facilitate this process.
68.      At present, the amount of non-performing loans is estimated at Leva
17 billion. This amount appears high (10 percent of 1991 GDP) and could
increase if additional loans become non-performing (in many casas due to the
loss of traditional CHEA markets). However, the significance of the problem
of non-performing loans should not be overemphasized, considering that:
(i) part of them may become performing (for example, allowing the Bulgarian
energy companies to charge cost-covering tariffs could result in about Leva 5
to 6 billion of energy loans becoming performing); and (li) inflationary
developments have already reduced and will continue to reduce the real value
of non-performing loans. The possible solutions to the problem of bad loans
have been evaluated in this context and the following strategy for the
financial restructuring of the banks has been designed:
(a) To achieve the clean up of the banks' portfolios, the Government
will: (i) formally guarantee to the banks the principal and
interest payments for all non-performing loans granted to state
enterprises until end-1990, plus any interest capitalized on
such loans since January 1, 1991; and (ii) provide additional
guarantees if and when additional bad loans (granted before end-
1990) are identified by BNB's Banking Supervision Department.
In total, the guarantees will cover both the loans that were
transferred to the banks by BNB at the time of their
establishment and the loans granted by the banks before bank
managements were allowed to make independent credit decisions.
In order to alleviate possible cash flow problems resulting from
the capitalization of interest on loans, the banks will be
allowed to capitalize interest payments on BNB's deposits in an
amount equal to the capitalized interest on loans. The banks
will remain responsible for the collection of the guaranteed
loans and will receive an adequate commission on any ovordue
amounts collected on these loans as an incentive to take action.
(b) In parallel to the above, BNB intends to initiate reviews of the
loan portfolios of the banks as soon as its Banking Supervision
Department becomes familiar with the new operational guidelines.
In this activity, the department will be assisted by
international experts who will also provide on-the-Job training
in banking superv'.sion, including on-site inspection techniques.
In addition, for banks participating in the merger program,
audits of their opening accounts, according to international
accounting standards and by independent external auditors, will
be required through prudential regulation as soon as their
merger is completed. For banks that do not participate in the
merger program, audits of their 1991 accounts will be required



- 22 -
by May 1992 (in the past, the banks w.ire not audited by
independent external auditors). Banking regulation will also
require that all audits include portfolio reviews classifying
the banks' portfolios.
(c) The portfolio reviews will classify part of the non-performing
loans as uncollectible and recommend write-offs. However, the
final and total loan losses will be determined in the course of
state enterprise restructuring and privatization (supported by
other components of the SAL). On this basis, the Government, in
consultation with the banks, BCC and the Privatization Agency,
will decide which of the guaranteed loans are uncollectible and
need to be written off. The write-offs will be made against BNB
deposits that have been made available to the banks to finance a
large part of their loans to state enterprises. BNB will be
compensated with government bonds. For write-offs exceeding BNB
deposits, the banks will be compensated with government bonds
with long-term maturities and variable market interest rates.
The fiscal burden resulting from issuing government bonds will
be distributed over several years because the bonds will be
issued successively as and when the losses are identified, i.e.,
over an estimated period of 3-5 years, and they may have a
maturity period of up to 10 years. The fiscal costs during
these years are expected to be partially covered by the proceeds
from the privatization of state enterprises.
(d) The financial audits and portfolio reviews will also determine
the banks' basic financial viability, and, on this basis,
strengthening of the banks' capital base may be necessary to
ensure that they comply with prudential regulations and that
they become financially viable and sufficiently attractive for
privatization. The Government intends to decide, case by case,
which banks will be recapitalized and whether recapitalization
is needed before privatization or should be left to the new
private owners of the banks. The resources needed for this
purpose are expected to be recovered partly from the proceeds of
the privatization of the banks and, if necessary, from the
privatization of non-financial enterprises. However, the need
for fiscal support cannot be excluded. To control these fiscal
costs, the Government will suspend dividend payments by state
banks for 1991 and until a decision on the banks'
recapitalization needs and plans has been taken.
(e) To avoid bank portfolios becoming recontaminated, the banks will
be prohibited from lending to state enterprises that are in
arrears with any of :he banks, with the exception of loans
financed from funds provided by the Government/BNB specifically
for this purpose and carrying a formal government guarantee. To
facilitate the implementation of this policy and for general use
by the banking system, BNB will establish a Credit Information
Service. For any other lending, the banks will bear the full



- 23 -
credit risk, and bank managers will be responsible for their
independent credit decisions. However, safeguards will be built
in through strict enforcement of banking regulations which will
provide for adequate provisioning against doubtful and non-
performing loans.
69.      Institutional Development and Support Services.  The Bulgarian banks
are not only financially weak, but also lack the institutional and managerial
capacity to effectively operate in a market-oriented system. Therefore, as a
further step to the consolidation and restructuring of banks, the Government
will encourage strengthening of bank management, organization, policies, and
procedures. In this connection it will also be necessary to implement
institutional changes with respect to SSB's organization and functions, in
particular household and housing finance. The Government intends to
facilitate these developments through the Study on Structural Issues of the
Banking System, the provision of direct technical support services and
institutional development studies on individual banks, subsequent to each
completed consolidation. The latter studies will identify the banks' major
institutional (non-portfolio) constraints and recommend detailed action plans
as a basis for their development into market-oriented, competitive
institutions. They will be carried out by teams of experts from international
management consulting firms. This work will begin by end-1991 and be
completed by March 1993. Substantial progress in implementing the measures of
institutional strengthening and development is expected to be achieved within
a three-year period.
70.      Since the restructuring and consolidation of the banking system needs
to be completed within a relatively short period, the authorities intend to
make the following initial support services available to the banks as soon as
possible, but not later than October 1991: (i) Management advisory services
by resident consultants to provide practical short-term assistance on mergers
and on issues that arise in the every-day management of banks;
(ii) preparation of a feasibility study for the establishment of a Bankers'
Training Institute and training of trainers and bank personnel; and
(iii) preparation of a feasibility study for the establishment of a bank
payments clearing and settlement system. Financing for these activities as
well as for the institutional development studies will be available from the
World Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project and other sources.
71.      Privatization of Banks.  The strategy discussed above does not rely
on private ownership as an immediate condition for banking system reform.
However, the Government recognizes that the privatization of the banks is the
best guarantee for achieving effective management, competition and efficient
resource allocation and it will allow new private banks (including foreign
banks) to be created during the transition period where appropriate. It is
anticipated that having passed the phases of merger, financial restructuring
and basic institutional development, the existing Bulgarian banks will be more
attractive to private shareholders. The temporary involvement of a state
holding company (BCC) will serve not only to correct the weaknesses of the
existing banking system, but may also reconcile other obstacles to
privatization.



- 24 -
72.      In principle, the privatization of banks would be carried out by BCC
which, in consultation with the banks, would sell its bank shares to private
buyers. In this respect, the Government will implement the following
strategy, monitored by BNB's Banking Supervision Department: (i) the banks
(with immediate effect) and BCC will not be allowed to sell any shares or
enter into any acquisition or joint venture agreements before the merger
program has been implemented (justified exceptions may be approved by BNB);
(ii) once the merger program has been implemented, BCC and the banks will be
free to sell shares, or to enter into joint ventures or acquisition agreements
with foreign parties, subject to an adequate valuation of the banks' shares;
and (iii) the sale of shares to domestic private investors will be allowed,
subject to the condition stated under (ii) and after the banks have been
financially restructured, their accounts have been audited by external
independent auditors, based on international accounting standards, and the
Banking Supervision Department of BNB is generally satisfied that the bank in
question is financially viable. Any sales of shares will be effected in
compliance with the new Securities Law. BCC would use the proceeds from the
sale of bank shares to repurchase its own shares and this would terminate its
operations and existence. It is difficult to predict when the banks will be
ready for privatization. The process is expected to be a gradual one, and
substantial activity in this area may start developing in the second half of
1992.
(c) Privatization
73.      On February 22, 1991, Parliament passed an Agricultural Land Law
which establishes the regulatory framework through which land will be returned
to its previous owners or sold.7 Land will be returned on the basis of
ownership rights established according to the Law of Land Ownership of
April 9, 1946. The new Agricultural Land Law represents a political
compromise which is supported by the major parties, including the Agrarian
Party. The law stipulates that the returned land cannot be sold for three
years (in order to curb speculation) and that a ceiling of 20 ha (low lands)
and 30 ha (mountainous regions) will be placed on the returned land holdings.
In order to encourage the development of the land market, and the creation of
sustainable farms, leasing of land will be permitted. The law also defines
ownership rights of cooperative farm members to other assets. On
April 25, 1991, the Council of Ministers approved the implementing regulations
to the Agricultural Land Law, which completed the necessary legislative
framework for clarification and restoration of land ownership rights. In the
meantime, land owners have been registering their claims with the
municipalities based on cadastral records and other relevant documents. The
implementation of the Law is being supported by a ECU 5 million comprehensive
technical assistance package financed by the EC-PHARE program. In addition,
part of the domestic budgetary costs of implementing the land reform will be
j/ The return of agricultural land to private owners is expected to proceed at a taster pace than other
privatisation measures , partly because, even under the previous system, land owners did retain formal
title to the land. However, they lost aUl control of land use and the associated benefits, when the
land was collectivised without compensation.



- 25 -
financed via the local counterpart funds generated from USAID's cofinancing of
the proposed SAL. The Government has set an ambitious target of returning
about 20 percent of the total cultivated land to private owners by December
1991 and substantially completing the process by December 1992.
74.      The authorities have stressed the importance of this law and their
commitment to implement it as quickly as possible. They believe that private
farmers will be better motivated to increase productivity and incomes than
under the old system. They also believe that some private farmers may well
decide to join genuine cooperatives once their property rights are clearly
defined and once a Cooperative Law based on the principles of voluntary
association and freedom of choice is passed.
75.      The Government has also made significant progress in initiating the
process of privatizing small establishments. Sales through auctions of:
(i) assets of enterprises; and (ii) small units or establishments under the
auspices of larger firms, are allowed under legislation adopted earlier this
year, and initial sales of enterprise assets have already taken place. The
Government has also initiated a program for sale of small state-owned retail
establishments and taken the necessary preparatory steps to start pilot
auctions--including the identification of establishments for sale, the
engagement of asset valuators, and the advertisement of such establishments
for auction. The Government completed the first pilot auctions--gasoline
stations and shops--in June 1991. The majority of small establishments,
however, are under the control of the municipalities rather than the central
Government. In response, the Government has requested the municipalities to
prepare action programs for the auctioning of retail establishments presently
under their management, while the Government will provide them with clear
guidelines and authority to carry out these auctions. A significant number of
these establishments are expected to be auctioned before the end of 1991.
Based on the experience with the initial auctions, procedures will be reviewed
and streamlined.   Financing arrangements are being developed to facilitate
the purchase of small assets and units by private individuals and businesses.
76.      With respect to the privatization of large state firms, progress has
been slower. This partly reflects the contiruing debate within Bulgaria on
the objectives and strategy for privatization, and partly the absence of the
necessary institutional framework. For example, although a Privatization
Agency was established in February 1991, its mandate and role relative to the
line ministries is still not clear.
77.      To overcome these institutional uncertainties, the Government has set
up a Special Committee, headed by a Deputy Prime Minister, to guide the
initial stages of the large privatization program. In the coming months, the
Government intends to adopt an enabling framework for the privatization of
large enterprises and for the sale of parts of enterprises through means other
than auctions. This framework will address three key areas: strategy
formulation, legislation, and an implementation program. The preparation of
the overall privatization strategy will be the responsibility of the Special
Committee. The strategy will delineate the pace and modalities of
privatization in all sectors of the economy and for all sizes and types of



- 26 -
enterprises, and outline the institutional arrangements for privatization.
The strategy is expected to reflect a flexible and multi-track approach
regarding: the forms of privatization (including leasing and concession
arrangements, and full and partial privatizations); the procedures for
initiating privatizations (including privatizations initiated by the state, by
enterprises themselves, and by buyers); the procedures for transacting and
monitoring privatizations; and the terms of sale.
78.      The main objectives and mechanisms of this strategy will be reflected
in a Privatization Law, to be submitted to the National Assembly before end-
1991. The detailed procedures, regulations and institutional arrangements for
the implementation of the Law would also be drafted by end-1991. As part of
this activity, the Government would develop a program for the implementation
of the privatization strategy. The program will outline the detailed tasks
and timetable, the responsibility of various governmental bodies, and details
on the enterprises to be prepared for privatization in 1992. Preparatory work
will be carried out at the enterprise level during the second half of 1991, in
order for pilot privatizations of large enterprises to begin as soon as the
legal and institutional arrangements have been set up. Considerable technical
assistance will be required to achieve the goals of the privatization program.
In this regard, the Government has initiated an external assistance program,
designed and financed by the Bank and other donors under the TAP, to help
launch the auction program of small establishments, develop the enabling
framework for large privatizations, and strengthen the Privatization Agency.
4. State Enterprise Restructuring and Euiergy Pricing
79.      Given the size of the state-owned sector, it is clear that in the
near term, many State Enterprises (SEs) will remain under government control.
The Government therefore attaches great importance to increasing the
competitiveness and efficiency of SEs, while protecting the nascent private
sector. This necessitates that action be taken to enforce State ownership
rights, that management practices are adopted which enable SEs to function
efficiently, and that the business operations of SEs and private firms are
placed on an equal footing. It will also be necessary to restructure those
SEs which will be viable in the medium term. In the meantime, these
objectives will need to be achieved within a framework which imposes strict
financial discipline on SEs. One of the main components of maintaining the
level of budgetary subsidies at an appropriate level relates to the issue of
energy pricing.
(a) OwnershiR and Management of State Enterprises
80.      According to the Bulgarian Constitution and law, SEs are owned by the
State. In practice, however, management boards and managers in most
enterprises are elected, directly or indirectly, by their employees. In many
cases, the Government has also not used its right to appoint its
representatives in the management boards of SEs. As in other countries, the
self-management of firms has created ambiguity and confusion among the
interests of the owners, management, and workers of enterprises, and has often
led to the pursuit of short-term goals rather than the long-term viability of



- 27 -
firms. The Government therefore intends to develop an action program for
improving the oversight and management of SEs, with emphasis on measures to:
(i) develop an appropriate institutional framework for exercising State
ownership rights in SEs, (ii) develop boards of directors of SEs as strategic
organs and improve management capacity; and (iii) convert SEs into joint-
stock companies. The Ministry of Industry, Trade and Services has been
charged with developing this program during the second half of 1991, and has
set up a committee involving representatives of the other relevant Ministries.
81.      To introduce appropriate corporate governance systems for SEs, the
Government would appoint the majority of the members of the supervisory boards
of SEs. In this respect, the Government has made it clear that Article 24
decree 56, which specifies that the State should have majority representation
on the Board of Directors of SEs, is effective and overrules any previous
guidelines that may have been issued. To help implement these arrangements,
the Government intends to prepare a program by end-1991 for the development of
effective supervisory boards of directors of SEs and start its implementation
from January 1992, including development of: (i) methods for identification
and selection of suitable board members; (ii) remuneration and incentives for
board members as well as sanctions for improper practices; and (iii) training
of board members, and candidate board members. The Government will also
develop appropriate incentive systems and training programs for SE managers.
The Government has initiated an external technical assistance program, partly
financed by the TAP, to help design and implement the above measures.
82.      To prepare SEs for privatization, the Government will start, in the
second half of 1991, the conversiGn of larger SEs into joint-stock companies
(JSCs), with the State as sole shareholder, as well as other company forms
such as limited liability companies for smaller enterprises. To facilitate
this process, the National Assembly has abolished the previous moratorium on
such conversions, which enables the sectoral ministries to approve such
conversions on a case-by-case basis.
83.      The Government also intends to review existing laws, regulations and
practices to determine whether they restrict the business operations of SEs.
For example, the existing Labor Code will be reviewed, with a view to
developing measures to enable and encourage SEs to introduce compensation and
wage systems--within the Government's overall wage policies--for both managers
and workers, linked to their individual performance. SEs will be permitted
and encouraged to purchase from the lowest price source, whether public or
private, and to sell their products in the most profitable markets available.
Similarly, laws and regulations which give preferences to SEs over privately-
owned firms will be reviewed and abolished.
84.      In the meantime, it is recognized that strict financial discipline
needs to be maintained in the state enterprise sector. The Government
considers the enforcement of bankruptcy procedures and the initiation of
liquidations of unviable firms an important component of financial discipline.
This will require well-functioning bankruptcy procedures to permit an
efficient process of liquidating unviable firms. Decree 56 contained
provisions for bankruptcy, which have not been applied. New bankruptcy



- 28 -
procedures have been further elaborated in the recently adopted Commercial
Law.
85.      While those aspects of financial discipline related to wage controls,
bank credit ceilings and reduction in budget subsidies are explicit parts of
the ongoing stabilization program, further attention will be given to
monitoring the financial position of enterprises, including inter-enterprise
credit and arrears. In tU.is regard, the Government has agreed to set up a
monitoring system within the Ministry of Finance which would provide early
warning signals for SEs in financial difficulties, as the basis for corrective
measures. The Government has started to attract the necessary external
technical assistance to help develop such a performance monitoring system, and
has agreed with the Bank on the terms of reference for such assistance. The
Government would develop corrective measures in the second half of 1991 to
contain the possible growth in arrears on inter-enterprise credits.
86.      The rapid improvement of the enterprise accounting system is critical
for improving the financial information of enterprises and the accountability
of enterprise managers for their actions and results. As an important first
step, the National Assembly adopted a new Accounting Law in January 1991, the
implementation of which started in April 1991. In the second half of 1991,
the Ministry of Finance will develop a medium-term program for implementing
the new system, and for development of the accounting and auditing
professions. For this purpose, it has initiated the necessary external
technical assistance program.
(b) Industrial Restructuring
87.      The industrial sector is facing a major crisis as a result of the
drastic changes in external market conditions, the drop in domestic demand,
and the rapid changes in the Bulgarian business environment (including the
combined effects of price liberalization, subsidy cuts, and the tight credit
policies). The industrial sector will need time to adjust to the new economic
environment and many enterprises are experiencing severe liquidity problems.
To reduce the costs to the economy, including subsidies to non-viable
enterprises, the Government has started to develop policies for restructuring
the industrial sector and a strategy for restructuring specific enterprises
facing difficulties--including closure of non-viable enterprises. The Bank is
providing the resources and expertise needed to obtain technical assistance in
both of these important areas. A screening process will be established to
identify those enterprises which could be privatized as soon as the necessary
legal and institutional framework is in place, those which should be
restructured prior to privatization, and those which should be liquidated.
The Ministry of Industry, Trade and Services, through preliminary analyses,
has tentatively identified about 30 enterprises for privatization and about
20 enterprises for liquidation. The Government is expected to play an active
role only in restructuring those enterprises that will remain as state
enterprises in the medium-term. It would not, therefore, interfere with the
privatization process.



- 29 -
88.      A number of industrial branches are in such a critical situation that
special attention is warranted. These include coal mining, ferrous and non-
ferrous metallurgy including ore mining, some divisions of chemical and
petrochemical industries, heavy machine building, and electronics. The
Government is intending to carry out a comprehensive review of these branches
during 1992, in order to develop strategies for branch restructuring in each
case. It has initiated an external technical assistance program, partly
financed by the TAP, to help with the preparation of a sector strategy for
restructuring, development of branch- and enterprise-specific restructuring
strategies, and establishment or promotion of institutions that could
facilitate the restructuring process.
(c) Special Actions for the Energy Sector
89.      Bulgaria's energy problems in the areas of supply, pricing and
institutions are daunting and special actions are therefore required for the
restructuring of SEs in the energy sector. Energy supply problems escalated
into a crisis in 1990, largely due to the disintegration of the CMEA trade
arrangement, the Gulf War, and a severe shortage of foreign exchange. The
country's imports of crude oil dropped sharply from 12.6 million tons in 1989
to only 7.7 million in 1990, resulting in economy-wide oil shortages and
contraction of energy-intensive industries. The previous system of
administered energy prices protected domestic consumers from changes in world
energy prices and contributed to the creation of energy-intensive and
inefficient industry. In addition, it difficult to formulate and implement a
long-term energy strategy since there is no single government agency in charge
of the overall coordination and supervision of the sector.
90.     WItile there is no easy solution to tl.e supply problems described,
much can be done in the areas of pricing and institution building, to
encourage a more rational allocation and use of energy resources. This in
turn would enhance the necessary process of structural change, away fron
oversized, energy-inefficient industries, towards a more balanced economic
structure, consistent with Bulgaria's comparative advantages.
91.      The Governmen- has already started addressing the energy problems,
mainly in the areas of pricing policy. Government administered energy prices
on various energy products were increased first in July 1990 by 100 percent,
followed by a further increase from 100 percent to 600 percent in February
1991 (see table 1). Despite these large increases, energy prices were still
below international levels, partly because it was unclear what the exchange
rate would be, and partly to protect households.



- 30 -
Table 1: BULGARIA - Energy Prices. June 1990 - June 1991
Increase
, lf90               1991              1991
June    July       February  June    FebruarY  Junge
(In leva Ver unit)           (In nercentaMe)
Gasoline A-86 (ton)
Industrial use             420      580        2150    4715       271    119
Household use              1240    2200        4950    9430        125     9S
Electricity (1000 kWh)
Industrial use              52       52         271     461       421      70
Household use               38       38         167      284       339     70
Heating (1000 kcal)
Industrial use              18       18         165     281       817      70
Household use               10       10          50       85       400     70
Propane-butane gas (ton)
Industrial use             650      650        2650    N.A.        308   N.A.
Household use              1000    1000        3000     .A.        200   N.A.
Brown coal (ton)
Industrial use              20       20         285     485       1325     70
Household use               28       28         210      375      650      ,S
Source. Data provided by the Bulgarian authorities.
/B Following the June 1991 price increases, the retail price of gasoline is at international levels. Other
energy products have been moved close to world prices or the domestic cost of supply, and are consistent
with the budget subsidy of 3 percent of GDP.
92.      With respect to gasoline, the Government has privatized some retail
outlets and will continue to do so in the near future. As a transitional
measure the Government established a new "ceiling" price for gasoline of Leva
9430 per ton in June 1991, an additional increase of 91 percent over the
February price. As this price is based on an exchange rate of Leva 18.5 per
US dollar the Government anticipates that the domestic price will stay at or
below this ceiling. Once the market becomes competitive, prices will be
decontrolled. The price of electricity, coal and heat were also raised in
June by an average of 70 percent.
93.      As of April 1991, energy prices were being determined by the newly
established National Commission on Prices (NCP), based on current world prices
or the domestic cost of production, plus a margin for profit. The NCP
recommendations are submitted to the Council of Ninisters for final approval,
before becoming effective. While the current approach to energy pricing is
broadly acceptable, the Government needs to clarify the methodology used to
determine what is an acceptable profit, and to institute price adjustments on
a regular basis to avoid prices becoming too far out of line with market
developments. Finally, the absence of long-term coordination and supervision
in the energy sector is the main institutional weakness. The Bank discussed
with the authorities the proposal of bringing the various institutions in the
sector (e.g., Committee on Energy, Committee on Geology, etc.) under the



- 31 -
umbrella of one body (this could be Ministry of Industry, Trade and Services),
to be supervised at the Deputy Minister level. The authorities are
considering this, along with other solutions, and intend to take action by the
end of year.
5. Social Safetv Net and Labor Markets
94,      Prior to the economic reform of 1990, many of the main elements of
,he social safety net in Bulgaria were already in place, including
unemployment benefits, pensions, family support and health care facilities.
However, the structure of much of the system was inappropriate for an emerging
market economy, and expenditure plans were inconsistent with needs,
particularly the expected increase in unemployment and the decline in real
incomes. In addition the decline in output and changes in the structure of
the tax base can result in a severe reduction in fiscal revenues. Thus the
demands on the social safety net increase sharply at precisely the time when
resources are most scarce. Consequently, it is important that measures to
ensure effective poverty relief are compatible with budgetary stringency by
targeting benefits tightly on the most needy individuals and families. To
mitigate the impact of restructuring upon individuals and their families, and
in the interests of continuing political support for the reforms, the
Government iL developing a safety net comprising of interrelated measures in
the areas of income support, employment services and creation, training,
education, and health.
95.      An additional implication of structural reform is the need to develop
the human capital base to generate and sustain a supply response. The
Government recognizes that significant structural change is required in the
education, training, and health sectors.
96.      Wage policy.  The Government's wage policy for the first part of 1991
was concerned primarily with ensuring tt-at iniflation was not fueled by undue
wage increases (see the earlier discussion in para. 28). From mid-1991 on,
the Government intends to adopt a system by which individual wages more
closely reflect differences in individual productiVity.
97.      Financing cash benefits.  Income support is provided through four
interlinked systems: unemployment and related benefit, financed mainly out of
contributions by employers; social insurance benefits, financed mainly out of
employer payroll contributions; social assistance (i.e. 'welfare'); and
price compensation, introduced in early 1991, which takes the form of flat-
rate monthly payments as compensation for the effects of price liberalization
and subsidy reduction.
98.      Given the acute budgetary resource constraint, poverty relief must be
achieved at minimum cost. The strategy for reform of the cash benefit system
is therefore twofold: taXgeting benefits tightly on the most needy; and
constructing incentives conducive to labor supply. The objective of gover&X
Xr1lf, however, remains paramount. To that end, Government has agreed to:
(a) provide income support not below subsistence through the package of
measures described below; (b) to ensure that during restructuring, residual



- 32 -
liability for financing benefits falls on the central government budget; and
(c) to provide sufficient resources for the effective administration and
delivery of benefits.
99.      inemnloyment and related benefiLts.  Under the provisions of the
Council of Ministers' Decree 57 of December 5, 1989, unemployment benefit is
payable at 100 percent of an individual's previous wage for the first month of
unemployment (payable by the employer), thereafter falling in stages to a
floor of 50 percent. With some exceptions, benefit is payable only to
indl.1duals who have lost their jobs. Currently, benefit is paid at the level
of the minimum wage, plus, in each case, 20 percent of the difference between
the minimum wage and the basic salary that the recipient earned in six months
prior to becoming unemployed.
100.     The current budgetary provision, mainly for unemployment benefit, but
also for training and retraining and various other costs, amounts to Leva
1.3 billion, or 0.9 percent of (IMF-estimated) GDP in 1991. Two thirds of
this expenditure is financed by a 3.75 percent employer payroll contribution,
the remainder coming from the state budget. Government estimates of the cost
of unemployment benefit assume 400,000 registered unemployed by the end of
1991, a December unemployment rate of over 10 percent, and an annual average
of 6.2 percent. Experience to date suggests that only about 50 percent of
individuals registering as unemployed are eligible for benefit (the official
assumption is 100 percent) ;' and further savings can be expected once the
reformed benefit structure (described in the previous paragraph) is
implemented. Both sets of factors suggest that the Employment Fund has
adequate cushioning against higher-than-programmed price developments.
101.     Given the likely numbers of unemployed, the Government intends to
target unemployment benefit by ensuring that unemployment benefit will be
payable only to individuals who have lost their job (in the case of new
entrants, particularly school leavers, an employment subsidy may be payable to
employers for a limited period) and strictly limiting the financial scope of
any tax preferences and interest subsidies to encourage employment. In
addition, the Government intends to move to a new unemployment system which
pays unemployment benefit at a flat rate not below subsistence and for a
12 months maximum.
102.     Social insurance.  The main social insurance benefits are pensions,
sick pay, maternity benefit and family allowance. Pensions are awarded on the
basis of age at retirement, length of service and previous earnings. Some
groups may retire as early as 50 (45 in the case of women); and most retirees
may work with no loss of pension. The Government is seeking to reduce early
retirement, in particular where receipt of pension is combined with continuing
work.
t Many mm enrante to the labor force. tbough registering an unemployed, are not eligible for
unemployment benefit.



- 33 -
103.     Sick pay is awarded at graduated rates, ranging from 70 to
100 percent of the individual's previous earnings from the first day of
absence from work, the entire cost of the benefit falling on the social
security budget.  In addition, a worker may stay at home looking after a sick
child for up to 60 days per year at 100 percent of his/her wage. The
Government intends to address the adverse incentives which arise from sick pay
for individuals and parents of sick children. The problem arises in part
because sick pay is more generous than unemployment benefit, so that
potentially unemployed individuals have an incentive to go on sick pay; and
since the benefit is paid out of public funds, employers have no incentive to
resist such claims. A similar problem, Mutatis MUtndis, arises in the case
of parents at home looking after sick children.
104.     Family allowance is payable at a rate of leva 30 per month per child
for a two child family. When combined with price compensation of leva 100 per
month per child, such support represents around 15 percent of the average wage
per child, a figure which is high by Western European standards.
105.     The social security budget for 1991 is currently under review since
major assumptions have changed since the start of the year. The revised
social security budget envisages revenue and expenditure of leva 13.5 billion,
about 9.2 percent of GDP, compared with leva 17.3 billion (11.8 percent of
GDP) in the original budget. The reason for the decrease is twofold: on the
revenue side, contribution rates were not increased as much as envisaged
earlier in the year; on the expenditure side, the cost of price compensation
was below budget assumptions. The revised social security budget, however,
takes no account of benefit changes which are anticipated but not yet enacted,
nor of revenue and expenditure changes resulting from the programmed price
path. Assessment of the adequacy of budgetary provision is therefore
problematic. The preliminary outcome for the first quarter of 1991 gives
grounds for caution. There were important revenue shortfalls because of a
sharper-than-expected fall in output, so that higher-than-budgeted transfers
from the state budget to the social security budget will almost certainly be
necessary, and a-tiozi if inflation for the rest of the year proves to be
above target. Close monitoring of economic developments and timely further
budgetary revision are therefore imperative.
106.     Given the impor.  ice of pensions in terms both of expenditure and of
the protection they provide for a particularly vulnerable group, targeting is
again vital. In the near-term, the Government has agreed to adhere during
1991 and 1992 to its current policy whereby the minimum pension (inclusive of
price compensation) is not below subsistence, and is fully protected against
price inflation. In the medium-term, the Government intends to introduce into
Parliament a law which: (a) use a stringent earnings test to determine
eligibility for a retirement pension; (b) phases in an equal retirement age
for men and women; (c) increases over time the minimum retirement age to not
less than 60; (d) ensures that disability pension is awarded only on medical
grounds; and (e) awards disability benefit or. the basis of the extent of
disability, but not on its cause. To improve the targeting of sick pay, the
Government intends to, (a) implement a system with a waiting period for



- 34 -
workers,' the remainder of the first four weeks of annual illness being paid
by the employer, and (b) change the system so that benefit for a parent absent
from work looking after a sick child is paid at a flat rate equal to the
minimum wage. The Government has also agreed, to adhere to its current policy
of not indexing family allowances. To ensure that family support is effective
and targeted, the Government will elaborate a review of family policy which
ensures a universal benefit compatible with budgetary restraint, supplemented
by income-tested family support.
107.     To further improve the incentive structure of present and future
pension arrangements, the Government intends to introduce annual pension
accrual factors which are more closely actuarial than current arrangements,'
and to introduce actuarially higher contributions for individuals who are
allowed to retire early.   The Government also intends to establish procedures
to improve the efficient planning and operation of pensions through consistent
treatment of contributions and benefits under the new income tax system, and
by ensuring that an} pension reform proposal is evaluated on the basis of
long-term projections (at least 50 years) under alternative assumptions about
economic and demographic factors.
108.     Social assistance.  In the past, social assistance was a benefit of
last resort mainly for the frail elderly, the handicapped, and families with
social problems. The system was organized at municipal level, though largely
financed with central government funds. In 1990, about 50 percent of social
assistance expenditure was on residential care for the elderly and
handicapped. The system has not previously been used to deliver income
support to a large number of people whose only major problem is inadequate
income. The Government is currently drafting legislation under which
eligibility is determined relative to two sets of criteria: first, per capita
income in the family must be less than 65 percent of the minimum wage; second,
the individual must fall into one of eight categories. The definition of
categories is tight; for instance, unemployed individuals become eligible for
social assistance only when they have exhausted their entitlement to
unemployment benefit.
109.     Budgetary provision for social assistance expenditure by local
governments is currently under review in the light of the inadequacy of the
original budgetary provision and higher-than-projected inflation during the
first quarter of 1991. Revised expenditure is leva 1.5 billion, about
1 percent of (IMF-estimated) GDP, compared with leva 0.4 billion in the
original budget. Despite this increase, likely developments in unemployment
and real wages suggest a remaining deficit of some leva 0.5 billion, a
shortfall of which the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs is aware.
V  I.e. the worker receives no sick pay in respect of (say) the first day of absence from work.
Ig/ The effect of this measure would be to increase pension entitlement by only a small percentage during
early years of service, but by a larger amount for later years of service, this giving an incentive to
defer retirement.



- 35 -
110.     The system of social assistance must adapt itself to cope with a new
client group -- unemployed individuals and their families whose entitlement to
unemployment benefit has expired, together with other individuals/families
whose income, from whatever cause, is very low. The group has two key
characteristics: it typically does not require highly individualized social
work; and it is large, making such individualized care impossible. What is
needed is a fairly automatic system of processing large numbers of
applications for benefit. To ensure that social assistance fulfills its
critical role as a benefit of last resort, Government has agreed to ensure
that the level of social assistance will not be allowed to fall below
subsistence, and eligibility for social assistance should depend primarily on
an income and wealth test. The second of these conditions is necessary so
that social assistance can, if necessary, offer additional support to
recipients of unemployment benefit or social insurance benefits. The
Government intends to take these measures by end-1991, when it will also have
completed a review of social assistance. This review will focus particularly
on the appropriateness of both contents of the 600-goods basket (as a minimal
poverty line), and a poverty line based on per capita income within the
family." It will also considering ways by which to minimize unemployment and
poverty traps.'2
;11.     Price compnensation.  In connection with price liberalization and the
removal of subsidies in early 1991, the Government introduced general income
payments to all citizens in the form of flat-rate monthly payments for
different groups, e.g. leva 270 per worker, leva 100 per child.
112.     Price compensation currently amounts to some leva 1.8 billion (about
1.2 per cent of IMF-estimated GDP). The benefit is delivered in roughly equal
shares by employers (as an addition to wages) and the general budget (through
the various cash benefit schemes). The latter arrangement constitutes a heavy
financial burden on the social security budget, and a continuation of this
policy during the initial stages of the reform will undoubtedly require
transfers from general revenues.
113.    The price compensation arrangements are clearly transitional.  There
are two reasons, however, why no condition is imposed about their removal
during the lifetime of the SAL. First, wage liberalization is part only of
the medium-term agenda (so that price compensation does not interfere with
market-determined wages). Second, price compensation not connected with wages
is channelled through the cash benefit system and hence can be awarded at
higher rates to groups more likely to experience poverty.
Uf A poverty line based on per capita income counts all family members equally. This is generous in
comparison with the usual procedure In the OECD, where the poverty line for a family, based on
'equivalent adults', gives maller weight to some family members, for instance younger children.
a/ To illustrate the point, consider a three-child family where the husband earns the average wage and the
wife is unemployed. Once the wife's entitlement to unemployment benefit aspites, the family becomes
eligible for social assistance. Under plausible assumptions the fmily is better off with a single
earner plus social assistance than it would be if the wife found a job (thereby losing entitlement to
social assistance).



- 36 -
114.     Corebu  canital sectors.  Bulgaria's education, training, science
and technology, a A health sectors are all extensively linked in various ways
to the previous ceatrally planned economy, and developed around large state
enterprises. Thus state enterprises provide scholarships to many higher
education students, are an Important source of research funding linked to
technology development, operate many types of training, and also run some
health facilities. In many respects, therefore, the restructuring and
privatization of the economy will necessitate far-reaching changes in the
operation and financing of the human capital sectors. In particular there
will be need to diversify sources of financing, change the organization and
management of services, and generally improve their relevance and efficiency
of operation. A number of activities under the Technical Assistance Project
will begin to address these issues, e.g., through studies of the concept of
institutional autonomy in higher education, of the diversification of sources
of financing in general education and vocational training, and of new methods
of funding scientific research, and through the development of improved health
management practices together with the provision of relevant training. This
will help to lay the groundwork for wider-ranging reviews of these sectors,
which in turn will provide the parameters for subsequent investment lending to
support extensive systemic reforms. Since such reforms take time to achieve,
it is important that the momentum generated by activities under the Technical
Assistance Project should be maintained through the SAL.
115.     The Government intends to initiate reviews of the health, education,
training, and research systems by the end of 1991.   In the health sector
review, key issues will include health finance and delivery, including the
extension of preventive health care.   The major issues for the education and
training system are in the areas of institutional autonomy and management,
revenue generation, cost recovery, and the nature and relevance of courses,
while in research the evolution of a competitive f4nding system is a priority.
PART III - EXTERNAL FINANCING NEEDS AND CREDITWORTHINESS
A. The Outlook for Growth
116.     The Government has embarked on a far-reaching domestic reform program
at the same time as the economy is experiencing a large decline in both its
external terms of trade and the level of trade. This difficult situation is
compounded by the initial conditions which prevailed at the outset of the
program, namely a large external debt overhang and severely limited access to
foreign capital. Consequently, the economy has been forced to adjust to a
much lower level of real income over a very short time. Current estimates
indicate that real GDP will decline by over a third between end-1989 and end-
1991, with real imports falling to about half the 1989 level. These estimates



- 37 .
are shown in Table 2.'9 While the sizeable domestic adjustment that has
already occurred and the comprehensive nature of the Bulgarian reform program,
provide a basis from which growth and creditworthiness can be restored,
continued domestic policy reform will not be sufficient to generate recovery
and growth. Support from the International Financial Institutions (IFIs),
together with a negotiated resolution of the present debt servicing
difficulties, is necessary to provide the foreign exchange required to finance
both the imported inputs and spare parts needed to increase capacity
utilization in the near-term and to restructure the economy and create new
capacity in the longer term.
117.     In the near-term, the estimated adjustment occurring in 1991 is
dramatic. Real GDP is estimated to decline by about 20.0 percent in 1991,
after falling by 11.8 percent in 1990. This is projected to result in an
increase in unemployment to 6 percent of the labor force during 1991 from zero
in mid-1990. Both the increase in unemployment and the targeted decline in
real wages (-50 percent) are expected to result in a drop of 17.1 percent in
real consumption in 1991 following a 12.0 percent decline in 1990. Much of
this adjustment is expected to be achieved by a large decline in government
consumption, which fell in real terms by 12.4 percent in 1990 and is budgeted
to decline by a further by 35.1 percent in 1991. This reflects the effects of
wage controls, the withdrawal of government from providing nonessential
services, and the ongoing reduction in government employment--targeted to
reach 20 percent in 1991. Total investment is expected to decline by
33.4 percent in real terms in 1991 (following a 8.8 percent decline in 1990),
reducing the level of investment to 27.1 percent of GDP. Goverrmont
investment is budgeted to 9 cline by a massive 65.9 percent, due to the
curtailment of the extra-budgetary State Investment Credit Fund (SICF) and a
reduction in nominal capital expenditures from 5.8 percent of GDP in 1990 to
1.6 percent in 1991. Part of the decline in total investment is also
expectedto reflect a large drop in inventories, which were accumulated during
1990 in anticipation of price liberalization."
i18.     Given the extent of the domestic reform program and the systemic
changes occurring in Eastern Europe, the medium-term scenario discussed below
must be treated with a higher degree of caution than is usually the case.
Nonetheless, the bold policy reforms that the authorities have taken--
particularly price liberalization, the realignment of the exchange rate and
the measures taken to increase competition--are expected to result in
increased productivity and the restoration of growth in the medium-term.
Agriculture and services are expected to register the first supply response.
,kV It should be noted that the estivates and forecasts provided in Table 2 ore based on incomplote national
accounts date for 1990. In addition, there are important lnconsistontils in the base year (1090) data
between the national accounts and the balence of pa7ments. As lulgaria has only recently Jolned the
Bank, it will take time to resolve these issues with the autborities.
,a/ The investmnt data for lulgaria includes en unusually high value for changes in stocks, depreciation
and unfinisbed construction. This reflects a valuation and classification methodology hich leads to en
overvaluation of the lsve of investment. Correction for these factors would result In downward
revision of investment as a percent of GDP across all yeaers.



- 38 -
Table 2: Bulgaria. Key Nacroecanamic Indicators
-----Actual-        ........................Projected ......................
1989     1990     1991      93 92            1994      1995        2000
(f ive year
Real Growth Rates                                                                             overage)
.  .. .. ................
Gross Domestic Product                  -0.3X  -11.8X   -19.4X      1.02     3.02     3.5X    4.S          5.3X
Agriculture                           -1.9X    -6.72      0.1X    3.01      3.02     2.5X      2.5X        2.5X
Industry                               5.5%   -16.3X   -25.8K    -2.02      1.0l     3.0X    4.5          5.0X
Services                              -8.72    -6.4X   -19.82      4.2X     5.9X    4.9X      5.8X         7.3X
Exports of GHFS I/                      -9.72   -15.5X   -24.3X    6.0X    6.52       6.8X    6.9X          6.3X
iqworts of CUFS                        -9.5X   -11.72   -36.6S    2.02       3.01     3.01     4.02        4.82
Total Consuption                        5.72   -12.02   -17.12    -0.5X      1.02     0.92     2.52         4.02
Goverrment Consumption                 7.S   -12.42   -35.12    -7.7X    3.02       3.52     4.52         5.32
Non GovernEent Consumption             5.1X   -11.82   -11.22      1.2X    0.62      0.32     2.02         3.6K
Total Investment                      -12.52    -8.82   -33.42      2.62     6.22     7.91X    7.62         7.52
Government Investment                -29.12    -0.32   -68.32    21.32      4.02     9.52    12.72         6.72
Non goverrumnt Investment             -2.12   -12.72   -15.32    -1.02      6.72     7.6      6.42         7.7X
----Actuel------ ------------------------Projected.......................
1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994      1995        2000
As a X of GDP
..  . . . . . . . . . ............
Total Cersption                        67.8X    72.22    84.42    86.1X    83.8x    81.02    78.92         73.52
Governsent Cons ption                 17.9X    17.7X    11.2X    13.0X    13.02    13.02    13.0X         13.02
Mon Gov rmwnt Corwption               49.9X    54.52    73.2x    73.12    70.81    68.02    65.9X         60.5S
Total Investment                       32.22    29.42    27.12    23.51    24.02    24.7X    25.12         26.0X
Govemment Investment                  10.       10.01     4.4X     4.5X     4.5X     4.7X     5.02         5.0X
Non Government Investment             22.2X    19.42    22.72    19.0X    19.52    20.02    20.12         21.02
Saving-Investment gap                  -2.42   -4.52   -17.82   -12.12   -10.8X    -9.12    -7.9X          -2.42
Goverruent                            -1.52   -13.32    -9.8X    -1.S5    -2.3X    -2.4X    -3.12         -1.71
Private and Ptkic sector              -1.2X   -13.42   -51.46   -10.9X    -7.8X    -5.9X    -4.2X         -0.12
Monetary Sector                        0.3X    22.3X    43.3X      0.31    -O.?%    -0.9X    -0.72        -0.7X
Current accoumt
Due basis                             -2.42    -4.52   -17.82   -12.12   -10.8X    -9.1X    -7.9X         -2.42
Cash basis                            -2.42    -3.02   -11.52   -12.12   -10.82    -9.1X    -7.92         -2.4X
Total exports of GEPS                 43.52    39.82    49.9%    52.62    54.42    56.22    S7.7X        61.02
Total isports of GlfS                 43.42    41.42    61.52    62.22    62.2X    61.9X    61.72        60.52
in illions of USD
.     ..... .................
Resource balance                       -1.7  -320.5  -1323.0  -1125.5  -952.5  -727.1   -546.0             98.7
Current Account
Due basis                           -516.8  -889.1  -2035.0  -1428.5  -1325.5  -1161.1  -1080.0        -487.3
Cash basis                          -516.8  -596.1  -1312.0  -1428.S  -132S.5  -1161.1  -1080.0        -487.3
International Reserves in months        0.7      0.5      0.3       1.3      1.5      1.7      2.0         2.8
of laports of CUfS
~~~~.... ..... ... .... . ................ ...... ........... ,........... ....................... ..............
1I Reasults from the consolidation of convertible and non convertible trade date usinr the cross currency
exchange rate beteeen TR/Laev and Leva/USO.



- 39 -
If the authorities can maintain their schedule of returning a significant
proportion of the land to private farmers or cooperatives before the next
planting season, output would increase significantly over the exceptionally
low level forecast for 1991. The service sector is also relatively well
placed to respond to the new policy environment. Foreign investors have
already expressed interest in Bulgaria's extensive tourist infrastructure
(e.g., the Black Sea and the mountainous regions), while other segments of the
industry (e.g., finance, retail outlets, restaurants) are relatively
underdeveloped. The liberal foreign investment laws and the auction of small
enterprises (including tourist facilities) should support growth in this area.
119.    As shown in Table 2, the industrial sector is expected to continue to
decline until 1993. Constrained by both the disruption in CMEA trade and
the sharp curtailment of aggregate domestic demand, growth will be primarily
dependent on increased exports to the non-CtlEA countries. However, given
existing management practices, the efficiency of the existing capital stock
and the limited prospects for large-scale direct foreign investment in the
near term, an improvement in the performance of the manufacturing sector will
take time. However, the radical change in the regulatory and incentive
structure discussed earlier should lead to a new more efficient private sector
developing alongside a declining state sector, and some small, but e,panding,
export-oriented industries.
120.    Trade is expected to continue to decline through 1991,    p primarIly
to the breakdown of the CMEA. The new trade agreement reached bevseen
Bulgaria and the Soviet Union provides for trade of specified commodities on a
balanced basis, at world prices, and for settlement under a bilateral payments
system dencminated in convertible currencies. An indicative list of
commodities has been agreed with an estimated value of US$2.0 billion in each
direction. A separate list provides for Soviet deliveries of 5 million tons
of crude oil (under half the amount supplied in the 1980s) against Bulgarian
exports of "hard" tradable commodities such as foodstuffs, medicines, raw
materials, and oil processing equipment. It is important to note that both
lists exclude most of the machinery and equipment that traditionally
constituted about half Bulgarian exports to the USSR, and that implementation
of this agreement is in questiorn. As a result, exports to the Soviet Union
are estimated to decline by about a half. One positive aspect of these
developments is that by end-1991, Bulgaria will have reduced its QIEA exports
to a basket of goods which could be switched to other markets--thereby
reducing its vulnerability to further country-specific shocks. With respect
to the non-CMEA market, the change in incentives should stimulate exports
during 1991. However, the slow rehabilitation of the manufacturing sector and
the disruption in agriculture is expected to constrain aggregate export growth
in 1991.
121.    As a result of the decline in exports and the worsening of Bulgaria's
terms of trade, imports will be compressed further during 1991 due to the
income and output decline, even with the assumed financial assistance from
official sources. Imports from the GCEA are estimated to decline by a similar
magnitude to exports (about a half). Consequently, the alleviation of the
overall resource constraint depends on the possibility of running a deficit



- 40 -
with non-CMEA markets. For 1991, the authorities have agreed with the IMF on
a current account deficit target of about US$2 billion on a due basis, which
they anticipate can be financed by official assistance (primarily the
G-24/EC, IMF and World Bank) and the continued deferral of most debt payments.
As the current account deficit was about US$1.0 billion in 1990, this target
implies that close to 70 percent of the estimated external shock
(US$3.5 billion) will be absorbed by a further adjustment of the domestic
economy. This is reflected in the large downward trend in all economic
indicators, as discussed above.
122.     In the medium-term both exports and imports are expected to expand at
a moderate rate, but at a faster pace than GDP growth. On the import side,
the estimated 3.0 percent average growth rate between 1992 and 1995, primarily
reflects the investment demands of an industrial sector undergoing extensive
restructuring plus the need for imported inputs into the agricultural and
service sectors. On the export side, the estimated 6.5 percent average growth
over 1992-95 reflects expected gains in productivity and competitiveness. The
liberalization of prices and the movement to a market-based exchange rate are
expected to result in a significant decline in the real wage. In addition,
the opening of the economy to foreign trade (particularly the reduction in
export restrictions and taxes), and the demonopolization of domestic trade and
industry should promote greater efficiency.
B. External Debt and Creditvorthiness
123.     To take advantage of the opportunities created by a strong domestic
reform program, the economy needs access to foreign markets (to sell exports)
and foreign exchange (to purchase imports). The cessation of access to
external credit was a significant factor underlying the decline in convertible
currency exports during 1990 and the first part of 1991. The restoration of
access to trade credits and foreign financing from official sources is thus
crucial to Bulgaria's success. The authorities have made significant progress
in obtaining sufficient commitments for official financing for 1991, but
financing for 1992 remains uncertain. The issues related to Bulgaria's debt
problem and a tentative external financing plan are discussed below.
1. Overall Debt Strategy and Institution Building.
124.     Bulgaria's debt problem must be addressed if the Government's
objectives are to be realized. Only after the commercial bank debt problem is
addressed are foreign investors and commercial banks likely to resume their
operations at a level adequate to support the economy. The Government's
strategy requires new finance from the official sector in the near-term,
burden sharing among creditors, continued implementation of a credible reform
program, and access to commercial capital for the emerging private sector by
1995-96. Bulgaria will have to seek concessions from its existing creditors
to support the reform process, either in the form of new credits or in the
form of debt relief. A primary objective should be to re-establish some trade
lines immediately following the negotiations with both the Paris and London
Clubs. Direct foreign investment flows are anticipated to begin gradually



- 41 -
(e.g., the recent oil/gas exploration contracts signed with foreign
companies), and increase throughout most of the decade, providing a boost to
the privatization effort. Substantial private sector capital flows are
expected to resume by the mid-1990s, if the reform agenda remains on track.
Finally, domestic commercial banks are also expected to maintain their current
actess to foreign capital markets.
125.     In the near-term, it is apparent that the financing gaps which are
expected to arise over the next five years, inclusive of interest payments,
will not be filled by private loans. Thus, IFI support is crucial as it is
necessary to support the reform process to maintain investment and access to
imported inputs at a level compatible with medium-term growth targets. While
adequate financing for 1991 may be forthcoming, the financing gaps for 1992
and 1993 are large and the sources of official assistance less well defined.
In the absence of external support, the domestic costs associated with
implementing the reforms may undermine the sustainability of the Government's
program.
126.     A standard rescheduling of London Club debt would leave Bulgaria with
a debt burden that generates a financing gap which could not realistically be
filled by official lending. Thus, an appropriate debt and debt service
reduction (DDSR) will be required to allow enough "head room" for new IFI
financing during the transition period and to establish the conditions under
which Bulgaria could emerge as a relatively creditworthy country by 1995-96.
We have constructed a series of scenarios with various amounts of DDSR. Our
tentative conclusion is that a significant DDSR of commercial debt is required
in order to reach a reasonably sustainable scenario along the lines described
above. If new money is forthcoming from commercial sources, the extent of the
required commercial DDSR could be reduced accordingly.
127.     Because the amount of Paris Club debt outstanding is small relative
to the total, there is no compelling argument for Paris Club debt reduction.
Burden-sharing with the Paris Club could be accomplished by new official
lending, interest capitalization, and principal rescheduling. The Paris Club
agreed on April 17, 1991 to reschedule all official obligations due until mid-
1992 over 10 years, with 6 years grace. The debt relief went beyond
conventional Paris Club rescheduling terms. A similar treatment of
obligations due in 1992-1994 could be expected if the reform program remains
on track.
128.     One of the Government's priorities is to develop further its domestic
capacity to produce a medium-term macroeconomic framework and financing plan,
including a comprehensive debt strategy. As an important first step toward
this objective, the Government has created the institutional framework needed
to develop accurate debt statistics. A Debt Information Group has recently
been established and will be receiving technical assistance supervised by the
Bank. The main responsibility of this group will be to produce information on
the maturity structure of the obligations, to isolate the impact of the
rollover requests and treatment of arrears from the original debt stock, and
to break down liabilities by creditor, by currency, etc. The group will also
carry out a reconciliation of commercial bank claims with its own records,



- 42 -
which is a prerequisite for any negotiations on a long-term solution to the
debt issue. This group is also responsible for reporting external borrowings
to the Bank in the format required for member countries. In addition, a Debt
Management Committee has been formed, to develop and negotiate a strategy to
manage external obligations, and to restore Bulgaria's access to voluntary
financing, in particular trade-related financing. The Debt Management
Committee will be assisted by the Agency for Economic Programming and
Development, to further develop a consistent medium-term macroeconomic
framework consistent with the Ij'I adjustment program. All three institutions
will be supported by a Japanese Grant Fund for Financial Technical Assistance
(administered by the Bank), which has been approved for Bulgaria in the amount
of US$500,000 for this specific purpose. The authorities have also requested
additional resources be provided under the Bank's TAP. All of these groups
will be operational by July 1991.
129.     Finally, it is clear that Bu'.garia will require significant financial
support from the international commurity over the next few years. In order to
mobilize this support the authoritie; have proposed that an Aid Consortium
Group be established, comprised of he major official donors. The Government
sent a letter to the World Bank, dated May 29, 1991, formally requesting that
the Bank organize and chair such an Aid Group.
2. External Financing
130.    To support the implementation of its transformation program, Bulgaria
needs medium and long-term external financing disbursements of US$1.6 billion
in 1991 net of deferrals (including private domestic commercial banks). In
addition to financing the current account deficit, this permits a build-up of
foreign exchange reserves of US$500 million, which is consistent with the
reserves target established under the IMF SBA. Based on the strength of the
overall adjustment program and the policy measures already implemented,
Bulgaria has received bilateral and multilateral commitments in 1991 which
approach the level needed to meet its requirements.
131.     The debt reduction scenario presented in Tables 3 and 4 is based on
assumptions which are in line with the recent Paris Club agreement. With
respect to the London Club, the current deferral agreement (exclusive of
domestic commercial banks) is expected to continue until early 1992, hence
there are no debt service payments on BFTB debt obligations in 1991. In 1992,
a debt workout is assumed to significantly reduce BFTB's outstanding debt
obligations to its commercial creditors." The DDSR deal is assumed to be
supported by the Bank, the Fund and the EC. There are several ways in which
to achieve this DDSR target, including buybacks, conversions to financial
instruments with lower face value or interest rates, and debt to equity swaps.
j/ The debt deal underlying the projections asasuses that all of 8FTB's debt to comnercial creditors (about
$7.5 billion) is swapped for 25 year bonds at a ratio of 30 percent and carrying a market interest rate,
with 2 years of interest and principal guaranteed.



- 43 -
Table 3: RediuaeTerm Financing Plan
(USS Hliotm)
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     2000
Exports of QIFS                7930     5713    6191      666b     7168     7859    12161
Irports of GaFS                8251     7036     7316    7616      7895     8405    12062
Resource Balance               -321    -1323    -1126     -953     -727     -546       99
C.A Def. (cash basis)          -603    -1312    -1428    -1354    -1190    -1109      -516
Interest paid          515      169      505      626      713      825     1030
C.A Def. (due basis)           -878    -1936    -1428    -1354    -1190    -1109      -516
Int. arrears            32       46
Int. roll-over         243      578
.......... .................  .. 
Principal due                  3106    3401       918
Principal Paid on NLT           852      200      225      123      27?      588      929
Nultilateral                    0        0        0       77      257      419       150
of which:
.BRD                          0        0        0        0        0        0       74
Si aterat                     131        0       25       24       20      147      653
Private and Coemrcial         721      200      200       22        0       22      126
Bilateral Princ. arrears        390      128
Prins. rolled over             1864    3073
Eubaclck cost                                     693
arrears repaid                                    52
Change In Reserves
(-a decrease)                  -888      500      165      160      170      280      300
Errors and omissions            173        0        0        0        0        0        0
Total Financing Needs          3269     5837    2563      1637     1637     1977     1745
. ...... .........
Gross Disbursements on NLT      437     1608    2328      1097      991     1175     1191
of Which:
MultilateraL                    0      621     1188      600      635      464      320
of which:
ITRD                          0      160      400      115      140      140      150
IfC                                    0       20       25       30       35       35
Bilateral                       0      787      800      450      320      320      120
Private C    mrcial           437      200      340       47       36      391      751
Chwe in Short Term (net)          0        0        0      200      100      150      125
Direct Foreign Investdient        4       50      130      150      300      350      400
Total Roll-over                2107    3651
Total Arrears                   422      174
Net ULt Capital. n.e.i.         299      354      105      161      217     z23         0
Interest on escrow                                          29       29       29       29
Total Financr n  Sources       3269     5837    2563      1637     1637     1977     1745
............... ......................
a/ Assunes Bank contribution to DDSR of $250 million in adition to $150 million
of disburssmnt from the core lending progrmn.



- 44 -
At the London Club meeting on June 10-11, 1991, the commercial banks
reiterated their acceptance, in principle, of the need for a long-term
resolution of the debt problem. Medium and long-term debt is currently traded
in small volumes on the secondary market at about 15 percent of face value.
However, the market is '.liquid, and supply is small at this price. Finally,
our projections assume that private domcstic commercial banks continue to meet
their debt obligations and are granted about equivalent access to new money
during 1991-92, i.e., net inflows are zero.
132.     The projected deficit in the resource balance is expected to decline
relatively quickly from US$1.3 billion in 1991 to balance in 1997. External
financing needs remain large, however, due to the debt service burden
(interest payments) on rescheduled and new debt, as well as the short
repayment terms of balance-of-payments support from some multilateral and
official lenders. However, while the financing requirements are significant,
this is appropriate given the magnitude of domestic adjustment that the
economy has already undergone. If the financing plan is not sustainable, the
economy would have to absorb more of the adjustment, making it difficult for
the Government to continue to implement its domestic reform program.
133.     Under the scenario presented here, total nominal debt, after the debt
deal, increases by about 30 percent over the period 1992 to 1995, and then by
a further 17 percent by 2000. As shown in Table 4, the total debt stock as a
percentage of both exports and GDP peaks in 1994 before declining, as the
economy, and particularly exports, continues to respond to the new economic
environment. Other debt indicators undergo a broadly similar pattern, given
the assumptions outlined above. The total debt service to export ratio peaks
in the late 1990s when the grace period of the PAris and London Clubs elapses,
but it subsequently declines and remains low enough to preclude the need for
further reschedulings.
134.     The projected financing plan shows an important shift in the
composition of creditors: from 1991 to 1995, gross disbursements from
official creditors on average are over twice those from commercial sources.
Between 1996 and 2000, the relative shares are reversed so that average gross
disbursements from private sources are over three times the amounts from
official sources. This iA consistent with the authorities' strategy, whereby
burden-sharing is initially achieved across all creditors through new net
lending from official sources, and debt reduction from commercial sources
during the period of structural adjustment. Official creditors' share of
Bulgaria's long term DOD increases from 30 percent in 1991 to a peak of
60 percent in 1996 before declining. At the same time, the private creditors'
share declines from over 70 percent to about 40 percent before rising again.
The program assumes a gradual increase in foreign direct investment following
the resolution of the debt problem in 1992. This figure rises from
US$130 million in 1992 to US$350 million in 1995, and stabilizes at US$400
million from 1997 onwards. These estimates take into account the Government's
stated intentions to implement a privatization program, and to adopt policies
to promote foreign investments, possibly also through debt-equity conversions.



table 4: Debt Indicators with DDSR and Paris Club Rescheduling.
1991     1m        193      1994     19.5      1996     199?      199       1999     2000
. ......... .... .....................................................................................................................
Total Debt (in Bill ions of WS)                     12.39       8.9       9.9     10.8      11.5      12.0     12.3      12.7      13.1     13.5
Total Debt/SDP                                       84.4X    58.8X   63.21    65.71    65.71    63.6          60.42   5T.92  SS.22    52.72
Total Debt/X6S                                      207.82   136.6    141.12   142.12   138.82   131.42   121.72   116.22   110.82 105.52
Interest paid/CDP a/                                  1.22      3.32      4.0%     4.42      4.72     4.6       4.52      4.32     4.2X      4.02
Total Debt Service paid/GOP                           2.42      4.5S      3.62     3.6      s.4x  s.22   5.82             6.7%      7.02     7.12
Interest paid/XlS                                     2.82      7.82      8.92     9.46    10.02      9.62      9.01      8.72     8.46      8.12
Total Debt Service paid/lGS                           5.92    10.32       8.1X     7.82    11.42    10.72    11.72    13.52    14.02    14.22
Preferred Debt/Total Debt                             5.02    20.42    23.5    25.22    24.02    22.0X    21.02    20.86           13.52    21.8
I3RD Debt/Total Debt                                  1.12      6.32     6.8X      7.6       8.32     9.22      9.92    10.52    10.92    11.22
131D Debt/Preferred Debt                             21.72    31.02    28.9X   30.12    34.72    41.72    47.3X    50.62    81.12  51.22
IRD Debt Service/Total Debt service paid             1.42      3.9%     8.22      9.42      7.1    8.6        10.02    10.22    10.22    10.32
IBRD Debt Service/X6S                                 0.12      0.42     0.72      0.72      0.82     0.92      1.22      1.4X      1.42     1.52
Preferred Debt Service/Total Debt Servfce Paid        6.52    13.5    40.92    76.6    67.92    70.12   51.7?            34.12    24.82    19.92
.. .__. ................................................................................................._.__._.................. ..... .........._,.____.................... ___.........__._ ..........  .__
Source: Staff estimates.
a/  bile in 991 interest was not paid, it is assumed that Bulgaris resumes its debt service paymnts in 1992.



- 46 -
There are already ongoing discussions concerning tourist facilities and light
industry.
135.     The financing plan for Bulgaria includes a 12-month IMF SBA in the
amount of SDR 279 million and a CCFF approved for SDR 60.6 million. A second
purchase is possible during 1991, (approximately SDR 33.0 million), dependent
upon data through June 1991 on actual import cost developments. The SBA is to
be disbursed in 5 tranches, one of which is in 1992. In 1991, Bank
disbursements are projected at US$160 million, US$150 million being the first
tranche of the SAL and US$10 million from the approved TAP. In 1992, Bank
disbursements are projected to be about US$150 million, excluding IBRD's
participation in financing a possible DDSR package. A sizeable three-year
adjustment lending program is consistent with Bulgaria's strategy to request
official support for its commercial debt and debt service reduction operation.
The projected share of Bank debt service in total debt service rises to
10 percent by the end of the decade. IBRD debt service as a percentage of
exports of goods and services rises to 1.5 percent in 2000.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED SAL
A. Objectives of the SAL and Country Strategy
136.     The primary objectives of the proposed SAL are to support the
Government's economic reform program and to reduce the severe external capital
constraint. This operation is a direct result of the policy recommendations
made in the Bank's first Country Economic Memorandum entitled *Bulgaria:
Crisis and Transition Towards a Market Economy", dated January 23, 1991. A
pre-appraisal mission visited Bulgaria in February 1991, with appraisal
following shortly thereafter in May 1991. The SAL is envisaged as the first
of a series of policy-based operations and is intended to create the
foundation for policy advice and subsequent Bank support via sector and
project loans.
137.     As discussed in Part II, the Government of Bulgaria has embarked on a
comprehensive and radical reform program. The program aims to reduce
macroeconomic imbalances as well as lay the foundations for sustained growth
and the restoration of creditworthiness. To achieve these objectives, in the
current external environment, the program contains far-reaching stabilization
and structural adjustment measures, which are being implemented almost
simultaneously. The program is as comprehensive as those recently adopted in
Poland and Czechoslovakia. Indeed, in some respects, the Bulgarian reform
program goes beyond the measures adopted in these countries, particularly in
the area of agricultural land reform, the extent of price and trade
liberalization, and, potentially, the restructuring of the banking sector.
The Government is undertaking these measures without access to foreign private
finance and official assistance is modest. In addition, the economy is being
subjected to massive external shocks related to the dissolution of the CMEA,
the economic turmoil in the USSR, and the Gulf Crisis. Thus the Government's



- 47 -
task has become more difficult because the costs of adjusting to these
external shocks has to be dealt with at the same time as the economy is being
asked to adjust to a radically different set of incentives. While these
circumstances increase the uncertainties and risks associated with the
program, they also strengthen the case for quick official assistance. Because
of the urgent need for near-term financial assistance, the strength of the
Government's economic reform program, and the measures that the Government
have already taken the SAL is front loaded (see para. 142).
138.     The SAL is intended to be the centerpiece of the Bank's activities in
Bulgaria for the next year. Under the loan, the Bank will assist the
Government develop the necessary institutions and basic regulatory/incentive
framework to support the transformation to a market economy and improve the
efficiency of the public sector, including SEs. As such the loan is wide-
ranging, reflecting the ambitious scope of the Government's reform program.
As implementation capacity in Bulgaria is weak, the recently approved
Technical Assistance Project will facilitate the SAL. All of the SAL elements
are included in the TAP except agriculture, which is being coordinated by the
EC. Economic and sector work will proceed during the period covered by the
SAL, to deepen our understanding of the issues and to sharpen the focus of
subsequent lending operations. Currently the Country Strategy emphasizes the
importance of providing balance of payments support, including a possible
DDSR, in the context of encouraging further policy reforms at the sectoral
level. The size and balance between quick-disbursing elements and investment
elements will vary depending on progress with the reform program, balance of
payments needs, and developments concerning external debt. Priority sectors
will be industry, finance, energy, agriculture and social safety net.
B. CGoMonents and Tranche Release Conditions
139.     The proposed loan aims at supporting both stabilization and
structural reform policies to restore external and internal balances and
support sustained economic growth. The specific policy reforms supported by
the SAL are derived from the broad description of the program provided in Part
II. Given the breadth of the program, the operation focuses on those reforms
that are considered central to the successful transformation of the economy.
The proposed SAL, in addition to providing a medium-term macroeconomic
framework and financing plan with broad agreement on key policy and
performance variables, supports reform initiatives in the following areas:
(i)   Increased co Metition and market based relative prices. through
trade policy reform and demonopolization;
(ii)   Private sector development, through reform of the domestic
regulatory and incentive framework, creation of a modern banking
sector, and privatization of state owned assets - including
agriculture, services, and small and large-scale enterprises;
(iii)   Restructuring SEs and reforming energy pricing 2olicies.  through
reform of the management and ownership system, development of a



- 48 -
capacity for strategic decision making, and creation of a
coord.nating authority for the energy sector. Energy price
reform will further contribute toward the more rational use of
scarce resources.
(iv)   Establishing a social safety net. which prevents incomes falling
below subsistence and steps to promote employment mobility.
140.     The SAL would lay the groundwork for subsequent operations in the
priority sector areas, i.e., agriculture, banking, industry and energy. The
main emphasis of the SAL is on structural policies aimed at increasing the
efficiency of resource use, improving the microeconomic incentives, restoring
the economy's capacity for long-term growth and increasing per capita income.
The nexus of issues related to enterprise behavior i.e., privatization, public
enterprise reform and demonopolization is one pivotal element of the SAL whose
purpose is to improve microeconomic incentives and increase efficiency at the
level of firms and industries. In addition, land reform, energy pricing, and
banking reform comprise important elements of the structural transformation
supported by the SAL. To ensure that structural policies are implemented with
an acceptable level of social costs, the SAL will also address the issue of
social costs of adjustment through its support of an appropriate social safety
net during the period of transition. The Government's overall program is
described in the policy matrix (Annex 2), which also highlights both SAL and
IMF SBA conditionality.
141.     Tranche release conditions.  The loan would be disbursed in two
tranches and is front-loaded. The first tranche of US$150 million equivalent
would be available on effectiveness, expected in August 1991, while the second
tranche of US$100 million equivalent would be released on fulfillment of
specific tranche release conditions. Conditions for second tranche release
are presented in Annex III. The attached Policy Matrix presents a more
complete picture of the Government's reform program, including the separate
components of the program supported by the IMF.
142.     The proposal to front-load the SAL reflects three important
considerations. First, the strength and breadth of the Government's economic
reform program warrants equally strong support from the Bank. Second, the
program is being implemented at a time when the economy is experiencing
massive adverse external shocks, the impact of which is difficult for the
Government to moderate because of the lack of access to foreigr. private
capital markets and the low level of foreign exchange reserves. Third, in
response to the rapidly deteriorating economic situation the Government have
already taken a number of important actions, including the following:
Macroeconomic Framework.
0 Adoption and implementation of a comprehensive
macroeconomic stabilization program, including incomes
and monetary targets, appropriate interest rates,
exchange rate reform and a consistent budget



- 49 -
(including the reduction in subsidies from 16 percent
of GDP in 1990 to a targeted 3.2 percent in 1991).
S  Creation and initiation of operations of the
institutions required to improve the Government's
capacity to produce a medium-term framework and
financing plan, including foreign debt data. The Debt
Information Group (DIG), Debt Management Committee,
and the Agency for Economic Programming and
Development will receive technical assistance from the
Bank.
e  Proposal to establish an Aid Consortium Group to
coordinate official assistance, including a formal
request to World Bank requesting the Bank to act as
chairman for the first meeting.
Comeetition and Price Reform.
o  Lifting of price controls, except on energy products
and public utilities. Energy prices increased to
close to world levels and relative price distortions
substantially reduced, charges for other public
utilities increased.
*  Removal of all NTBs except for export bans on a few
foodstuffs and Basic raw materials during the
transition period. Agreement with the Bank on terms
of reference for a comprehensive review of the trade
regime and initiation of consultancy procurement.
*  Initiation of program for break-up of large state
"combines" in industry, trade and transport,
construction, and tourism, including input and output
markets for agricultural &oods.
Private Sector Deyelogent.
e  Lifting of employment limits, permitting of company
registration under modern corporate forms, and removal
of restrictions on right to engage in foreign trade.
Enactment of Commercial Law and a liberal Foreign
Investment Law.
e  Establishing two-tier banking system, with separation
of Central bank functions from those of commercial
banks. Banking supervision department established in
Central Bank. Terms of reference, acceptable to Bank
staff, completed for a "Study on Structural Issues of
the Banking System".
* Adoption by the Government of an approach, acceptable
to the Bank, for cleaning-up the portfolios of
domestic banks, including the problem of non-
performing domestic loans.



- 50 -
* Enactment of Agricultural Land Law, and implementing
regulations, creating the conditions for the private
ownership of agricultural land.
* Enactment of legislation permitting auction of state
owned small enterprises and assets of large
enterprises. Pilot auctions of small establishments
initiated.
State EnteKRrise Restructuring and Energy Pric ing
C Moratorium on conversion of state enterprises (SEs) to
joint stock companies abolished and clarification of
the ownership rights of the State in SEs under Article
24 of Decree 56.
* Enactment of new Accounting Law for establishment of
modern accounting system.
e Legal framework for the liquidation of enterprises
established under Decree 56, and subsequently subsumed
in the recently adopted Commercial Law.
* NITS agreed on terms of reference with the Bank on
study to develop action plan for restructuring and
privatization of industrial enterprises.
- Agreement to set up a system at the Ministry of
Finance to monitor the financial performance of SEs,
including inter-enterprise credits, and agreed on
related technical assistance with the Bank staff.
Control of Monopolies.
c Enactment of Competition Law to prevent unfair
competition.
* Oil and gas exploration opened to foreign private
investment, and contracts signed with foreign firms.
Social Safety Net and Labor Markets.
* Increased contributions from employees and employers
to accommodate expected increase in unemployment.
 Improved system of determining unemployment benefit, the benefit
is now set at a level corresponding to 20 percent of the excess of
the recipient's basic salary over the minimum wage.
* Agreement to ensure income support does not fall below
subsistence and provide corresponding budgetary
support.



- 51 -
C. Loan Amount and Cofinancing
143.     The proposed amount of the loan is $250 million.  Additional
cofinancing from the Japanese EXIN Bank is expected for US$100 million. In
addition, cofinancing from USAID of $10 million has been obtained, with
another US$10 million to US$15 million (to be disbursed against the second
tranche) pending congressional approval. The loan would provide important
support to Bulgaria's transformation in an extremely difficult economic
situation. The loan would be made to the Republic of Bulgaria.
D. Utilization
144.     The utilization of the loan will be against general imports, except
for the negative list of certain goods including military and paramilitary
items, nuclear equipment, uranium, and some luxury goods. The foreign exchange
made available through the loan will be used by enterprises for imports.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
145.     All contracts for the procurement of general imports would be awarded
following standard procurement procedures in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement (May 1985). All contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$ 3.0 million and above would be subject to simplified
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. There is no previous
experience in Bulgaria regarding ICB and other Bank procedures and at present
there are no standardized bidding documents for such procurement actions.  The
first set of Bidding Documents for ICB procurement would therefore be subject
to Bank's prior review. After that, the agreed Bidding Documents would be
used for all the remaining ICB procurement actions under the proposed Loan.
For procurement of commonly traded commodities special procedures as
applicable to the respective organized international commodity markets may be
followed. These procedures would be subject to the Bank's prior approval.
All contracts below the equivalent of US$3.0 million would be awarded
following International Shopping procedures by comparing price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two eligible countries.
All contracts, the relevant Bidding Documents and bid evaluation reports would
be sent to the Bank for ex-post review before the submission of the first
application for withdrawal of funds in respect of such contracts.
146.     The proposed loan amount of $250 would be disbursed in two tranches.
The first tranche of US$150 million would be made available upon Board
approval (July/August 1991), and the second tranche of US$100 million in the
first half of 1992. Disbursement from the loan would be made against
100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports. Disbursements
would be administered by the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB). Withdrawal
applications would be fully documented, except for expenditures under
contracts valued below $1.0 million equivalent (amount based on relative
inexperience of the borrower using this procedure) which would be made on the



- 52 -
basis of certified statements of expenditure (SOE). Supporting documentation
in these cases would be retained by the appropriate authorities for at least
one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which
the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available
for review by the auditors and by Bank staff upon request. The minimum amount
for withdrawal applications would be $1.0 million. Retroactive financing of
US$50 million (20 percent of the loan) for expenditures incurred after
April 1, 1991, is proposed. The loan closing date would be December 31, 1992.
147.     In order to facilitate project implementation, the borrower would
establish a Special Accouat in US Dollars in the Bulgarian National Bank to
cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized amount of the
account would be $20.0 million equivalent (20 percent of the first tranche
amount, net of retroactive financing). The special account would be
replenished monthly, or whenever one-third of the authorized amount has been
withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for
replenishment applicatiors would follow the same procedure as described in
paragraph 147. In addition, monthly bank statements of the special account
which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment
requests.
F. Audit Reguirements
148.     All records and accounts, including the Special Account, and
statements of expenditure, would be audited annually by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the Bank's Auditing Guidelines.
The annual audit reports would be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the close of each fiscal year.
G. Risks
149.     One of the main risks associated with the reform program is that the
magnitude of the external shock coupled with the near-term deflationary
consequences of the stabilization program could increase economic difficulties
to a degree that popular support for the program, and hence the Government's
resolve, is weakened. The limited access to foreign capital markets does not
give the Government much room for manoeuvre, to offset any additional shocks
via foreign borrowing. While financing for 1991 seems to bz adequate, the
position in 1992 to 1995 is less certain. Another major uncertainty concerns
the upcoming elections, which adds a margin of risk to the continuity of the
reform program. A major change in Government could result in the pace of
reform slowing to a degree that the second tranche conditions are not met.
The provision of an adequate social safety net and the current agreement with
the major trade unions reduce these risks by making the transition less
painful and by involving the population in the decision-making process. In
addition, the structural adjustment reforms will create the enabling
environment for the restoration of the supply response in the medium term as
well as providing badly needed foreign exchange in the near-term.



- 53 -
R.   mlgmentaion and Institutional Arrangmnts
150.     The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for implementation,
monitoring and coordination of the program with other relevant ministries and
banks involved in the program.
151.     Progress will be measured against the comprehensive reform program
outlined in the Letter of Development Policy and attached Policy Matrix. The
most critical components of this reform program are reflected in the second
tranche conditions provided in Annex III. In addition, quantitative
indicative targets, which have been agreed with the Government, will be used
to monitor progress during the transition phase. These indicators, (provided
in Annex III), provide quantitative criteria for the Bank's economic dialogue
with the authorities and will be reviewed during supervision of the loan.
Information on these indicators will be made available to the Bank
periodically, with significant divergences triggering a detailed analysis and
discussion of possible corrective actions.
1. IFC's Relatlon with the Country
152.     IFC has spent much of the past year mapping out strategies for Its
support to Bulgaria's prlvate sector. Several missions have been mounted to
discuss with the Government and local business leaders IFC's project finance,
capital markets, and corporate finencial services products. IFC has explored
several specific proposals with Bulgarian and foreign partners which will be
taken further following Bulgaria satisfying all the conditions of IFC
membership in July 1991.
153.     While several recent reforms have significantly improved Bulgaria's
business climate, the pending privatization law is an important component in
the country's transformation to a private sector-led economy and the
encouragement of foreign investment. Other obstacles which the country is
working to overcome are its traditional close ties with former CMA economies,
a relatively small domestic market, and a large and primarily commercial debt
overhang.
154.     IFC seeks to conclude as soon as possible a couple of projects to
serve as examples for future investments in Bulgaria. It is presently
focusing on joint-ventures with foreign partners while aiming to encourage
smaller to medium sized locally-owned companies. The Corporation is
particularly watchful for good investment opportunities in agri-business,
light industry, engineering, and tourism. IFC also seeks to provide
privatization advice in conjunction with specific investments and for broad
based policy making purposes.



- 54 -
J. Coordination with IMF
155.     Bank staff have been working closely with the IMF from the beginning
of Bulgaria's entry into both institutions. Cooperation and the exchange of
views has been open and productive. Bank staff participated in the IMF
missions prior to the SBA agreement. Similarly, the IMF have been involved in
the substance and the dialogue concerning preparation of the SAL. There is
broad agreement on the medium-term macroeconomic framework, including the need
for a comprehensive resolution of the external debt problem. We have formed a
two working groups to look &' issues related to external debt and the medium-
term macroeconomic framework. The particular area of further coordination
with the IMF will be the monitoring of macroeconomic developments during the
transition period.
PART V - RECONMENDATION
156.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
July 9, 1991
Washington, D.C.



- 55 -
So  al         s iuiS olS    b e _Oiptbf* 199@
Bulgar
1sMet                            '             ,Yz
cslOO lEwp~~(hbeNf                            yw          ms         aif.  MM EU    ag~              irc
Pa..u.ow|        qe        qe79 ( a2 )0 sAm4W                b  om
-   ~      ~~~~ 5946 18207                           831,02     42034
u~~~~~bsv    ,SI ~       ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ -                 , o
HUMaANRE pOU*.41C                                                                                          19         .
T*ul                                                           94~~~~~~~~.  3.6            3.     6 .
14 sCr=okddeimr                                                                -~~~fj  14)1  3102  50,4
.nilkyinla                                            2.08         4         90        42a9       3.87       3.8
-             -e w                                            -          -|| -                 - 
aYU      ( 4        _ 1                tO4) Ima  (149 tao  ii  0"m
_t p- X E B 102 2                                  8    1    5         M A . 
=as                                      02    gS2.441660 .   2 8.1        8.
plw                                                          ~ ~~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~13.  6.  52.7  42.2
*r vowdtmu                                 3.9~~~-155                       635         1.        5.
Toot _me                            ,0                                       4,476    191,22      243,       159,186
*s_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.4    : d;463.                                            2       67.4w 3
U Iw loos                                                     9,         9         100          .          -
RI=                                                        J7          1          100 
Pailue=%dpwieb maw l                          X1                                   48.        32.        388         8
P= WMINW=SI                                              A47.0                 47         20.6        2.         23.S
Shody:Ow1a                                         ..         87          - _ 
mel
NATURAL RALRU OR                                                                                                  162
dae..qh                                   its11    14,738     21,088     1624
i.ad           Wailmim             52.2       53.7~~~~~~~~~S         31.5       36.9       31.9
DS!DUuIICS 'S                   amm1~               01         0.20.1                0          .00744
-s        l         i        lel} , 5   79.7
VOW                                        no* primr schoo enonw  t
*iin_
'30
-*s                   us-. ~                         .~1         mb                             u~7



- 56 -
Sodad IAdk&trssotDvdopt, MO
Bulgaki
MAfd  Sow7wIiN7VF   a
-              .s.0               J$                              ,p@Y
GNPpwatw(m       19M)                    US                                 mm 23      2,67            3,810
Sheto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 40*f                                            .4    _    e         - .
Sbmutoboa20ImsdM                         S _                        - _ _
Abotop       w                       USSpp.                ..                               
Ft~~~~aa                          -6                             - ..                ..        ..".
PopeS in doh  po 
Pcp nu.tey~                          9gofpap            78.        813          ..a    -Q           ;       a
pamim.IuahdM *iWrs)                  %dapsu                -         -         -
mm~dw
~~~~~~~~~~~~~* d DIP                             .          44
doam.mo#.Own         3d        Ed         ad      53.id      39 6.7ai
1979t~m13 78                     31o2aiU
A=oowish                          p       _mp              | a|                "
k=ofuzeqdvalr     1.78LO     X     .  4.705A     1,4i6                 11 W.;
-~~~~~~~~~~tOD                                  -b         -    a    - 9Z3                -  .   ..
AbwsdinMaa                                                                               i 4I   30    I
sqr~~~~M
mo"cwp                                                     .           *        .                   *          -
Pq        r.u 3                                            0         .9 1  4 A         13        647      1,3.
<                            %da~~~~~~~~~~~~tIDP           .4        .4        44 -4                 .
bed23                                                                  2         300        15
Mmimar    _                             a f DP             ..        ..        ....                            .
4 *   |   S   101                       44
Ow :lR _dnThuWvm           5)          %daus             43.                  41U      32.0       27.5
EdutaUsm                              WDu4D(t4                       ..        ..        ..4S
_by                       nd   s11                             III .0              102       1.6
-dWe        4                            boa                                                  25.4ttlaa7tm 41  41  418  .4
_4                                               75
dzuaImLan             pudkou.p*         171.7     232.0     234.4      64.1       78X9.



ANNEX I
KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS



-57-                                            ANNEX I
Table 1: Sulgarif. Key Wacroecoamic Indicators I/             Page  1 of 11
- Actual             -- --                          Projected- .-.-.-.-. --
1985    1986    1987    1988    1999    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995         2000
GOP in  mitlions current ltva       32595   3"424   36531   384    3947s   42000  1762so tM19 4  213588  234106  259075          44672s
COP in constsnt prices              42119   43891   46549   47765   4?637   42000   33842   34180   35206   36438   38078         49296
GOP Actual in millions USD          27391   24242   28101   22961   21690   1990s   lS4  11767   12243   12749   13627          19929
GOP Adjusted in millions USD        27391   24242   28101   22961   21690   19905   14688   15102   15713   16362   17489         25577
GOP Adjusted per Capita (in USD)   3054    2706    3132    2557    2413    2214    1634    1680    1747    1819    1944            2842
Consuwtion per Capita (in USOD       2083    1831    2159    1685    1637    1599    1075    1126    1141    1148    1196          1628
GOP lava price indice                77.4%   78.4%   783.   80.3x   82.9%  100.0%  5208X  s72.9%  606.7%  642.s%  6o.4%           906.21
GOP real growth rate                  2.7%    4.2%    6.1%    2.6"   -0.3X   11.8%  -19.4%    1.0%    3.02    3.5%    4.5s          5.5a
Exports CNFS reat growth                    -17.6%   13.42  -13.3%   -9.7%  -1S.5%  -24.3%    6.0%    6.s%    6.8%    6.9s          5.52
Ilports GNFS real growth                     -9.9.  12.5%  -15.7%   -9.52  -117.%  -36.62    2.0X    3.02    3.0%    4.0X           5.1%
Cross Investment/GOP                 32.22   35.9%   32.92   34.4%   32.2%   29.4%   27.12   23.5%   24.0%   24.7%   2- .1%        26.02
Oomestic Savings/GOP                 31.62   31.9%   30.1x   32.3x   29.5%   24.4%    8.7%   10.4%   12.2%   14.7%   16.22         22.77
Government Investment/GDP            11.42    S.6%   13.82   13.2%   10.0%   10.0%    4.4%    4.52    4.5s    4.7%    s.02          5.01
Goverrnt Savinsp/Gop                 10.62   10.9%   11.02    7.92    8.62 -3.3%   -5.4%    3.02    2.2%    2.3S    1.92            3.31
Non-Goverenwent Investment/GCP       20.8%   30.3%   19.1%   21.2%   22.2%   19.4%   22.7%   19.02   19.5%   20.0%   20.12         21.01
Non-Goverment Savings/GDP            21.1%   21.1%   19.32   24.8%   21.2%   28.22   14.7%    8.4%   11.02   13.32   1s.22         20.27
Goverrment Total Reenue/GDP          s4.4    58.8%   60.2    57.5%   60.1%   57.6%   35.1%   38.3%   38.3%   38.3%   38.32         38.32
Coverrment Total Expenditures/GOP   5S.22   61.4%   59.0%   58.42  61.6    71.3x   43.7%   39.8x   40.7%   40.7%   41.4%           40.0)
Goverrment Deficit/GOP               -0.X  -2.62    1.2%   -0.9%   -1.4%  -13.7%   .8.7%   -1.5   -2.3%   -2.4%   -3.12           -1.71
Current Account Samnce
(in millions of current USO)
Due basis                     -136    -9s2    -721    -402    -517   .889   -2035   -1429   -1326   -1161   -1080           .487
Cash basis                    -136    -952    -721    -402    .S17    -596   -1312   -1429   -1326   -1161   -1080          -487
Current Account Balance/GOP
Due basis          -O05%   -3.9%   -2.6X   -1.8%   -2.4%   -4.5% a17.8%  .12.1%  -10.8%   -9.1%    7.9*2                    -2.4'
Cash basis                    -0.5%    3.9%   -2.6%   -1.8%   -2.4%   -3.0%  -11.52  -12.1%  -10.B%   -9.1% *7.9%           -2.41
Debt I selected indicators 21
Debt outstanding                     4482    5909    7370    8554    9002   10177   12391    8881    924   10756   11493          13475
Debt Service 3/                      2137    2864    297      2810    3306    4067    4293    1423      749     990    1413        1959
Debt outstanding/GOP adjusted        16.4%   24.42   26.22   37.3%   41.5%   51.12   84.4%   58.8%   63.2%   65.7%   6S.7%         52.n7
Oebt outstanftEr Axports of CA$      38.6%   58.8%   62.8%   79.7%   92.7%  123.0%  207.8%  136.6   141.1%  142.1%  138.8%        105.55
Debt service/GOP adjusted             7.62   11.82   10.6%   12.4%   1s.22   20.4%   29s2%    9.4%    4.8%    6.12    8.1%          7.71
Debt service/Exports of GS           1s.4%   28.5%   25.3%   26.5%   34.02   49.1%   72.0%   21.9%   10.7%   13.12   17.1%         15.3)
Inturest payients/GDP adjusted        o.9%    1.2%    1.s%    2.2%    3.3X    4.0%    6.1%    3.32    4.0%    4.4%    4.72          4.01
Interest paywente/Exports of GAS      2.2%    3.0%    3.6%    4.7%    7.4%    9.7%   1S.0%    ?.8%    8.9S    9.4%   10.02          8.1)
1/ latance of payments figures were derived from consolidating UOP accounts in convertible currencies artd transferable rubles.
Transferable rubles figure  were converted into US dollar e4uivalents using the cross rate of exchange  of lava/transferabie
ruble and tevAU1.
2/ Debt in corvertible and non convertible currencies. The stock of debt shown for 1990 differs slightly from that Shown in the
test bhacuse it includes an estimate of non-convertibte currency debt.
3/ Debt service is on a due basis.



- 58 -                                         ANNEX  I
Table 2:  uslgaria. National Accounts at current prices       Page 2 of 11
(in aillion  of lava)
......         .*. A-ctuat                    * ..................... Pro     Je  ctedd ....................
1965    1986   1987    1988   1989   1990    t         199 199  19     14    1995        2000
........... ...................-.-.-.--...................--.,--.--.............. -es.... ..*...........................
GOP By setor
GDP at market prces             325    34424  36531   335   39475  42000  176250  195814 213588 234106  25907S            4673
WV at factor cOst               32445   33838  37743  40        4692  43917  165641  17633   19       210695 23167    402053
pricltuto I/                    39      4447   430    4394   4457   7356   3189  43471  47416  51449  55869              84191
lndutry                        2032   2U03S   32454  339  23432  21688  83976   031O   9"   105363  116601    198211
services, ete.                  8344   7942   9768   10572  11586  12956  53m8    6033  69576  m74   86605    164323
GP by use
totalt  pnditures               327Z9  3540  37301   38473  39478  42676  196624  214543  33005  247458  269455    4M512
Total consumption, etc          22234   23290  2511   25276  2677   30320  148818  168527 178944  19S33 204427    328361
aevmrm nt                       5725    6242   6496   6587   7069   7426   19808   25456  27766  30434  33680            s8O74
Mon govoertont                 16510   17048  18s68   18688  19708  33894  129010  143071  1sil1r 159300  170747    370289
Vross domestic iYnvStast        10495   13S50  12020  13197  12701  12356  4760   46016  51261  s7834  65028    116149
=enetrl Oovoerast              3723    1921    S05s   5073   3956   4211    7745   8812   9611   11003   1S294          32334
PrivatO and state otmgd        6m    10439   6965   8124   874s   814S  40062  37205  41650  4682i  52074                 812
ixports of Our$ 2/              13519  13944  14892  17481   17190  16732   87980  103017  116245  131617  149408    272597
IqOts of 1W6                    1365M   15166116    17609  17193  1?    108354  121747  132862  144968  159788    270383
esource balane                    -134    1216   o670   -128       *3   *676  -20374  -18730  *16617  *13352  -10380       2213
aross domestic saevne           10361   11134   113SO   13070  12498  11680  27432  2m87  34644  44473  54648    118362
Net factor nAMne                 *116   -330   *408   *716  -1078   -1471  -1375   n732   -9037  -10815  -13004         *16834
met current transfers             67      95     140    173    141    2n    2310   23330253    2846   28S2                3699
Oress notfie.   "ain            10333   10999  11083  12525  11760  10480   16467  22245   28137  36503  44496           105226
Net indiret Taxes                 151    585   -1212  -1881   *121?  -1917  1609   19581   21359  23I11   35907          4463
Indirect Taxes                  4311    5887   5056   4885   4902   4837  16287  23498  35631   28093   31089            53607
Susld1es                        4160    5301   6366   6767   6119   6754    5678   3916   4272   4662    5181             8935
Gress national produt           32480  34194   3613   37629  38397  40529  162975  188442 204551 23 29 4071    429891
koinal Exchange R9to LeveaUSo    1.19    1.42    1.30    1.67   1.82   2.11   15.40   16.64   17.44   18.36   19.01       22.42
GP atutl Cur. ofl. USO          27391   24342  28101   22961   31690   1990S   11445   11767  12243   12749   1362?       19029
1/ Aricwltfre, industrb  ad  rvice  defined at maera t pries.
2;1 Trade with convertible n nonz convertible area



- 59 -                                         ANNEX  I
Table 3: Bulgaria. National Accounts 8t c-rrent prices         Page 3 of 11
(as a X of GOP)
Actuat-*  -   ** -. ***.    Projected                              . .-.-. **.-*
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   1990    19"1    1992    1993    199      1095       2000
.................................................. .. ..... ...... ........................................................................................
GOP by sector
GOP at market prices        100.0X  100.02  100.0X  100.0  100.02  100.0X  100.02  100.02  100.02  100.02  100.O      100.0X
GOP at factor cost           9.s5   98.32  103.32  104.92  103.12  104.62   94.02   90.02   90.0   90.0    90.0X        90.01
Agriculture 1/              11.9X   12.9%   11.82   11.5S   11.32   1Z.5X  21.82  22.22   22.2X  22.02   21.62         18.82
Industry                   62.52   64.02   61.52   61.02  59.42  51.62   47.6X  46.12  45.2%  45.02   45.0X            44.42
Services, etc.              25.62   23.12   26.72   27.62  29.42  30.82   30.52  31.72  32.62   33.02   33.42          36.82
GOP by use
Total Expenditures          100.42  103.52  101.82  100.32  100.02  101.62  111.62  109.62  107.82  105.72  104.02      99.52
Total consuption, etc        68.22   67.72   68.92   65.92   67.82   72.22  84.42  86.12   83.8X  81.02   78.92         73.52
Government                  17.62   18.12   17.82   17.22  17.9%  17.7I    11.22  13.02   13.02   13.0   13.02        13.02
Ron Goverrfent              50.72   49.52   51.12   48.72  49.92  54.52   73.22   73.12   70.82  68.02  65.9X          60.52
Gross domestic investment    32.22   35.92  32.92   34.42  32.2X  29.42  27.12   23.52  24.02  24.72   2S.12            26.0S
General Goverrment         11.42    5.62   13.82   13.22   10.02   10.02   4.42    4.5X   4.5S    4.72    5.GX         5.0S
Private and state owned    20.82   30.32   19.12  21.22  22.22   19.42  22.72   19.02   19.92  20.02   20.12          21.02
Exports of GNFS 2/           41.52   40.52   40.82   45.62   43.52   39.82   49.9X  52.62   54.4X  56.2X   57.7X        61.02
Imports of CGFS              41.92   44.02  42.62  45.9   43.62  41.42  61.5%   62.22  62.2X  61.9X  61.7X              60.52
Resource balance             *0.42   -3.52  -1.82   *0.3X   0.32   -1.62  -11.62   -9.62   -7.82   -5.72    4.02         0.52
Gross domestic saving        31.82   32.32   31.12   34.12   V.2X  27.82   15.62   13.92   16.2X   19.0t   21.12        26.52
met factor income           .0.42    0.7X   .1.12   -1.92  -2.72   -3.52   *7.5X  .3.82   *4.2X   -4.62   -5.02        -3.82
met current transfers        0.32   0.32   0.42   0.42   0.42   0.62    1.32    1.22    1.2X    1.22    1.12            0.82
Gross national saving        31.72   32.02  30.32  32.7X  29.82  25.02   9.32   11.42   13.22   15.62   17.22           23.62
Net Indirect Taxes            0.52    1.72   -3.32   -4.9X   *3.1X  *4.6X   6.02   10.02  `10.0   10.02   10.02         10.02
Indirect Taxes              13.2S   17.12   13.82   12.72   12.42   11.S    9.22   12.02   12.02   12.02   12.02      12.02
Subsidies                   12.8X   1S.42   17.22   17.6"  15.52  16.12   3.2X   2.0X   2.02    2.02    2.02            2.02
Gross national product       99.62   99.32   98.92  98.12   97.32   96.52   92.52   96.22   95.82   95.42   95.02       96.22
.............................................................................................................................
1/ Agriculture, industry and services defined at market prices.
2/ Trade with convertible and non convertible area



- 60-                                          ANNEX  I
Toble 4; Sulgarie. Natfonal Accounts at constant 1990 prices      Page 4 of 11
- *    -actual                                    -        Proted..         .     .
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995        2000
,..............................................................................................................................
GDP by sector
Gross Ocmestic Product       42119   43891   46149   47765   41637   42000  33842  34180   35206   3638   38078           49296
Agriculture 1/                7849    9579    8177   8037   71    7356    7367    7588    7816    8011    8211             9290
Ind lstry                    21633   22757   23980   24563   25907   21688   14086   15764   1S92M   16400   17138        21872
Services, etc.               12637   11555   14392   15166   13849  12956   10389   10828   11468   12027   12729         18133
GDP by use
Total ExpendItures           4137S   44203   46808   *7?02   47597   42320   33068   33151   33923   34859   36226        6253
Total consumption, etc       29054   29705   32697   32208   34042   2994   24840   24708   2495?   25181   25810         31324
Goverruent                  5782    6398    7795    7891    8480    7426   4816    4443    4577    4737    4950          6408
mon Goverruent             23273   23307   24902   24317  25562   22538   20024   20264   20380   20444   20860         24916
Gross domestic investment    12321   16499   14112   1S494   13555   12356   8228   8443    8966    9679   10416          14929
Goverrent                   4370    2255    5935    5956   4222    4211    1333    1617    168i    1842    2075          2871
Mon Goverraent              7951   12244    8177    9538    9333    8145    6895    6827    785    7837    8341         12058
Exports of CUFS Zl           12826   10570   11987   10394   9388    7930    6001    6361    6?75    7235    7734         10486
rports of GlfS               12082   10883   12247   1U30   9348   8251    5227   S332    5492    5657    5883             7444
Resource batance               744    -312    -260       64      40   -320      774    1029    1283    1579    1852        3042
Net factor incoa              -149    .293    -520    -892   -1301   -1471  -2549   -1287   -1489   *1683  -1911          -1858
Not current transfers          113      121     179     215     170    271      444     407     417      443     419        408
Gross notioal product        42082   43719   46207  47088  46S05   400   31737   33300   34133   35198   36586            4786
Gross doeWstic saving        13064   14187   138S2   15557   13595   12036   9002    9473   10249   11257   12267         17971
Gross ntinat saving          13028   14014   13511   14880   12464   10836   6896    8592    9177   10017   10775         16522
Capacity to iaport           11964   10010   11720   10255    9346    7930    4244    4512    4805    S136    5501         7505
terms of trade adJustment     -862    -561    -267    -139      -41       0   -1757   -1849  -1970   -2100   -2234        -2981
Gross domestic Income        41257   43330   46281   47627  47595   42000   3208S   32331    3236   34338   35844         46314
Gross national income        41108   43037   4S7e6  46734  4294   40529   29537   31044   31747  32655   33933            44457
1/ Agriculture, industry end services defined at market prices.
2/ Trade with convertfble and non convertibte area



- 61 -                                          ANNEl I
Table 5:Sulgaria. eate, of Paynts Consolidated. I/             Page 5 of 11
(in milltons of current USO)
*---.....* Actual--           -----                   Projected.
1985   1986   198?   1988  1989  1990  1991   1992   199   1994   1995         2000
Convertible end non convertible
A. Exports of GNFS
1. Nerchandise (FOS)                   10314  8862  10297  9283  8221   7064  4889   5298   5702  6134  6725          10407
2. Non-Factor Services                  1047   958   IISS   1185  1224   866   824   693    961   1034  1133           1754
B. tiprts of GNFS                        11473  1067?  11970  10544  9447  8251   7036   7316  7616  7895   8405        12062
1. Merchandise (FOS)                   10818  10045  11309  9669  OR62  7574  6447  6704   6979  7234  7701           11053
2. Non-Facto: Services                  655   631    661   655   785   676   58P    612    638   661    704            1010
C. Resource Balance                       -113  -857  -515    -77    -2  -320  -1323  -1126   -953  -727  -546             99
0. Net Factor ticome                       -97  -162   -314  -429  -593  -697  -862  -443   S518  -589   -684            -751
1. Factor Receipts                       157   136   112    79   125   104    30    62    108   124   141               279
2. Factor Payments                       254   298   426   508   718   801    892    505    626   713   82S            1030
E. Net Current Transfers                   73    67    108   103    77   129   150   140    145    155   150              165
1. Current official grants                0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0         0
2. Transfers                              n3    67    108   103    77   129   1SO    140    145   155   150             165
F. Current Account Salance
Due Basis 2/                            -136   -952  -721  -402  -517  -889  *20.5  -1429  -1326  -1161  -1080         -487
Cash Basis                             -136  -952  -721  -402  -517  -S96  -1312  -1429  -1326  -1161  -1080           -487
0. Long Term Capital Inftows              -164   411   47S   1493    92  -2453  -1449   1645   1486  1331   1360          767
1. Direct Investment                      0      0      0      0      0      4     50    130    150   300   350         400
2. Net LT Borrowing                      509   1057   387  195S   523  -2828  -1793   1410   975    714   587           262
a. Disbursements                       2392  3623  2933  4287  3112   437  1608  2328   1098   991   1175             1191
b. Repaymnts Due 3/                    1883  2566  256   2        258   3265  3401    918    123   277   588           929
3. Net LT Credits Extended (.increase)  323   460   456   453   230  -177  -294  -1OS   -161   -217  -273                 0
H. Total Other Items (net)                373  -273    458  -50S   -206  2649  3984   -51    200    100   150             125
1. Net Short-Term Capital n.e.i.       -350  -185    543    -9  -201   194          0      0   200   100   150          125
2. Errors and omisslons4/              7m    -88   -85   -495    -S   590   911   -51             0      0      0         0
3. Prfncipal Rotled Over                  0      0      0      0      0   1864  3073       0      0      0      0         0
1. Change In ReServes (- increase)       -423    628   332  -S95   430   888  -500   -165   -160   -170  -280           -300
J. Foreign Exchange Reserves:
1. Internatieal Reserves (excL. gold)          1149   812   1430   978    113   615    780   940   1110  1390          2790
2. Gold (end-year)                              33    38    32    35    12    10    10    10    10    10                 10
3. Gross Reserves (including gold)             1182   8S0   1462   1013   125   62S    790    950   1120  1400         2800
4. Gross Reserws (in mths IP  GS)                1      1     2      1      0      1      1      1      2      2         3
Nominal Exchang Rate leva/WUS             1.19   1.42   1.30   1.67   1.82   2.11  15.40  16.64  17.44  18.36  19.01    2Z.42
1/ Historical balance of pataents figures were derived from consolidating BOP accounts In convertible currencies and transferable
rubles. Traisferable ruble figures were converted into US dollar equivalents using the cross rate of exchange of
Lava/Transferable ruble and Lva/US dollar exchange rates.
2/ The current atcct differs frm the one shown in the mediu term financing plan (table 3 in the text) from 1993 onwards
because in table 3 the escrow account is treated as a source of financing. In this table the escrow account is
included In interest received i.e. above the line.
3/ Repayments for 1991 are based on debt service schetuled at end 1989 and maturities previously rolled over.
/ Errors and omissions in 1990 inelude change in arrears (+378 mil USD) plus rolled over Interest payments.
in 1991 errors and omisiena fnclude Paris Club Rescheduling (688 mil of USD) and interest payments rolled over.



- 62-                                         ANEX I
Page 6 of 11
lable 6: Bulgaria. Money and Credit
(in millions of tlva )
* - * Actual. .                        *.      --.-.-.-.-..Projected.
1987      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992       1993      1994      1995        2000
.............................................................................................................. .....................
Anmuat Fiows
...................... .............................
International Reserves              -432       994        83      t1874      ?7o0      2746       2791      3122      5323        6?25
Net Domestic Credit                 3660      3096      4275      13397    39262      -7661       699       7858       8750      19920
To Coverfvent Budget              -180       515       688       8200     16017     37858       9493     28092    -23207        1S88
To Private Sector                 3840      2581      3587       5197     23245     30198      16490     3590      31958       18332
Liabiitiles
Noney and Queusimney              3272      4153       3210      7358     14562     59232      11303     13009      15832      29722
Not Other LiObittios     *       1556     .1860        679    .157%  *86709    .38717         -8079     .789       -6358      -7563
Ed-of -Year Stecks
............................................. 
International Reserves              106       1425       932        752      2640     13464      17008     20929     27051       63856
Net Orestic Credit                 45610     48706      52981     66378    10So40     9?9?9    104976    112834    121584       200494
To Govermr nt Budget              3174      3689      4377      12S77     28594      9264    *18757    *46850    -7005?       -57608
To Other Otficlal Sntities
To Private Sector                42436     45017      48604     53801     7706    10n44    123733    1S968'    19164t         258102
Liabilitles
Money and Quasimoney             35690     39843      43053     50411     64973    124205    135509    148518    164350       283373
Net Other Liabiltitea             4736      2876      3555    *12201    *98910   -157627   -165705   -173594   -1792    -212870
Memorandum Itas
International Reserves (mill USS)
Change during the year            -332       59S       -430      -888       500       165        160       170        280        300
Stock at ard of year               850      1462       1013       125       625       790        950      1120       1400       2800
....................... ............................................................................................................



- 63 -                                        ANNE I
Table 7: sulgaria. General Gcsrrant Budet.               Page  7 of 11
(In millions4 of 1e. t current price.)
-..-.........--  Actual.................... ....................Projected....................
1965    1966    1?    196       1969   1990   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995         2000
,..... -------................................ -*. ..........-.......-...   ....-  ............................
Otrect Tmes                        7544    7812    8370   9648   10619  10038  30104  35246   38646  42139   46633           80411
indirect Taxes                    4311    5887    5056   4885    4902   487   1628?  23496   25631   28093   31069           53607
wentax Recelpcs                    2728    3231    5066   3903   3385   4733   2751    1958    2136    2341    2591           4467
Other Receipts                     3166   3325    3484    3628   3806   43$6   12678   14334   15635   17137   18964         32700
Total Current Revenues          17748  20255   21976   22064   22912  23972  61820   75036  81847  89709   9927            m 1711
Intor      on Extornal Debt           0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0    2S82    3826    6854      12878
Interest an Domestic Oebt           27T    369      519     795    1208   4296   18170    9000   9000    8500    7800         8000
other Current Transfers            4118    4S95    46S7   4891    5140   6864   27616  30814   33611   36840  40769          68440
Subsidies                          4160    5301    6268   6767   6119   6754   5678    3916   4272    4682    51i'            8935
Consutmtion                        sns    6242    6496    6587   7069   7426  19808   25456   27766   30434   33680          58074
Total Current Expenditures      1480   16SO7   17958   19040   1"36  25340  71272   69186   77232   84282   94284         156326
Budgetary Savings                  3468    3748    4018    3025   3376   -1368   *9452    5850   4"1S    5428    4993        14859
..... ...... +....... ............._
Capital Transfers                  -2S4    5181   -1217  -1534      108   2621  -1179         0       0       0       0          0
Budgetary Investment               3722    1921    5055    5073   3956   4211    7745    8812    9611   11003   12954        22336
Totat Capital Expenditures       3468    7102    3838    3540   4064   6832   '566    8812   9611   11003   12954          22336
SurplusJOeficit aecruat baise 11  -254    a8m       431    -329    -563  -558  -15288   -2%2   4996  -SS7    -7960         -7477
Revenues                         17748   20255   21976   22064  23741   24172   61820   75036   81847   89M      99277     17185
Expenditures                     10OO2   21143   21545   22393  24303  29930   MO8   77998   86843   95Z8S  107238          178662
Cash DeficIt                       -254    -888     431    -329    -563  -3848  -3346   -2962   -496   -5575   -7960         -7477
Primary Deficit                      23    -519    950      46    646  -1462   2882    5442    5924    ?517    7724          15611
, ...
I/ The budget deficit in the World Sank RMSN-X model Is different from the historical deficit shown in this table since it ,ncludes
an unidentified extra finacing item frm the mnetary Wsrvey. the source of this Inconsistency between monetary and budget data
is being currently explored.



- 64 -                                        ANNEX I
Table 8: Sutgaria. General Goverremnt 8udet             Page 8 of 11
(se a percent of GOP)
--..---------Actual. ......               ..................... Projected ....................
1985    1986   198?   1918 1989    1          1991   1992   1993    1994   1995         2000
Oirect Taxs                       23.12  22.72  22.92   25.22   .4X  23.9   17.1    18.02 18.0X   18.02  18.02             18.02
Indirect Taxes                    13.22   17.1t   13.82   12.72  12.42   11.5X    9.22   12.02  12.02   12.0X   12.02      12.02
Montax Receipts                    8.4X    9.42  13.92   10.22    8.6X 11.3X    1.2    1.0    1.02    1.02    1.0          1.02
Other Receipts                     9.7?    9.72   9.52    9.52   9.62  10.42   7.2X    r.32    7.3X    7.32    7.32         7.32
Total Current Revems            54.   58.82   60.22  57.52  58.02  57.12  35.12  38.32  38.32   38.32   38.32           38.32
Interest on External Debt         0.02    0.02    0.0o    O.ox   o.ox   0.02   o.0x   0.02    1.22    1.62    2.62         2.92
Inte et an DOmstic Oebt           0.82    1.12    1.42   2.1X   3.12  10.22   10.32   4.62   4.22    3.62    3.02          1.82
Other current Transfers           12.62  13.3X 12.82  12.82  13.02  16.3215.S2  15.72   16.92   17.42   18.4S             18.22
Subsidies                         12.8   15.4X  17.22   17.621S.S5   16.12   3.22    2.02   2.02    2.02    2.02          2.02
Corammptlan                       17.6   18.1   17.8%  17.2X   17.92 17.7T  11.22   13.02  13.02   13.02   13.02           13.02
Totat Curent Expenditures       43.82   48.C0  49.22  49.72  49.2  40.32  40.42   35.32   36.2X  36.02   36.63           35.02
&x1getary Savings                  O.62  10.92   11.0X    7.9S   8.62  -3.32   -5.42    3.02    2.22    2.32    1.92       3.32
........... ................... _  _
Capitat Trowfers                  -0.82   15.12   -3.33  -4.0O    0.3X    6.22  -0.7X    0.02    0.02    O.X    0.02       0.02
Budgetary lnvestmnt               11.42    5.62  13.82  13.22  10.02  10.02   4.42   4.S    4.52   4.72    5.02           5.02
Total Caopftt Expedtures        10.6"  20.62  10.S5    9.22  10.3X  16.32   3.72   4.5X    4.52    4.7?    5.02X         S.0
Surplus/Deficit accrual basis 1/  *0.82  -2.62    1.2X  -0.92  -1.42  -13.7?  -8.72  -1.52  -2.3X  -2.42   *3.1X          -1.7X
Revenues                         54.42  58.82  60.22  5T.52  60.12  S7.6X  35.1X  38.3             t 38.32  38.3X 38.32  38.32
Expenditures                     55.22  61.42  59.02  S8.4S  61.62  71.32  43.7?  39.82  40.72  40.72   41.42             40.02
Cash Deficit                      -0.82   -2.6X    1.22  -0.92  -1.42  -13.72  -8.72  -1.52   -2.32  -2.42  -3.12         -1.7X
Primarsy DefIcit                   0.1%  -1.52   2.6X    1.22   1.62  -3.5X   1.62    2.82   2.82   3.22   3.02            3.52
........................................................... __
1/ The budget deficit in the World Bank RHM-x nmodel to different frem the historical deficit shown in this table since It includes
an unidentiffed extre financing item from the monetary survey. The swurce of this inconsistency betueen monetary and budget data
is baing currently explored.



TABLE 9:  BULGARIA EXTERNAL DEBT                                                                          AlRB I
MR.IA
(A11184)4xt01flPl Ca9itol and Debt labte                                                                                ~    ~~~~~~~Page  9 of. 11
_         EMOWernot Capitol ai1 Debt Tabte9          11         992        1993      1994       19        19 19     197        198       1909       z00f
A. Debt Stacks (10?)           ~~10320    12391      8881       9924     10756      11493      S19?      12281     12706      13088     13475
A. getS  CL00)                            10288      1191       78                                       1,06       11131     1 164     12039      12325
Poeglic  (et108L197                                             78O86W8939)                              10656     11131      11634     12039      1232S
off tiietl Critors                       2023       3058      4422       5135      S749       6242      666       6M71       6721       m89       6150
maltilaterals                  ~~       ~~~~018    73         973      1248       1566      1911       222       2517       2739      2933
01111tilat0ratS                                         a~~~~~ 0             0         0          0         0          0         0
l -                                       0         8160               75        ais       95S       1099      1220       1339      142        150
iltaterals                              2023       2900      3689       4162      4501       4674      4757      4S48       4206      3751       3218
Private Crediters                        8265       8859      3303       3230      3244       3613      3m98       4361      4913       5550  3 17
Crvae   editorS s                        826       889        1079       926        940      1309       1683      28)63      262?      326        39`13
Sends                                                 0      218a2184             2184       2184      21814      2184      2184       2184      2184
Other Prnvate                              0          0       120        120       120        120       t20        114       102         90        78
Pri        vate - anteed                     0          0          0      120         0                                                              0
Sbhrt-le.                                    32         tt         0        200       300        S00       S9        790       940       1025       1150
S. 6rorles Oisbirsemnt437                             1608      2328       1297      1191       1525      1466       150K4     112        11         99
i. senhDisueett                             437       1145      1715        737       631       1031      1068        924      1142       1181      1191
Lev-TioMb47                                          145        11         737       -631       1031      1048       924       112        1181      1191
POftic  rebt     or43s                               114S5     13T75       690       55         640       620        470       4"90       "0        440
OultilCterats                              0        tS8       57        240       275        320       350        350       370        320       320
BOtiAtea                                   0         0si      0S          000                       0               0          0         0         0
0BRO  O  t6o1     4001        1S        140       140        1S0       150        170       150       150
ilaterlal  Bs                            4T0        787       220        40        3          320       2"         120       120        120       120
private Creditors                         437        200       340         47        36        391       428        454       652        741       751
03        20          0        40        030                    0         0          0         0          0
0         0        100    0         0          0         0                          0         0          0
Other Private                              O          0       120          a         0                          0         0 
Private  xosranteed                          0          0         0          0         0          0      .             0         0          0         0
5hrt-let.0                                               0         0        200       200        3S0       420        580       650        700       W0
C. Principal EepsymEntS                     852        200       225        124       377        78        98"14a16                       1499      1604
L     arm                                   852        200       225          6        20        169       247        39          0        776       905
PtMic  debt                                852        200       22S         46        20        169       247         98       o40        n6        905
Oficiae  Creditors                         131         0        25         24        20        147       194       S38        540        67        779
Nulticlatedals                             0          0         0          0         0          0         7         39        75i       9         126
iDtAi  0rswate                                  0          0         0          0         0         0    a               0          0               0
IDA0                                           0         0          0               0         0          6        29         S1        62         74
ISber                                       0         0              0              10   20      0       is?       279     S       SW3 61S         ot
i laterals                               131          0        25         24                  18                  279 765              573        z65
Privte Creditors                           441       200       200         22         0         22        54        81        100        042       126
Crcial BN*s                              721        200       200         22         0        22          4                   -75  88   91140
Sends                                      0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0z        0          02
Other private                              0          0         0          0         0                         0          0 6  2121
private lnsuwranteed                         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
Sbort-Tcr                                    0          0         0         0B       1~0       200        275       385        Sw        618        67t
0. interest Pa~~~~ento           515i       169       55         626       713        825       874        90        998                  9103
0. Interestpayment~515                      152       S4 24                S74        671       73         782       833        876       914
Long-Ter  (III)                             515        15        447        524      1574        671       73         78        833        876       91
Officia  Crditr                             91        67        186       267        316       396        426       445       458        453       440
off tialaerwtals                            0         6         34        66         86       110        136       163        188l      209       227
wiDtiA  es0                                          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
1UA                                       0         5         27        47         57        68         79        90        100       108        115
too la as9                                           1       11         21        230        287       290        282       270        244       213
PriateCreia   ors                        92          85       261        257        258       275       306        337       375        423       474
Cerwcial Banks                           424        as         82         72        74        91        122       15192422
Sands                          ~     ~ ~ ~~~~~~~0  0  175     175       175        175       175       I7S        1TS       175        175
Other Private                              0         0          5         10        10        to         10        13                    0          7
private *wonuranteed                         0         0          0         0000                                                 000
Short-term                                    0         0          0         8         24        38         53        71        89        103       114



TABLE 9: BULGARIA: EXTERNAL DEBT (CONT'D)                                                                       ANNEX I
(N131-Ext4mu  cqStd  wiDOebt table                                                                 .Page  10 of 11
1990      199       192       1943      1992      1995      199S      1997      1998      1999      2000
E. Oft Somee                             1367       369       I30   rso          1090      113       1858is              2317      2188      2633
Lue-Tem  LTDS1)                          1367       352       672       S70       S94       841       97       1t80      1473      12        1819
PmhlIl Debt                             1367       352       612        7o       S94       841       979      1s80      un        162       119
Official CrudStar                       222        67       211       292       336       S44       619       762       990      112S      1219
mdtIltteals                             0         6        34        66        06       110       143       202       U23       30        353
IDA                                               0         0         0         0 0                0         a         0         0         a
two                                     0         5.       2?        47        S                   84       119      lSt        170       139
Itt,ala                                m         61        117       226       20        434       47        S61       735       a7         1
Privat Creditor                           S       285       461       279       25S       297       360       4t8       415       S27      .660
Csr_elt 3&s                          I14A       2         232        94        74       113       176       223       279       332       46
Bonds                                    0         0       175       175       115       115       115       175       11        175       115
otbr Prlvate                             0         0         5        10        le       1e         0        11        21        20        19
Private eUnerated                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
SUbt-Tera                                   0         0         0         a       124       23        32        4S6       SW        7s        78
1. aet flows                             .41S      140       2103      1173       814       m         48        3S        424       32        387
tom-Ter                                  -415       94S      1490       691       611       862       801       526       S2        405       286
Ptic Od*t                               -elS       945      1490       691       611       862       801       S2        S02       40        286
Official Creditors                     -131       945      13SO 5     6         S15       4         46        *52        SO      -23         39
Neltilaterais                            0        118     S51       240       2h5       320       363       311       295       221       194
IDA                                     0                             0         a         0         0         0         0         0         0
18QD                                    0       160      408        5IS       140       140       144       121       119        as        76
Bilateral.                            .131       787       71S       426       300       173        83      -159      -345      -453       5S33
Private Creditoes                      .234         0       140        25        36       369       374       373       552       637       62S
Cinrcio  Banks                        -284         0        20        2S        36       369       374       379       S64       649       637
9ands                                              0         0         0         0         0         0         0                  0         0
otber Private                            0         0       120         0                   a         0        -*6      -12       -12       .12
Private argurmnteed                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Sbert-lerm                                  0         0         0       200       1o        1         14S      t19        150        Is       12S
S. Net tIrmfers                          .930      1239      1S98       54?       1O0       -88      -390      -553      -525      -607      -662
Lene-lex                                 .-930      793      1043       167        37       190        69      -256      -331      -471      -62
Public Debt                             -930       793      1043       167        37       190        69       256      -331      -471      -628
official Creditoms                     -222       a78      1164       398       259        96         1      -292      -08       -685      -79
maltilatuels                             0       152       S41       ;14       109       210       207       14        107        12       -33
IDA                                     0         0                                                
IDA                        0         0~~~~~55 37         0          0        0         0         0         a         0         0
lERD                                    O      155       379         68        83        12        66       31         19      -20       -39
9itatera s                            -222       726       623       224        70      -114      -20?      -441      -61S      -697      -746
Private Creditors                      -708       .85      -121      -232      -222        94        66        36       17T       214       1Sl
Cuclat 8ents                           706       -85       -62       -47       -38       278       252       226       373       409       34S
knds                                     0         0      -175      -175      -115      -15        175      -17S      -175      -11S      -1175
Otker Private                            0         0       lS       -tO       -10       -10       -10        t6       -21       -20       -19
Private Albsuranteed                       0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         O         0         0
Short-Tem.                                  0         0         0       192        76       112        92       124        61       -U1        It
O. Arrears 0t    fr1rat)                  422       174         0         0         0         0         0         0         0    O              0
tom-tom  t                                422       174         0         0         0         a         0         0       .0          0         0
tic Debt                                 422       174         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
official Creditor                       422       174         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
multloterals                             0         0-        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         a         0
IDA                                    0          0        0          0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
mum                                     o        0         0          0         0         0        0         0         a         0         a
silateris                              422       174         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Private Creditors                         0         0         0         0         0         0                   0         0         0         0
C_ercifat anks                           0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         a         0
Bos                                     0          0        0          0         0         0         a        0         0         0         0
Other Private                           0          0        0          0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0
Private Wmuarenteed                       0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Short-Ter2                                 0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         a         0



TABLE 9: BULGARIA: EXTERNAL DEBT  (CONT'D)                                           ANWX I
RSARIA                                                                                                                                               Page 11 of 11
Abar eS. Projected Arres,. Rese llnga etd eActlo  In Debt ewd Debt ServIce (In ditlies of USt)
A. 131st11  PAIhS                         1990      1991      92       1993     1994               1996      1997     1998      1999     2000
1. tntett  Due Per 0us PPlln               498      148       110       so        69       s?        48       34        24        13        S
2. Lme trot Saved thtu DM t R*"li            0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        a         0
3. Phu  tat an Artearajbetrontil             0        3       234       254      26        278       7        2t4      22        260      243
4. Ptls Interest an ew LT Debt              1?       69       1Se       23?      279       336      A0        474      53?,      603      66
S. PtuI tnterest  n St Det                   0                  0        a        24        31       Ss        7   .    89o      103       114
6. Pius ltf aro                              0        17       St        94      1iS       1s        89        54       2?        10         2
7.  SIb-Tot: Interest Per SW               51S       237      560       673      m         824       74       9r       949        89      103
8. tea   Interest Ares (.aecl-red)           0       -21        0         0        0         0        0         0                          0
9. Less Iatet Reebebled                      0       J9        5S        4?       40         0        0         0        0         0         0
10. Lea  tnterest frwgien                     a        0         0        0         a        a         0         0        0         0 
11.  Sdoote t2 ntert Itot Paid                0       68        SS       47        40        0         0         0        0         0        0
12.  SniTs Interest   UoId                  515      169       S05      62        713       824      874       907      949       98       1030
B. DISMSE_tS
1. Disburwwnts Per ORS Pilnp                 0        0O        0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0
2. Plus Dldsbusnts an Wei Lt Debt          437      114S     171S       73?      631      1031      1W0       924     1142       18l      t19t
3.. of bchb: 0sb. for Debt teuztion          0        0         0         0        0         0        a         0        0         a        0
4.  Sub-Tet; LT Dlab. Per SOP              43?      1145     17tS       737      31      031      1018      924     142        181      1191
S. Ptus bet Short-Ieo  Capitat               0        a         0       200      100       SO      14S       "9       150        8S       12S
7. Eqaals lotat DSdb_isants                437         8     2328      1297     1091      1325      113      1119     1202      1286      1316
C. PlulcwAs erEsMtS
. Principal Due Per DR Pipeuin             852      47?       42        151      120       127      1         130      130       130       136 S
2. tess Prh Saved thru  ebt e t.             0        0         0        0.        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
3. Plus Prln an Arrewrs/estwtD SR            0        0        72        20       20        20       20        30      t85       22!3      266
4. Plus Principal an  wLT Debt               0         0        0         0        0        22  .   100       238      36        43        503
S.  Sub-Tot: LT P'nciprll Per S0P          852       4?       501       m        140       169      247       398      640       n76       "S9                   5
6. Plt  INf q ureh m                         0        a         0        ?.7     is?       419      4Z        366      228       10         24
7.  Eqato lotal Printipat Rep nt           852       47?      SOl       248      39?       So       709       764      8         o8       929
a. tLs PrinsiptA Arrears (acci-red)          0      .248     -122         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
9.  Om Principel tescbted                    0       525      346       12S      120         a        0         0        0         0        0
10. Less P.rineipat ttgivm                    0        a         0        0         a        a         0        0         0        0
11.  Wsbrlte  Prfelfpt IW ftld                0      27        224      125       120        0         0        0         0        0         0
12. Equals Principal Ptid                   #S2      200       27       123       27       Sus       70        76"      8         S        929
0. MT WTSTAetiUs (ad perwid)
1. Long-Tere OW     ORS Pipeline          9851     999    10164       1411      126      1142        l6      835       705      576       440
2. Of mic:i   s 1mislt Prin. Arreas      390      411       411      411       411      411       441      411       411      411       411
3. Lots Neduc. from Vorivness/00U            0        0      8124        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
4. Plus Coneli. fn Nestructlfl9              0      614      3179     3331      3470     3SO,    32          33,9     3         3m22     2156
5. Plus le. Prin. Arre  (.eccl-red)          0      -248     -411     411      6411      -411     -411      -411     *411      -41,     -411
6. Pits Nw LtT Ot                          43?      1582     329?      43       465       5674     68Z2      730      S9         882     9540
7. Pits ther-t-e  WM                        32       II         0      2a0       300      450       5so       M        90       1025     1150
S. of dich: Irt. A". rM  yet4C1it.          32        11        0        0         0         0        0        0         O        0.        a
10. Totetak OetSts         8 OldWed       1ow2      129        m1      9        1075      1149     1         1231     18 Wm      307     13475
11. of dAieb:ota Arrows ltntJPrin)          42       174                  00                 0         0        0        0         0 
1. DEBt St0     RAW U        CILIATIO  ITEl:
1. Esissh_ ' tetq  cts an OOP la                      0         0        0         0        0         0
2. Adjust.  m to ktWrte-offs                 0        0      4140        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0



AiqtE II
=T= OF DEVELPIT POLICY
An SAL I POLICY NATRIZ



REPUBUC OF BULGARIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE                - 68-
102 Rakovski ft., 104I Sofia
Telex 22727, Telefax 801148
Mvr. bat oer u otiatLve
fPresizientv
Thte World banl,.
Watshlngton, tD.C. ;:(J43.1
Dear Mr. Fie^idents
1.        We r;squest a Structural Adjusitment Loan from The World
Fank in tte amount of USS 250  millioon equivalent in support of the
Governniwrati economic: reform program. The main el,tments of this re-
fou,m program and the specific policy measures taken or to be taken
iti th: nwar- teitm atre elaboratedU ft Llie ottached Letter of Develop-
nient Policy.
2.         'tthe primary goal of our reform program is to establish
an officitont mnatrket baied economy. Ihis will r4uifW d fuwidamen-
tal thft eway 4rofm c6n"tr  pl ldtmisigy towardc a Mora democratic
for m uf economic manage6ment where private sectort initiative plays
the lead role iin ,sltrwiiiiiaiyi the allocation and use of resources.
The main task of the boverriment will be to reduce niacroeconomic
imbalances and to lay the foundations for sustained growth and the
r estoration of cred&tworthinees overt the medium-term. We are con-
fident that we have initaterd a pretgram that will achieve these ob-
jectives. We are aware that we will thave to go trough an Initial
period of contraction and adjustient, and in responce, have put in
pILe 1a system of social benefits, incLuding unemployment pay and
pension%# which will prevent vulnerable graups falling bellow a
desirable lwvwl uf teal income.



- 69 -
2.        f~As you are aware, we are inmplenmenting our economic re-
form program during a particularly difficult per-iod. l'he short-
term neqativc economic *percustions that wo eNpoected La follow
the dramatic; political tchanges that occured in 1990, have been
coi"lidera&lyV worsened by ekt*;rn-nal wvnts beyond our control. The
disublution o+ the CMEAt the widespread oconnmir rnntractiot, in
E>L Eurt-ne  (porticularly the USSR), arid Ltho GuJf crisls, have all
had a large negative effect on our s,mal1  hist tr-rtfF  dapondont;
eccisu.tuy. Thus far, we have not allnwFrl these e'tsrnal shockc to
moderate the implementaticon o** or our commitment to, our economic
rrnot'AM. Tho pop4ulAtion hav0 chahwf eafmfia94kblb "'Wlv: its %LMwLiriy
a 1etXte decliie in their real incomes in support of the reform
e*fort. Nevertheless, we will require s"bstantial external assis-
tatwce over the  iext few years to allow us to rebuild our econoMy
SLJ a  to become a fUlly Integrated and creditworthy member of the
WOt1d econumy.
4.        it i5 in this rnntext that we are veeaking official
assistance fr0nf a number ot donors, including the World Bank. The
prciposed S;AL would provide part of thp resour-es needed to modera-
te the impact of the external sit4h dktil maintain economic acti-
vity at an acceptable level.
Ivan I(ostuv
MttihLetrt uf Fitranc.0



- 70 -
AMNEX 1I
Page 1 of 20
CONFIDENTIAL
July 5, 1991
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I. Introduction.
1.       The current Government was appointed in November 1990, with a mandate
to initiate an economic reform program designed to create a competitive market
economy. We have already implemented the key components of a stabilization
program and taken important structural adjustment measures. While we realize
that the transformation of our economy will be a lengthy process, we feel that
these actions demonstrate the Government's capacity to take difficult, but
necessary, measures. We intend to make further progress over the coming
months and to continue to work closely with the World Bank staff in defining
specific elements of the program.
2.       We are implementing our economic reform program during a particularly
difficult period.  First, the economy is being subjected to massive external
shocks. The dissolution of the CMEA trade and payments system and the
economic disruption prevalent throughout Eastern Europe have imposed higher
costs on the Bulgarian economy than on any other East European country. This
is due to the heavy dependence of our economy on trade with CMEA member
countries, particularly the Soviet Union. In addition, the Gulf crisis has
substantially reduced our income from transport and construction contracts
with the Gulf states, and curtailed the repayment of debt by Iraq to Bulgaria
in the form of oil deliveries. Second, the suspension of debt service
payments by the Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank (BFTB) in early 1990, has
severely reduced access to foreign financing, including the hard currency
trade credits required to sustain trade to convertible currency markets.
Third, the far reaching political changes that began in late 1989 and the
subsequent delay in taking the necessary reform measures during 1990, have
caused domestic dislocations and increased uncertainty. To moderate the
impact of the external shocks and maintain economic activity at an acceptable
level, we are actively seeking assistance from external sources. It is in
this context that we request a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) from the World
Bank.
3.       As a result of these factors the performance of the economy
deteriorated rapidly during 1990. Real GDP declined by 11.8 percent in 1990,
with real consumption and investment declining by an estimated 12 percent and
9 percent respectively. Inflation accelerated to an annual average rate of
26 percent during 1990 from less than 10 percent in 1989, fueled by a growing
budget deficit, wage increases and a large monetary overhang. The external
situation also worsened, reflecting a large decline in export earnings, a
bunching of debt payments, and the virtual depletion of foreign exchange
reserves. Total exports and imports declined by 16 percent and 12 percent
4vn lQQn   ThA limited access to foreign financing constrained the



- 71 -
Page 2 of 20
current account deficit with convertible currency countries to an estimated
US$1.1 billion in 1990. This was primarily financed through a drawdown of
foreign exchange reserves and total external debt increased to about US$10
billion by end-1990, reflecting mainly the capitalization of interest.
4.       To address these problems the new Government embarked on a
comprehensive reform program in January 1991. The current economic crisis
does not provide us with the opportunity to take a gradualist approach to
ref-t- Hence the steps taken to restore macroeconomic stability are being
quickly supported by the measures required to encourage the overdue
restructuring of the economy. Over the medium term, these efforts will
establish the conditions for a sustainable increase in living standards,
reverse the current increase in unemployment and restore international
creditworthiness. We are fully aware of the magnitude of the adjustment that
is required and the difficult external circumstances within which the
transition of our economy must occur. Nevertheless, there is widespread
support in society for our program, and Parliament continues to pass the
necessary critical legislation. We realize that continued progress will be
essential in order to demonstrate our commitment to reform and to establish
credibility in the international community.
5.       More specifically, our economic reform program is designed to achieve
the following broad objectives:
(i)   Reduce macroeconomic imbalances to a sustainable level and
restore international creditworthiness.
(ii)   Increase competition and create a set of market based relative
prices, through price liberalization, trade policy reform and
demonopolization;
(iii)   Develop an efficient private sector, through reform of the
domestic regulatory and incentive framework, and the
progressive privatization of state owned assets - including
agriculture, services, and small and large-scale enterprises;
(iv)   Develop a modern banking sector capable of supporting the
restructuring and privatization of SEs and the emerging private
sector;
(v)   Restructure those SEs which remain in the public sector,
whether temporarily or permanently, through reform of the
management and ownership system and imposition of financial
discipline.
(vi)   Improve energy efficiency and reduce environmental damage,
through corrective pricing and legislative measures and the
development of a capacity to coordinate strategic policy making
in both areas.
(vii)   Establish a social safety net which prevents incomes falling
below subsistence and promotes employment mobility.



- 72 -
Page 3 of 20
II.  Macroeconomic Policies
6.       The macroeconomic component of our reform program comprises of
measures to reduce internal and external imbalances, both in the short- and
medium-term, and to return to a sustainable growth path. We are also taking
steps to strengthen our institutional capacity to formulate a medium term
macroeconomic framework, including a viable financing plan. In support of our
near-term stabilization program we have reached agreement with the IMF on a
Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) (effective March 1991, for SDR 279 million). The
IMF is also providing a Compensatory Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF) to
offset the costs of higher energy prices (effective February 1991 for SDR 93.2
million). We anticipate that the medium-term objectives of the macroeconomic
reform program will be supported by the World Bank, via the proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL US$250 million) and Technical Assistance Loan
(TAL US$17 million).
(a) 'tabilization Policies.
7.       A detailed account of our stabilization program is provided in the
Letter of Intent, submitted to the IMF in support of our request for a SBA.
In brief, it is centered on the following measures.
(a)  Adoption of a unified floating exchange rate system, determined
by a decentralized inter-bank market, and the liberalization of
all prices - except those related to energy products and some
other public utilities.
(b)   A tripartite agreement between all social partners to limit the
increase in nominal wages in the government and state owned
sector to a proportion of the anticipated price increase in a
social minimum basket of goods. We originally expected that
this agreement would result in a reduction in the average real
wage by about 35 percent during 1991, but have subsequently
revised this estimate to 50 percent.
(c)   Implementation of a budget that reduces the consolidated fiscal
deficit from over 9 percent of GDP in 1990 (on a cash basis) to
a surplus of 0.1 percent. Due to serious shortfalls in
revenues and a larger than envisaged decline in economic
activity, the revised budget aims at a cash deficit of
1.9 percent. The budget provides an adequate level of social
safety net expenditures.
(d)   Limiting the expansion in net domestic credit to 23 percent in
nominal terms, which will result in a targeted 77 percent
decline in real terms.   Our monetary program allows for an
expansion in net domestic credit to the nongovernment sector,
by using most of the foreign borrowing of Government to reduce
its debt to the domestic banking system. In addition, the
basic interest rate was raised to 45 percent in February 1991
and subsequently raised to 52 percent in June 1991, in order to
make lev denominated assets more attractive and to reduce the
demand for hard currency.



- 73 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 20
8.       We are aware that the adoption of a flexible exchange rate, coupled
with price liberalization, increases the importance of limiting the growth in
nominal wages and maintaining financial discipline if our stabilization
objectives are to be met. We intend to continue to restrain the growth in
nominal wages to secure the necessary decline in real wages and to keep
nominal domestic demand in line with the overall macroeconomic framework. We
also intend to strictly adhere to the monetary and fiscal policies agreed with
the IMF, in order to reduce inflationary pressure and stabilize the exchange
rate.
9.       Given the exceptional degree of uncertainty concerning economic
developments during this transitional period, we have agreed to regularly
review our policies in these areas with the IMF. The first SBA review mission
from the IMF visited Sofia in early May and their preliminary view is that
stabilization is basically on track. However, the program is being
implemented in an external environment considerably more difficult than
originally anticipated. This has imposed a much heavier cost on the economy
in terms of output, price, real wage and exchange rate developments.
Nevertheless, a watershed development has been the low inflation rate recorded
in both April and May. In view of these developments, we have formulated an
additional package of measures in agreement with the IMF. Monetary policy,
the budget, external policies, and incomes policy have been modified so as to
tailor domestic demand to expected availabilities. We still anticipate the
monthly inflation rate to converge to the targeted rate of 1-2 percent for the
second half of the year, and to preserve the prospect of a recovery in
economic activity during the latter part of 1991. We fully intend to continue
to meet the macroeconomic targets agreed with the IMF, under the on-going SBA.
(b)  Medium-Term Macroeconomic and Financing Framework
10.         In the medium-term, we expect that our reform program will result
in the restoration of economic growth and a sustainable balance of payments.
The development of the private sector, increased competition and the movement
to a set of market based relative prices, will increase productivity and
direct new resources to high return activities. We anticipate that
agriculture and services will register the first supply response, stimulated
by the return of land and other assets (including retail outlets, transport
and hotels) to private owners. Foreign investors have already expressed some
interest in these sectors, particularly our tourist potential. By contrast,
it will take time for the industrial sector to recover from the disruption
caused by the breakdown in CMEA trade and the sharp contraction in domestic
demand. As the future growth of manufacturing will depend on increased
exports to more competitive markets, it will take time and resources Lo
reorient our current industrial structure. Nevertheless, the radiccl change
iU our regulatory/incentive framework is expected to lead to a new more
efficient private sector developing alongside a contracting state sector. On
the external side, we anticipate that trade will begin to expand in 1992,
after a significant contraction in 1991. Imports are projected to increase by
an estimated 3 percent p.a. over the period 1992 to 1994, pr;marily due to the
investment demands of the industrial sector and the need for imported inputs
into the agricultural and service sectors. Exports are estimated to expand at
about 6 percent p.a., reflecting the gains in competitiveness which will
result from the decline in the real wage and gains in efficiency.



- 74 -
ANNEX II
Page S of 20
11.      In aggregate, we anticipate that economic growth will begin to resume
during 1992, after a significant decline in real GDP this year (estimated to
approach 20 percent). We anticipate that growth could be sustained at about
5 percent p.a. between 1992 to 1995, if the reform program remains on track
and sufficient foreign financing is forthcoming. We estimate that will run a
substantial cumulative non-interest current account deficit over the period
1992 to 1995 in order to finance the transformation of the economy, plus
rebuild oor foreign exchange reserves. We do not expect that the financing
gaps that arise in this period, inclusive of interest payments, will be filled
by private loans. Thus support from the international community and a
resolution of our debt problem will be crucial if investment and access to
imported inputs are to be maintained at a level consistent with our growth
targets. In the absence of external support, the domestic costs associated
with implementing the reforms may undermine its sustainability.
12.      In order to improve our capacity to monitor macroeconomic
developments and to develop a financing plan, we have strengthened our
institutional capacity in three ways: (i) To obtain an accurate assessment of
the size and characteristics of our external debt, we have established a Debt
Information Group (DIG); (ii) A Debt Manage-ent Committee (DMC) has also been
formed, to develop a debt strategy and to present this strategy in
negotiations with our external creditors; (iii) An Agency for Economic
Programming and Development (AEPD) has been established to integrate the work
on external debt within an overall macroeconomic framework. These groups will
be supported by a Japanese Grant Fund for Firnancial Technical Assistance
(administered by the World Bank), supplemented by technical assistance from
the World Bank. These groups became operational in July 1991.
13.      Finally, it is clear that our program will require significant
financial support from the international financial institutions and bilateral
donors over the next few years. In order to mobilize this support we will
establish an Aid Consortium Group, comprised of the major official
participants. To initiate this process we have requested the World Bank to
chair and to organize the first meeting by October/November 1991.
III. Competition and Market-Based Relative Prices
14.      The measures taken in the area of price liberalization and the reform
of the foreign exchange system represent a major step towards establishing a
market-based set of relative prices. On February 1, 1991, all prices were
liberalized, except energy products (electricity, heating, propane-butane gas,
coal, and petroleum products) and some other public utilities. The prices of
energy products, which account for about 10 percent of retail and wholesale
turnover, were raised substantially in both February and June 1991 (see
section on enargy and the environment). These price increases bring the price
of petroleum products into line with world prices and reduce the subsidy on
electricity and coal to less than 3 percent of budget expenditures. We have
adopted a radical approach to both the reform of the foreign exchange system
and price liberalization in order to quickly reduce the real value of the
existing stock of money - thus reducing the exceptionally large monetary
overhang - and to correct systemic relative price distortions. These measures
were also necessary to initiate the long overdue structural transformation of
the economy and gain an assessment of the real value and competitiveness of
state enterprises - a precondition for privatization. The Government believes



- 75 -
Page 6 of 20
that the economic benefits associated with our foreign exchange system and
price reforms would be reduced if domestic producers were not exposed to
international and domestic competition. Therefore, we have undertaken a
comprehensive and radical reform of the trade policy regime and initiated an
economy-wide process of demonopolization.
(a) Trade Policv
15.     Trade policy reform is needed to reorient domestic production away
from its previous reliance on the highly protected CMEA market, towards
activities where Bulgaria has an actual or potential comparative advantage.
This will ensure that our international trade reflects the efficient use of
domestic resources and not, as in the past, the outcome of a complex web of
subsidies and taxes. In the medium-term this will encourage an increase in
productivity and a higher rate of export growth.
16.     As a first step, the system of quotas and administered prices have
been replaced with a system based primarily on tariffs. All quantitative
restrictions on imports were removed in February 1991, except for those on a
small negative list (e.g., tobacco, military equipment, antiques). With
regard to exports, the large number of export bans and quotas in effect in
1990 were reduced to only 21 banned items and externally imposed quotas in
March 1991. The remaining bans have been imposed on basic foods and are
viewed as a temporary measure due to domestic shortages. The export quotas
are mostly in response to externally imposed constraints (e.g., EC textile and
meat quotas). The quotas are being allocated on a competitive basis to the
firms that obtain the highest price from EC firms. In addition, an export tax
of 20 percent has been imposed on 27 items (mostly industrial raw materials
and clothing) and a 30 percent export tax on 6 items (basic foods) - as a
temporary measure to alleviate domestic shortages.
17.     We intend to terminate all subsidies to exports previously
denominated in transferable rubles duriuLg 1991, after the elimination of
outstanding balances from trade agreements made in 1990. FAr 1991, we have
agreed upon an indicative list of goods with the USSR that both parties will
recommend to tLeir enterprises as mutually beneficial. However, enterprises
will be free to Ietermive prices, which are now denominated in dollars, and
trade directly with any buyer. The trade covered by goods on the indicative
list with the USSR will be effected under a clearing arrange:wnt in US
dollars.
18.      Gilen the removal of non-tariff barriers, the tariff structure has
become much more important. The Bulgarian tariff schedule has basically two
tariff rates for each item depending upon the origin of th? imported good.
For Tmports from LDCs, the average unweighted economy-wide tariff is
6.' percent. For imports from countries granted IFN status, the average
tariff is 8.7 percent.1 In addition, the exemption from import duty of 29
LDCs, Finland and USSR under the previous regime will continue a. a
transitioua. measure for 1991. The tariff schedule provides for a moderate
degree of escalating tariff protection by type of product, with average tariff
If Th mgeat tcitff schedsU contai   taird colhl Whib to appUcable to those natimo not granted HNO
statu. The avrwage tari#f iL ewAh higher, estiated at 28.2 percent. Iower with the sionef of the
trade _ar.mt vith thoUSg there iN no coutry which cells Into thin cetegory.



- 76 -
A.NSE -TI
Page 7 of 20
rates for MFNs of 5.9 percent on intermediate goods, 7.4 percent on capital
goods, and 13.3 percent on consumer goods. In addition, we have imposed a
15 percent temporary import tax on some commodities (mostly consumer goods) in
order to protect domestic producers during the transition period.
19.      It is our intention to undertake a comprehensive analysis of the
existing trade regime and have requested the Bank to support the study via the
Technical Assistance Loan (TAL). The terms of reference have been agreed and
the selection of consultants for s   study have been initiated.  On the basis
of the results of the study, expecvz4 by late 1991, we intend to formulate a
program to revise the tariff and trade regime. Meanwhile, during 1991, we
intend to remove all remaining export bans, except those required for national
security reasons, and to reduce or remove export taxes when domestic supplies
increase.
(b) Danononalizati
20.      The Government has started the demonopolization of large state firms
to promote competition, reduce barriers to entry for new firms, and prevent
cross-subsidization of enterprises within firms. We consider the break-up of
such firms a necessary step toward a market economy and the privatization of
enterprises. The process of demonopolization was started in 1990 and a
program for accelerating the demonopolization process in all sectors was
recently developed under Ordinance No. 54 of the Council of Ministers of April
3, 1991. In agriculture, most State Trusts were broken-up in November 1990.
Proposals to demonopolize the tobacco and grain Trusts are under review. In
industry, some 130 industrial conglomerates and trusts had been identified for
break-up by April 30, 1991, of which plans for breaking up 83 firms are at
various stages of completion. The program developed by the Ministry of
Industry, Trade and Services (MITS) calls for the respective decentralization
and demonopolization of the remaining conglomerates and trusts by end-1991.
In domestic trade, the break-up of conglomerates and trusts has been largely
completed, and restrictions on trading have been lifted for almost all
products. Major progress has also been made in the decentralization and
demonopolization of firms in transport, construction industry, and tourism.
21.      We intend to take steps to improve the management of the new
enterprises by developing their boards of directors, and by appointing the
majority of board members to assure proper representation of the ownership
interests of the State. Newly established enterprises facing difficulties
will have to develop restructuring programs demonstrating their viability, or
face liquidation and the iale of assets. We recognize that the break-up of
large firms by itself will not create a sufficiently competitive environment
in Bulgaria, particularly in abolishing certain product-specific or regional
monopolies (especially for agricultural goods). To this effect, emphasis is
placed on the program of import competition and dismantling food monopolies.
22.      We intend to abolish all State monopolies with a few exceptions such
as railroads, and will submit by August 1991 a bill to the National Assembly
specifying witich activities may be carried out on a monopoly basis. No State
monopoly will be transferred as such to the private sector. Abuse of monopoly
power (and dominant market positions) by State or private enterprises will be
controlled in accordance with the Law on Protection of Competition, which was
enacted on May 2, 1991, as a central component of the regulatory framework for
prLvate sector development. We will further develop the legal and



- 77 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
institutional framework for the protection of competition, including a
Competition Commission with the necessary autonomy, power and resources
(including staff), and courts appropriately strengthened to handle this new
type of case.
IV. Private Sector Development
23.      In the drive toward a market economy, we consider the development of
a dynamic and large private sector to be central to the reform program. To
achieve this objective, we have adopted a two-pronged approach: (i) developing
an incentive and regulatory framework conducive to, and supportive of, private
sector growth; and (ii) privatizing state owned assets--including agricultural
land, and small and large enterprises.
(a) The Regulatory Framework
24.      We regard the measures that have recently been taken in the areas of
price liberalization, the foreign exchange system and international trade as
major steps towards creating an appropriate macroeconomic environment for
efficient pr-ivate sector activity. These initiatives have been supported at
the microeconomic level by the removal of major constraints on labor mobility
and employment limits, abolishing restrictions on the allocation of bank
credit, and allowing private firms (including fully foreign owned companies
and joint ventures) to register under modern corporate forms, such as
partnerships, limited liability companies and joint-stock companies.
25.      To create a positive environment for private sector development, we
will continue to develop the legal framework for business activity and the
institutions needed for its effective and fast implementation. Our first
priority is the new Constitution, which has already been drafted. It will,
inter alia, protect private property as inviolable and g'aarantee free economic
initiative by private agents.
26.      To further strengthen and develop the foundations of our new market-
based economy, we have prepared a comprehensive package of economic reform
laws. A first group of laws will clarify property rights. We recognize that
such rights are the cornerstone of a market economy. We intend to grant the
highest priorlty to the development of a new property rights system, including
(i) redefinition of the concept of State property, (ii) clarification of
rights of previous owners whose property was nationalized or otherwise
confiscated, and (iii) establishment or strengthening of mechanisms and
institutions for the transfer, registration, protection and enforcement of
property rights. In this context, we have already adopted an Agricultural
Land law and plan to submit the other property-related laws to the National
Assembly by the end of 1991 (see paragraphs on privatization and State
enterprise restructuring below).
27.      A second group of laws deals with the basic pillars of a free-market
system and would reinforce and further develop the reforms initiated with
Decree 56 and other business-related legislation enacted in 1989 and 1990. In
this context, new laws have already been enacted on accounting (passed in
January 1991), the protection of competition (passed in April 1991) and
foreign investment (passed in June 1991). We have also adopted a new
commercial law (passed in Nay and enacted in July 1991), which covers
commercial activities, including incorporation, functioning and liquidation of



- 78 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
companies, and auditing requirements. Other laws have been or will be
submitted to the National Assembly over the next few months in the areas of
taxes, budgeting and expenditure control, banking, intellectual property,
cooperatives, social security, environmental protection, as well as laws on
the legal profession (court system, lawyers, etc.), local government, and
public auditing. We further consider public procurement regulations as
important and plan to submit a bill in this regard to the National Assembly by
end-1991. In the case of all these laws, we intend to pay greater attention
to the implementation and enforcement of the new laws, including the
establishment or strengthening of the institutions responsible for their
implementation.
28.      We have enacted a new foreign investment law which establishes the
principle of equal treatment of foreign investors relative to national
investors. In implementing this law, we will not introduce restrictions on
foreign investment in sectors other than those explicitly mentioned in the
law. We further intend to facilitate international arbitration for the
settlement of disputes arising between foreign investors and the Bulgarian
public sector. In the context of an overall foreign investment strategy, we
also intend to review and assess incentives granted to foreign investors
relative to advantages granted to Bulgarian i-ivestors and to the treatment
granted to foreign investors by other countries of the regioal.
29.      In order to prepare a consistent body of legislation, we have
established a Council for Normative Acts at the Council of Ministers which
will develop legislative priorities and coordinate technical assistance, and
have initiated an external technical assistance program under the World Bank-
financed Technical Assistance Project to provide legal expertise in support of
the Council.
30.      While many of the formal constraints to private sector development
have been removed, difficulties are still likely to persist due to the small
size and lack of experience of the domestic private sector. To address this
issue, ee will undertake a review, during the second half of 1991, of the
remaining barriers to private sector activity and develop an appropriate
action plan to remove them. For example, we will take measures to reduce the
delays for registration of new businesses to less than one month. We will
also review the feasibility of creating or promoting business advisory
services, to provide assistance to small businesses on prevailing legal,
accounting, tax and other matters (e.g., management skills development,
technical information, norms and standards, etc.).
(b) Privatization
31.      We are committed to a far-reaching privatization of the economy as
one of the cornerstones of the reform program. On February 22, 1991, the
National Assembly passed an Agricultural Land Law which established the
regulatory framework through which land will be returned to its previous
owners or sold. The law stipulates that land cannot be sold for three years
(in order to curb speculation) and that a ceiling of 20 ha (low lands) and 30
ha (mountainous regions) per household will be placed on the returned land.
In order to encourage the development of the land market and the creation of
sustainable farms, leasing of land will be permitted.



- 79 -                                 AN=  II
Page 10 of 20
32.      On April 25, 1991, the Council of Ministers approved the implementing
regulations to the Agricultural Land Law, which completed the necessary
legislative framework for clarification and restoration of land ownership
rights. In the meantime, land owness have been registering their claims with
the municipalities based on cadastral records and other relevant documents.
The implementation of the Law would be supported by a 5 million ECU technical
assistance package financed by the PHARE program. In addition, US AID is
providing co-financing (US$10 million) to the World Banks SAL, the local
currency equivalent of which will be used to offset the budgetary costs of
implementing the land reform during 1991. We inteuid to return about
20 percent of the total cultivated land to private owners by December 1991 and
substantially complete the process by December 1992. It is anticipated that
private farmers will be more motivated to increase productivity and incomes
than under the old system.
33.      Small privatizations are important to begin the process of developing
the private sector. Sales through auctions of (i) assets of enterprises, and
(ii) small units or establishments under the auspices of larger firms, are
already allowed under current legislation, and initial sales of enterprise
assets have already taken place. We have initiated a program for sale of
small state-owned retail establishments and taken the necessary preparatory
steps to start pilot auctions--including the identification of establishments
for sale, the engagement of asset valuators, and the advertisement of such
establishmonts for auction. We completed the initial auction of gasoline
stations and shops in June 1991. We have asked the municipalities to provide
us with action programs for the auctioning of retail establishments presently
under municipal management and will provide them with clear guidelines and
authority to carry out such auctions. It is our intention to launch auctions
for a significant number of these establishments before the end of 1991, and
to develop the 1992 program for such auctions by end-1991. Based on the
experience with the initial auctions, we will review and streamline
procedures. Financing arrangements are being developed to facilitate the
purchase of small assets and units by private individuals and btusinesses.
34.      We intend to adopt a framework for privatizations of large
enterprises and for sales of parts of enterprises through means other than
auctions by end-1991. We have formed a Special Committee, headed by one of
the two Deputy Prime-Ninister to guide the initial stages of the large
privatization program. We have also established the new 'rivatization Agency,
and appointed its head and a few staff. We will clarify its mandate and role
vis-a-vis other Government ministries and agencies. Further, we intend to
address three key ateas necessary to bring about large privatizations:
strategy formulation, legislation, and an implementation program. The
preparation of the overall privatization strategy will be the responsibility
of the Special Committee. The strategy will delineate the pace and modalities
of privatization in all sectors of the economy and for all sizes and types of
enterprises, and outline the institutional arrangements for privatization.
The strategy will reflect a flexible and multi-track approach regarding: the
forms of privatization (including leasing and concession arrangements, and
full and partial privatizations); the procedures for initiating
privatizations; the procedures for transacting and monitoring privatizations;
the terms of sale. It is our intention to adopt such a privatization strategy
by end-September, 1991.



- 80 -
AM II
Page 11 of 20
35.      The main objectives and mechanisms of this strategy will be reflected
in a Privatization Law, which is currently under consideration in the National
Assembly. The detailed procedures, regulations and institutional arrangements
for the implementation of the Law will also be drafted by end-1991. As part
of this activity, we will develop a program for the implementation of the
privatization strategy. The program will outline the detailed tasks and
timetable, the responsibility of various governmental bodies, and details on
the enterprises to be prepared for privatization in 1992. We further intend
to initiate without delays, privatization of enterprises that may be carried
out under the present legal framework.
36.      To achieve the goals of the privatization program, extensive
technical assistance is needed. We have initiated an external assistance
program, financed by the EC-PHARE program, to assist in launching the auction
program of small establishments, to develop the enabling framework for large
privatizations, and to strengthen the Privatization Agency.
(V) Baok"& ftatem Refgrm
37.      Recognizing that the financial sector is underdeveloped and ill-
equipped to serve a market economy, we intend to undertake a comprehensive
restructuring of the banking system. A number of problems plague the current
banking system and hinder it from providing efficient financial intermediation
services. These problems include: (i) a legal and regulatory framework not
adapted to the new conditions; (ii) a weakly structured banking system; (iii)
a large number of nou-performing loans and undercapitalized banking
Institutions; (iv) organizational and managerial weaknesses of banks; and (v)
state ownership of banks.
38.      LAI * d  PlulatoXX       nrk.  Substantial progress in establishing
the legal and regulatory framework of the banking system has been achieved
already. The law on the Bulgarian National Bank, confirming the introduction
of a two-tier banking system and the independence of the Central Bank from the
treasury, was adcpted by the Grand National Assembly in June 1991 and will be
enacted in July,1991. The draft of the law of Banks and Credit Activity
(Banking Law), allowing universal as well as specialized banking, has been
presented to the Assembly, and should be passed no later than February 1992.
Enabling regulations to these laws will be issued soon after their enactment.
To ensure the stability of the banking system, the Banking Supervision
Department within. BNB is in the process of designing banking supervision
standards suited to a modern banking system. It is anticipated that regular
on-site and off-site inspections using these new standards will begin latest
by end-1991. BNB will develop its banking supervision capabilities with
assistance from international agencies. A new Accounting Law applying to
both, enterprises and financial institutions, became operational in April
1991, and a corresponding Chart of Accounts for banks is being prepared for
introduction in 1991. Also a Securities Law is being prepared and will be
passed, by the Grand National Assembly, within the next few months.
39.      Reat==ing of the Bankng Sytm.  In 1987, seven new banks were
established and some of the more than one hundred former BNB branches were
incorporated into them, while others were transformed into independent
financial institutions in 1989. All banks, with the exception of the State
Savings Bank (SSB), have been converted into joint-stock companies. As a
result, the banking system now consists of too many and often too small



- 81 -
Page 12 of 20
banking units, many of which exhibit an unhealthy regional and/or sectoral
concentration of their loan portfolios as well as strong linkages with other
financial and non-financial enterprises. Household deposits and credit remain
concentrated in the State Savings Bank (SSB), the second largest bank in the
country.
40.      To address these problems and to provide a "blue print" for the
future development of the banking system, we intend to launch a "Study on the
Structural Issues of the Banking system" in 1991. The study will be financed
under the technical assistance operation of the World Bank. In addition, we
plan to set up a temporary holding company (Bank Consolidation Company - BCC)
latest by end-November 1991, to manage the consolidation process, taking into
consideration the recommendations of the mentioned study.
41.       The major initial function of BCC will be to organize a merger
progrra, intended to reduce the large number of weak financial institutions to
no more than about ten economically sized entities.  To this end, the shares
of all banks, presently held by BNB, and other entities with majority
Government shareholdings, will be transferred to BCC.  These shareholders will
replenish their portfolios with shares issued by BCC.  Since BCC's shares will
initially reflect the combined value of the banks' shares it has received, an
exchange of shares on a one-for-one basis will be justified, thus avoiding a
valuation problem.  SSB will not participate in this program; decJPiotr.S on its
role and organization will be taken separately, based or :he recommendations
of the Study on Structural Issues. The scheme has the advantages of: (i)
clearly identifying a responsible 2ga4c to initiate the merger process; (ii)
concentrating the voting power in this single agent, thus facilitating the
mergers and future bank restructuring process; (iii) introducing the
possibility of capital gains, due to the potential success of the
consolidation effort; and (iv) breaking the interlocking relationships that
currently exist between the banks, their shareholders, and their clients. To
ensure the success of the scheme, its characteristics will be fully explained
to the public at the outset, and it will be handled in a transparent fashion.
42.      For the development of the program, including the identification of
banks that should be merged and the legal and organizational requirements to
carry out the mergers, the BCC will use technical assistance from the World
Bank. The transfer of the shares to BCC is expected to be completed by end-
January 1992.  In its first operations, BC  .'s expected to concentrate on
Institutions that are unable to comply wit' the major requirements of the new
prudential banking regulations, including capital adequacy. In the meantime,
BNB will continue to apply strict criteria for the licensing of new banks and
limit such licenses to exceptional cases that provide substantial net foreign
exchange inflows and new banking technology and skills.
43.      Financial Restructuring of Banks.  Many banks suffer from doubtful or
non-performing loans against which no or inadequate provisions have been made,
they have a weak capital base, and they do not have the institutional and
organizational capacity to effectively operate in a market-oriented system.
In this situation, it will be difficult to privatize banks, an important
objective of the Government. Therefore individual banks are likely to need
financial restructuring, including portfolio clean up and recapitalization, as
well as institutional strengthening to prepare thim for privatization.  The
voting power concentrated in BCC will facilitate this process.



- 82 -                                 NWU II
Page 13 of 20
44.      The strategy we have adopted for the financial restructuring of the
banks is the following: the Government will formally guarantee to the banks
the principal and interest payments for all non-performing loans which were
granted to the state enterprises before December 31, 1990 (presently estimated
at Leva 17 billion), plus any interest capitalized on such loans since January
1, 1991. This step should be completed by end-August, 1991. The Government
will provide additional guarantees as and when additional bad loans (from
among those granted before December 31, 1990) are identified by BNB's Banking
Supervision Department. The banks will be allowed to capitalize interest on
BNB deposits in an amount equal to the capitalized interest on loans (BNB in
turn will capitalize interest on SSB deposits in BNB). The banks will remain
responsible for the collection of the guaranteed loans, including their forced
collection through litigation, and will receive a reasonable and adequate
commission on any overdue amounts collected on these loans as an incentive to
take action.
45.      In parallel to the above, thorough reviews of the loan portfolios of
the banks will be initiated by BNB's Banking Supervision Department. The
department ill be advised and assisted by international experts who will also
provide 3n-the-job training in banking supervision, including on-site
inspectior. techniques. In addition, for banks participating in the merger
program, audits of their opening accounts, according to international
accounting standards and by independent external auditors, will be required
through prudential regulation as soon as their merger is completed. For banks
that do not participate in the merger program, audits of their 1991 accounts
will be required latest by May 1992. Banking regulation will also require
that all audits include portfolio reviews classifying the banks' portfolios
into loans performing normally (i.e. according to schedule), and non-
performing and doubtful loans.
46.      On the basis of the portfolio reviews and the decisions taken in the
enterprise restructuring process, we will decide, in consultation with the
banks, BCC and the Privatization Agency, which of the guaranteed loans are
uncollectible and need to be written off. The write offs will be made against
the banks' liabilities to BNB that will be compensated with government bonds.
For write offs exceeding liabilities to BNB, the banks will be compensated
with government bonds with long-term maturities and variable market interest
rates. The fiscal burden resulting from issuing government bonds will be
distributed over several years because the bonds will be issued at the time
the losses are identified, i.e. over an estimated period of 4-5 years, and
they may have a maturity period of up to ten years. The fiscal costs during
these years are expected to be covered by the proceeds from the privatization
of the public enterprises. As an alternative to government bonds, we may
guarantee bonds issued by a Fund which will have the right to all receipts
from the sale of state enterprises.
47.      The financial audits and portfolio reviews will also determine the
banks' basic financial viability, and on this basis, strengthening of the
banks' capital base may be necessary to ensure that they comply with
prudential regulations and that they become financially viable and
sufficiently attractive for privatization. We will decide case by case which
banks will be recapitali?,ed and whether recapitalization is needed befors
privatization or should be left to the new private owners of the banks. We
believe that it will be possible to recover the resources needed for this
purpose entirely or to a large part from the proceeds of the privatization of



- 83 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
the banks and, if necessary, from the privatization of nor financial
enterprises. However, the need for fiscal support cannot be excluded. To
control these fiscal costs, dividend payments by state banks will be suspended
for 1991 and until a decision on the banks' recapitalization needs and plans
has been taken.
48.      To avoid bank portfolios becoming contaminated again after they have
been cleaned up from non-performing loans, the banks will be prohibited to
lend to public enterprises that are in arrears with any of the banks, with the
exception of loans financed from funds provided by the Government/BNB
specifically for this purpose and carrying a formal lovernment guarantee. To
facilitate the implementation of this policy and for general use by the
banking system, BNB will establish a Credit Information Service. For any
other lending, the banks will bear the full credit risk and bank managers will
be responsible for their independent credit decisions. However, safeguards
will be built in through strict enforcement of banking regulations which will
provide for adequate provisioning against doubtful and non-performing loans.
49.      Institutional-Develogment and Supgort Services.  As a further step to
the consolidation and restructuring of banks, changes in bank management and
organization will be encouraged and facilitated. In this connection it will
also be necessary to implement institutional changes with respect to the
future role, organization and functions of SSB, particularly household and
housing finance. We intend to facilitate these developments through the Study
on Structural Issues of the Banking System, direct technical support services
and institutional development studies on individual financial institutions,
carried out subsequent to each completed consolidation. The latter studies
will identify the banks' major institutional (non-portfolio) constraints and
recommend detailed action plans as a basis for their development into market-
oriented, competitive institutions. They will be carried out by teams of
experts from international management consulting firms. This work will begin
by end-l991 and be completed by March 1993. We estimate that substantial
progress will be made in implementing the measures of institutional
strengthening and development within a three years period.
50.     As the restructuring and consolidation of the banking system needs to
be completed within a relatively short period, it is desirable to provide
vital support services and training to banks. We intend to make the following
services available to the banks as soon as possible but not later than October
1991: (i) management advisory services by resident consultants to provide
practical short-term assistance on mergers and on issues that arise in the
every-day management of banks; (ii) preparation of a feasibility study for
the establishment of a Bankers' Training Institute and training of trainers
and bank personnel; and (iii) preparation of a feasibility study for the
establishment of a bank payments clearing system. Financing for these
activities will be available from the World Bank technical assistance loan and
other sources.
51.     EPrvatization of Banls.  The existence of BCC will not only
facilitate the merger of banks and the cleaning up of their loan portfolios,
but also their privatization. In principle, the privatization of banks would
be carried out by BCC which, in consultation with the banks, would sell the
bank shares it is holding to private parties. In this respect, we intend to
lmplement the following strategy which would be monitored by BNB's Banking
Supervision Department: (i) The banks (with immediate effect) and BCC will not



- 84 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
be allowed to sell any shares or enter into any acquisition or joint venture
agreements before the merger program has been implemented; (ii) after
implementation of the merger program, BCC and the banks will be free to sell
shares to foreign parties and the banks will be free to enter into joint
ventures or acquisition agreements with foreign parties at any time, subject
to an adequate valuation of the banks' shares; (ili) the sale of shares to
domestic private investors will be allowed, subject to the condition stated
under (ii) and after the banks have been financially restructured, their
accounts have been audited by external independent auditors, based on
international accounting standards, and the Banking Supervision Department of
BNB is generally satisfied that the bank in question is financially viable.
Any sales of shares will be effected in compliance with the new Securities
Law. BCC would use the proceeds from the sale of bank shares to repurchase
its owr shares and this would terminate its operations and existence. While
it is difficult to predict when the banks will be ready for privatization, we
expect that the process will be a gradual one and that substantial activity in
this area will start developing in the second half of 1992.
(VI) State Enterprise Restructuring
52.      Given the large size of the state-owned sector, it is clear that many
state enterprises (SEs) will remain under government control in the near term.
We therefore attach great importance to increasing the competitiveness and
efficiency of SEs, while protecting the nascent private sector. This
necessitates that action be taken to enforce State ownership rights, adopt
management practices which enable SEs to function efficiently, place the
business operations of SEs and private firms on an equal footing, and
restructure those SEs which will be viable in the medium term. We fully
recognize that these objectives need to be achieved within a framework which
imposes strict financial discipline on SEs.
(a)  mwnershio and ManaLement of State EnterorLges
53.      According to the Bulgarian Constitution and law, State Enterprises
(SEs) are owned by the State. In practice, however, management boards and
managers in most enterprises are elected. directly or indirectly, by their
employees. In many cases, the Government has also not used its rigbt to
appoint its representatives in the management boards of SEs.  As it other
countries, the self-management of firms has created ambiguity concerning the
interests of the owners, management, and workers of enterprises, and has often
led to the pursuit of short-term goals rather than the long-term viability of
firms. We therefore intend to develop a program for improving the oversighb.
and management of SEs, with emphasis on measures to: (i) develop an
appropriate institutional framework for exercising State ownership rights in
SEs, (ii) strengthen the corporate governance systems in SEs, including
development of boards of directors as strategic organs, and improve management
capacity; and (iii) convert SEs into joint-stock companies. As part of the
program, we intend to develop measures which would create business conditions
which are similar for SEs and private businesses. The Ministry of Industry
and Technology will chair an inter-ministerial committee charged with
developing such a program during the second half of 1991.
54.      As part of the program, we will clarify the ownership rights of the
State over SEs and develop the institutional framework for exercising State
ownership rights in SEs. As an initial step we have made it clear that



- 85 -
ANNEX XI
Page 16 of 20
Article 24 of decree 56, which specifies that the state should have majority
representation on the board of directors of SEs, is effective and overrules
any guidelines that may have been issued. We further intend to develop
appropriate incentive systems and training programs for SE managers. We have
initiated an external technical assistance program to help design and
implement the aoove measures.
55.      To facilitate the conversion of large SEs into joint-stock companies,
the National Assembly has abolhed the previous moratorium on such
conversions. Currently, sectoral ministries can approve such conversions on a
case-by-case basis. We intend to carry out a number of conversions on a pilot
basis in the seconl half of 1991 and develop a more comprehensive program by
end-1991. We also intend to review and revise existing regulations pertaining
to labor, wage and procurement policies for SEs.
56.      To maintain strict financial discipline in the state enterprise
sector, the enforcement of bankruptcy procedures and the initiation of
liquidations of unviable firms is an important component of our program. This
will require well-functioning bankiuptcy procedures to permit an efficient
process of liquidating unviable firms. Decree 56 contains provisions for
bankruptcy, which have not been applied so far. While those aspects of
financial discipline related to wage controls, bank credit ceilings and
reduction in budget subsidies are explicit parts of the ongoing stabilization
program, further attention will be given to monitoring the financial position
of enterprises, including inter-enterprise credit and arrears. In this
regard, we intend to develop the monitoring system within the Ministry of
Finance to provide early warning signals for SEs in financial difficulties, as
the basis for corrective measures. It is our intention that the system would
be operational by January 1992. We have initiated the necessary external
technical assistance to help develop such performance monitoring system. We
intend to take further measures by end-1991 for containing the growth of
int'ir-enterprise arrears.
57.      The rapid improvement of the enterprise accounting system is critical
for improving the financial information of enterprises, and improve the
accountability of enterprise managers for their actions and results. As an
important first step, the National Assembly adopted a new Accounting Law on
January 3, 1991, for which implementation started as of April 1, 1991. The
Ministry of Finance will develop by end-1991 a medium-term program for
implementing the new system, and for development of the accounting and
auditing professions. For this purpose, it has initiated the necessary
external technical assistance program.
(b) Industrial Restructuring
58.      The industrial sector is facing a major crisis as a result of the
drastic changes in external market conditions, the drop in domestic demand,
and the rapid changes in the Bulgarian business environment (including the
combined effects of price liberalization, subsidy cuts, and the tight credit
policies). The structure of the industrial sector will take time to adjust to
the new economic environment and the survival of many enterprises is at stake.
In response, we intend to develop appropriate policies and guidelines for
restructuring the industrial sector, and. a clear strategy and criteria for
restructuring enterprises facing difficulties--including closure of non-
-4"1 i -.^*i-,ar*na  T,Us will establish a screening process for identification



- 86 -                                A=  II
Page 17 of 20
of enterprises which could be privatized as soon as the necessary legal and
institutional framework is in place, those which should be restructured prior
to privatization, and those which should be liquidated. The Ministry of
Industry, Trade and Services, through preliminary analyses, has tentatively
identified about (30) enterprises for privatization and about (20) enterprises
for liquidation. The Government would only play an active role in
restructuring those enterprises that will remain as state enterprises in the
medium-term. The Government's intervention in restructuring of these
enterprises, therefore, would not interfere with the privatization process.
As part of our overall industrial restructuring efforts, we would promote the
development of new private sector activities.
59.      A number of industrial branches are in such a critical situation that
special attention is warranted. These include coal mining, ferrous and non-
ferrous metallurgy including ore mining, some divisions of chemical and
petrochemical industries, heavy machine building, and electronics. We intend
to carry out comprehensive reviews for such branches during 1992, in order to
develop strategies for branch restructuring in each case. We have initiated
an external technical assistance program to help with the preparation of a
ssctor strategy for restructuring, development of branch- and enterprise-
specific restructuring strategies, and establishment or promotion of
supporting institutions.
(VII) Energy Policy and Environmental Issues
(a) Energy Poleiv
60.      Energy has been heavily subsidized in Bulgaria, with prices kept low
relative to international prices. Relative energy prices have also been
distorted, with electricity and heat prices low relative to petroleum
products. Consequently, the energy intensity of the economy is substantially
higher than in other European economies. Previous energy policy aimed at
reducing the dependence of the country on imported energy by increasing the
use of low quality domestic coal and lignite, which in turn has caused severe
environmental degradation.
61.      In response we raised the prices of petroleum products by 100 percent
in July 1990, and effective February 1, 1991, we increased energy prices by
between 200 percent to 800 percent for various products. In June 1991, we
increased energy prices again to reflect the movement in the exchange rate and
to constrain the projected fiscal burden to less than 3 percent of GDP. These
adjustments have considerably narrowed, and in some cases eliminated (e.g.,
gasoline), the differences between domestic energy prices and international
prices. Some subsidies remain in the case of electricity, heat and coal
prices for households; we envisage further price increases which will reduce
these subsidies further in 1992.
62.      The Government's policy is to allow free imports and exports of
petroleum products and to take steps towards the deregulation of petroleum
product prices. In the interim, we intend to adopt procedures for regular
review and adjustment of petroleum prices to keep them aligned with
international prices plus transportation, storage and distribution costs.
Similar procedures will apply to coal prices. We also intend to establish a
regulatory process for utilities, whereby tariffs will be kept aligned with
the long-run marginal cost of production, transmission/transportation and



- 87 -
Page 18 of 20
distribution for electricity and heat, and the cost of impori, transportation,
storage and distribution for natural gas.
63.      We recognize the need for the development of a detailed energy policy
and the restructuring of the energy sector. In order to improve the plant-
level management of the sector, the Government will delegate all operational
decisions to the enterprises in the sector. We also intend to assign overall
responsibili-y for energy policy development, coordination and oversight to a
committee, chaired by a Deputy Prime-Minister. To strengthen institutional
capabilities, we also intend to set up an Energy Policy Unit reporting to this
committee. The unit will focus on strategic planning and institutional
reforms in the energy sector and support the formulation of energy policy.
(b) Environmental Issues
64.      The high energy and material intensity of production is a major
source of environmental degradation in Bulgaria. In addition, previous
investments in air and water pollution control have been very limited.
Thermal power stations, metallurgical and chemical plants and other industrial
activities are the major sources of pollution. Industrialized urban areas
suffer from high particulate matter concentrations in the air and S0O
emissions becau,.e of the poor quality and high sulphur content of local coal
and lignite. Serious local air quality problems exist due to emissions of
toxic pollutants from non-ferrous metallurgical plants. Inland surface waters
and the Danube are significantly polluted. The main pollutants are
petrochemicals, ammonia, organic compounds and nitrites.
65.      The Government recognizes the need to address these problems
urgently. However, the improvement of the environment must be linked closely
with the systemic restructuring of the Bulgarian economy. Effects of the
recent liberalization of most prices and a several fold increase of energy
prices are still unfolding. It is expected that the true economic cost based
prices accompanied by hard budget constraints for the industrial enterprises
will lead to increased efficiency in the utilization of natural resources.
66.      A Law on Environment is being drafted.  While the current legislation
allows for free discharge of pollutants within the permissible limits, it is
planned that the new law will stipulate pollution charges even within these
limits. The new law will also clarify environmental assessment procedures for
investments, urban development plans and regulatory actions and the
participation of the public in the environmental assessment process. In order
to improve monitoring and enforcement capabilities in the sectox, the
Government is currently being assisted by the PHARE program of the European
Community. PHARE will finance the purchase of environmental monitoring
equipment for Bulgaria, in several stages, with a total indicated budget of
18.5 mlllion ECU. We recognize the need for the development of an
environmental strategy for the country and would seek assistance from the
World Bank and other multilateral and bilateral agencies in this area.
67.      In addition to the Ministry of Environment, there ar.e several
agencies which have important functions in the area of envirmnmental
protection in Bulgaria. The Minietry of Health and the regional sanitary
inspectorates monitor the health effects of environmertal pollution, the
CommLssion on Water Resources allocates surface water to users, the Committee
on Geology licenses the use of mineral resources and the Committee on Forests



- 88 -
Page 19 of 20
monitors the status of flora and fauna. We recognize the need for the
coordination of these agencies in order to avoid the duplication of efforts,
to facilitate the flow of information and the development and implementation
of a national environmental strategy. Therefore we have decided to assign the
role of coordination in the environmental sector to the Hinistry of
Environment.
(6) Human Resource Development and the Social Safety Net
68.      Large-scale redeployment of labor is an inevitable part of the
transition to a market economy. To mitigate the impact on individuals and
families and to ensure that political support for rapid -conomic change is not
compromised, the Government has created a safety net comprising of
interrelated measures in the areas of income maintenance, employment services
and job creation, training, education, and health.
69.      Income suDoort.  The Government is committed to ensuring a minimally
adequate standard of living for individuals and families adversely affected by
the reform process. Given acute resource constraints, however, poverty relief
must be achieved at minimum cost. We therefore intend to ensure that benefits
are tightly targeted on the most needy individuals and families, and that they
offer incentives conducive to work effort. The objective of poverty relief,
however, remains paramount. To that end, we will, by July 1991, (a) provide
income support not below subsistence, and corresponding budgetary funding,
through the package of measures described below, (b) ensure that during
restructuring, residual liability for financing benefits falls on the central
government budget, and (c) provide sufficient resources for -ie effective
administration and delivery of benefit.
70.      Given the likely numbers of unemployed, we recognize that
unemployment benefit should be tightly targeted. Therefore we will take
measures to ensure that unemployment benefit will be payable only to
individuals who have lost their job, (in the case of new entrants,
particularly school leavers, an employment subsidy may be payable to employers
for a limited period), and that any tax preferences and interest subsidies to
encourage employment will be targeted and strictly limited in a financial
scope. Currently, unemployment benefit is paid at a level correspodning to
20 percent of the excess of the recipients basic salary over the minimum wage.
In addition we will introduce a decree to make substantial progress towards
unemployment benefit paid (a) at a flat rate not below subsistence, and
(b) for not longer than 12 months. Such features are to be kept in place at
least until the end of 1992.
71.      Given the importance of pensions in terms both of expenditure and of
the protection they provide for a particularly vulnerable group, targeting is
again vital. We will adhere during 1991 and 1992 to current policy whereby
the minimum pension (inclusive of price compensation) is not below
subsistence. When the forthcoming Social Security Act is approved by the
National Assembly, an earnings test condition will be applied for receipt of a
pension. Pensions will be fully protected against price inflation, and a
strictly enforced -etirement condition for receipt of retirement pensions will
be implemented. By March, 1992 we will have introduced into Parliament a law
which (a) phases in an equal retirement age for men and women, (b) increases
over time the minimum retirement age to not less than 60, (c) ensures that



- 89 -                                 AJ.
Page 20 of 20
disability pension is awarded only on medical grounds, and based on the extent
of disability, but not on its cause.
72.      Further to improve the incentive structure of present and future
pension arrangements, we will by March 1992 (a) introduce annual pension
accrual factors which are more closely actuarial than current arrangements;2
(b) introduce actuarially higher contributions for individuals; and (c)
establish procedures to improve the efficient planning and operation of
pensions through consistent treatment of contributions and benefits under the
new income tax system, and by ensuring that any pensions reform proposal is
evaluated on the basis of long-term projections (at least 50 years) under
alternative assumptions about economic and demographic factors.
73.      To improve the targeting of sick pay, we will by March 1992 (a)
implement a system with a waiting period for workers in which no compensation
is paid for the first day of absence from work, the remainder of the first
four weeks of annual illness being paid by the employer, and (b) change the
system so that benefit for a parent absent from work looking after a sick
child is paid at a flat rate equal to the minimum wage.
74.      We will also agree to adhere to a policy of not indexing family
allowarnces. To ensure that family support is both effective and targeted, we
will, elaborate a review of family policy which ensures a universal benefit
compatible with budgetary restraint, supplemented by income-tested family
support.
75.      We recognize that the system of social assistance, previously
targeted mainly at the frail elderly and incapanitated, must adapt itself to
two new client groups -- unemployed individuals and their families whose
entitlement to unemployment benefit has expired, together with other
individuals/families whose income, for whatever reason, is very low. To
ensure that social assistance fulfills its critical role as benefit of last
resort, we will by July 1991 take measures to ensure that (a) the level of
social assistance will not be allowed to fall below subsistence, and (b)
eligibility for social assistance should depend primarily on an income and
wealth test, so that the benefit can, if necessary, offer additional support
to recipients of unemployment benefit or the social insurance benefits. By
early 1992 we also plan to have completed a review of social assistance with
particular reference to: (a) the appropriateness, as a minimal poverty line,
of the contents of the 600-goods basket; (b) the appropriateness of a poverty
line based on per capita income within the family; and (c) minimizing
disincentives to individuals to seek work.
3/ The effect of this nesure would be to increase pension entitlement by only a small percentage during
-& ____  1. 1w.,--- S- l-rn.r XmIa nAMt for later Vears of service, thus giving an incentive to



ANUEK 1
Attachment I
Page 1 of 8
REPUBUC OF BULGARIA
SAL I Policy Matrix
Areas of                                Actions
Objetives                                   Intcrvontion                          Already Taken                                              Action Plan
A Stable the eSconrO      aealt            E ae re, onary.  cal                  treple mnaf ci cpatie                 Conte to blow macoeconmt  plicies awnem slte      t zit        a
mlacroeonoaic clmae ncessa  to            pta ad tomes polcy.                   m ae            polic relmi           adpsmen obPeCes.
suppoe te poces of auci                                                          suppone by both  F SSA an
-poped W   an" SML
eaop _ Uton Capacy to                     huttl  briig manowr                   Aqeemo an b       m     omwon c       M     04  DM  and AEPO opeon.
-nedf mnwuteaw                             nEarn,4                                DeM brIOrmV&n GrOu 40lG
uacroeMrnaeC arwt_ am fincn                                                      De  MAnaenet Grop Mm
nAeno  or Em
M_l  based rat of ea    pfie               and      ono zao                      fbaSZst    and ra  poicy
refom           step taken I
0 Oeveop th p&rate eor                     Moecenoc rgtoy                        Laws         md ne p MO               Encourage   deopmen  de pvate _a' (dmstc r_egtW  feoK eWM
sniworK  armon leltto                  -  W*epfte pdataon                  teetror m and prh      wan,. bhada adr* ).
an  p_ton.                           pas"          steps m   in
E ReSbftw dPe aa mi EeWe                   OWne*0p dus. m        eooment                       _a  ceenip #Vgt of gmmar. EStah  mnemet sytem   t  encrs
(SEs) an  rin monopol prig                 Ouche, satg C pming                                                        gain   eIncy an pres fo p               _AfRlzon. Iteatue SE ad aco.re  raem
po"  pectv Wny Poduct                      pdchg                                                                      prie <1t1
f. Prvd wad             saWt^t net         Cah _wsa   proede                     Soc a   net Mns tsboris i             r o r caF   h hansEl progra,.,      ummpw#yAo bcns Ia ns and _
anpote M "ec    mm awetes                  amOyMu measurs                        pl.                                  a       t  apprprae  v.    trduc procti  emplom  _auas
I/ Deal  sheqei  amn spbef
SA  condalOn gtren beloW.



AME II
Attachment I
Page 2 of 8
ACTION PLAN
Areas of                               Acfions                               Pre-Board
Ob**ln                                     Intervention                          Already Taken                             Measures                      Program
A  ac_oeconomI sttlhalin
F.=e  maoe swstem
Manta  a cnnempll  excange rate.           Exchange ae sysem.               + A8olshed admtnlsrtk                  * Coritnd        inri&x  of a        * Conmed mahmance of a mae             c
detem*ed Multiple exchange at         ma_croeconomIc a  ewodk               rainew* eomsw b tmlg  ectesd the
system ad e    sed Iter-ba*           consistefd w  thV.   jectlwes         Progran as #eWlmtned P tha e Stasi ot
mal hor tweign ex wnge        m       te Pmgra  as daemtnw on              pedomnce cntewa accetedIe to Om
monitored by Cenara _ak               the eais   pedoormani  crtt          Borrower am  VW Bank.
acceplable 1o the Brower and
no eank                              + Impemen new exhnge raee system and
nwldten          cmpeiv excwinge rat
F~ Me rdew Itoesp ooexchangeu
assiance  om  WE
2. PIce and  hacome      
MtY prtc  tolect mom   Ol    f             Pice contts and                  + 90% of goods by  t  end              (See SecIon E. 3 beow               (See Sact1on E. 3 ttlo                        4.
c   of so                                  Interttons.                      wholesa  vae Ibeazed on 1
Feb. 1991.
Pces am   c ed prodc  (So
energy Pod ) reL  s
secton on SE resincot  wg d
energ   am)
ResI icr    In real    s to                Public ecdor wages and           + Nomtn icrem  i pubic secdor                                               .  tW L b         ll an nombed wags tO
confisIwE wfh mamow  _n4c                  public enterrtos tl wag          wage Med treo uce real wg                                                  maltan  _te g, ducti    In te21 wagV .
gm s                             stgllillY du 0,5 plum Ot
-          s proam .
a 1scal P
Raduce hudog  ddl   aproprate             Publlc taxllon and                + Adto     budget redcin genel                                             * tmpeme      d   p
Ove.                                      expendiure poicy.                 gnmues deucE brm 9%9 d GOP
in 1990B   t1.9% d GOP In 1991 on                                          ConSuM  fI           beyond 199.
a cash bunt
Reduc redlsllbuv rte of                   Subsidies                         Subsides redtuced Iwm 16% Of
gover-.nenl.                                                               GOP In 1990 to 3.2% In 1991
bdget.
Pvide  more nebat fsca trl imets           Publc acatWon and                Reduced te aveage Pratt! tax rate
conduive to Invesnt grmwth and            expendtre policy,                tram 65% to 40%, m _Ma*n  10%
priae secto deelpmnt                                                        mnunc       prt tax and eD% wate
on NW5 and SS&
* Wndcates prboard (Colunn 4) or seod tae    Wol  *Bank SAL corndt    (Column 5).
* InaCales pror acton. (Column 3), and pe rmance cteia or dicive tarets potn Column 5) tar tMF ShA



ANNE II
Attachment I
Page 3 of 8
ACTION PLAN
Areas of                               Aclions                                 PreoBoard
Ob0ecdm                                     Interention                           Akeady Taken                               Measures                      Progran
Smnpliw  no Turnmoer Tax qytm                                                PPO for bRodudon od VAT by ON 1I9
t ody #WMa MN p. 10 20%)
Ilre slSdon d 1wSatIt                      bweteI plnng                      Dsl         cOW  bud"e  OneP to FtoeeIti to P tmee salsadiy ptle
1tnanced via bud      cop"                                                     -    esena publ  evis and                                                   Pioc&nmi LaW and regulaIonsRm
et  ndlo      to yid h;e eonomi                                               nvstmnt ceat pould plt
rAe of ren                                                                   capllal eXPeit
Avid  gm g tae deicL                       Dc tlnano.                         0lcie J_wy 1B1, susperded
tsarcingof budget dlict by
Coer Oan
4. MaehO
Adopt moneeY policy ONslslen WM            bnoere" rate policies.            + Basic k4twee rde abed ftom                                                 Continua to edwh IA rIeres rane to robed
maroeoonouI I tLs                                                            4.5  to 16% edtft* JMMay                                                     banaay epectaon
199. to 45% ele  FeawaM  7.
1991, and to 52% elleeb .tm 10.
bownedes raes on oW  hemming.                                               lVMptMeeitul  Of OthI agreanuft
conmumer a      _  dwaumot Ias
ralsed. WMtl be Nr to be rduied
In Ne Wla h e d   n" es In  e
basic bee   rat
mwomo    too                                                                                                   4.Mni890r010o*etfreg   assiifl
asset and liablnifhss                                                                                         altnat Uasof
*+ Casg anl neww bedst  GeW
or gu*teed
Cred Cetilg                       + Agrem et t Wait mte  In                                                    + C     sl on dometc a       nrt n r14i t
dOeMec a_et  nW  et rea  to                                                   oe emWA tI 199It.
me Goeawi.
nowe ratios                        inmm  resve reqnirements d
5%  troduced I Apr$ 19O9 and
ICreased go 7% Decmber tSO
9.Medium-Term Macroeconomic
Omprov   cutway of                         Macroeconoi aen dw                     d1tAN011 cmmi gFW*                  Mile 0ot  MG and tEaD               * Peducti eon   ad5  elam d the 8irose(
Governmen to prouce a medum-tom            data an_ts.                       (DIG. del nanage gM rp                 opretona                              extema        and thi adopton d a dew
nvscoeconwmc fr_mm     as a                                                  (DMG) and  b agenc  w                                                        satgy consIb  ent  to me     ro4nmlc
vehie by which to edmce our                                                   eonomic p_ogn g                        * A  ee to eslh    eAn Ad            tamenclic refed to above
request totat    one assIsac an                                              deveopnt AEPD) Requestd                 Cooim Go  to be vCrtld
deWr                                                                         TA via te wod sw  to imv                by  leer request   De
debt tiomaton and analic               designate c mt d      Aid
capcy.                                 Gowp to conmene a meetng
*    nes pron-twd (Cobom 4) or second rancta Wona liank SAL corMion (Column 6).
Nct e plor  aion  Com  3). ad pedtomi   ancrt  or nbdcoae target (both Coumn 5) for IMF SB&



ANE II_
Attachment I
Page 4 of 8
ACTION PLAN
Areas of                              Actbs                                 Pre.B rd
Obbdhtives                                Intemendon                           Alredy Taken                              Measues                      Program
1. Tlaf PmC PO
Cn ia ame am blads rmer                   tpot and exp   Ost        b        nas cpe rmnov  d                    oAr  an  rM o  et                   *    etu aa p            n   tayb
which prnaldes    md  lll                 em.                             prv.   comwnv NTM                      and Nia cn anc                      iw  ar fr the gother eduon d non4ar   t
atc   proenm am " etin      te                                            coaege. bMovemei; oads                 procmen tor a sudy d Os             be  aid exptt
oa to enoue gs dseiopMm d cregme w                                                        me  n m t aN               regm  wtm wthnicd
natonal competis adhUe                                                    expot tas as ptmay Inshnmllents         Istanc fRom  dank                  mpleen fin   d    Tade POi" St .
of uwuvend1on                                                             Incudn rein   fIS I p        wImt tax Omd
rsrucSeal$ uto         ectudla.
E t bmpsed on a oh   st
d goodso to domec
Expot bu of 30%   d 20Wg
bnposed on 6 agricalna id 27
nonVfmy goods Me_POdve.
+ Imped 1%  *mpolx on
seleced  FMpo                                                                                                          w
Ealab0shed  Nobes  r cl                                                                                                 I
Trasd ns   fetIth               otding CMEA atd balne
CMEA pa_                        canIt I wer beI n N tMIS  Reashe
agrem_    ah WM Sovi Union an
ndcaiv tie of goos to tads In
Ic    domest Cme            and            e,# of   s elrw   p                              Irt   In             * iindse scon                       CCtli No"  d c         thaw In   n
reue b      es     .                      (oCi                             ad at. domi ads an                    pron bter                           s r       uidepende_t be
-e-o-         )                 tn       conalota ti o1It             _      p.   IM  ilUsb,y
htding ipWud/outp  ds_btiton          d         lads. buIspost
by "    M sta appraisal.
AtOw by FVtm_erd da                                                                                  ad
ade,p wceKon  olNW                                                   tramen  for go puteon or GMtpsUL
btihlr.                                                                   Inceux    a Coleion Conosi at gm
mesm  winfg pin   i macns.
o cats pre4boa M00m  41 or second Sach Waf Sank S   oonZ  fCtui   .
* ices por acon (C;oum n   and pkedoano  cteftb or iniatv #ta   (Oth Colu  n) for IMF $9SA



AM It
Attachment I
Page 5 of 8
ACIO-N PLAN
Aeas of                               Aatkn                                 Proe4Bd
Objectives                                Interverton                          Already Taken                             Measures                     Program
o. Ptesecor repeomn
t. Dogmme
Aostaia est  of new potvte fn             Mnv and reueor                    Nbe of (Isculminao.y bler d to                                           Conuine lBvetop        of a mo der lemga
anid boeign w_rstneit.                    frunewa                         ptde secor deeopment ttld;                                                ftr rmew    for bUMs aCtvy. and rlted
e.g. empl^oment     eon                                                   tnStllnS tO impleme1t t  MneWol
of modm mrport fm  more
dirc aess to foin tad. AS a                                               Cany out andvts  of bartm to   ate se
resu, registratIon d nrw tim  eas                                         ectiC e  -n demt lop action pa  a remov
er .leated. Enactment of                                                  barers an ft dbeeop approplWe
COmermi Co SW Ob5                                                         Inentie and Institutionsl Saneaor JQr
Foreign inrestmet La.                                                     Prvt seor- developmen
2.
D opment Of at i(1de1 banir               Sndng egsaIon an                   Of ti Cera Sank LOw                                                     * Subesn to Ptliam   enactutneit d a
system.                                   supervIs1on.                    pres d to Grand Naional                                                    dft law on W  ant d ce  acy stad
AIssm In "  1091. DrM nt                                                  adopton of bIn" g    ewS    stand1rdst
Sanm"  Law prepd                                                          satl    y to atml Sankd Inlon at tI
-                                                 b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nplemerrtation tilreo by the Su**rmi
SW"SqmvMw Departmerd                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Nation alBnt.
eslab tsed I NBB.
R ucun Ot the badnn             Etbisl_dmrt dt a pmte bang               *   aStudy an Stucua               lug caring  cc a proGram eatacowy la
sysem.                          system  It separton ot cer            Ises of the awn System'.            tie SaB  for  ran truclur   and
and conmmeci banng f        s         vee b agreement on  mnn a           cos      n d t        b        " a
reWfeene mtd Intation               eo
Licensn of new prdvat baes            conso p           nou  menww                                       I    to
compan of at shrsIn'br  held by Publi
* te son at new Sait  to            e       s d    .) r b.t b. ..   d
those which pride astasnam         compan ctc  omytin otd Wa progm
loratgn excirang intles and         agedbten ieBroe mdlr   uk
new bOnn  Wtmoly are                the mre at bmiUo
111131s.
Restrucluring i befts.                                                * AWe ononapprochl to                1111    trudifngtemw.t Spep11"
cleaning up the baDlow              pIceo rvWs NW  nniel         s 1)11
Moeos (resolve tie pm    o d        dcei  up of te bhet pAM      tioBu
PRide s ppot sresto banion          g m t
0) storna developmd  alle  gTt
*ar o settem  ent sys a  1t
ansbt _ndud   tab*M UtO
* Indicates preaOerd (Okri 41 or second trah wolw 9     $AL condBom (Colum b)
+ Indiodes pior acon (Column 3). ,m  perormne  catla or diciv lwgef 0oh Cokun 5) for IMF SSk



ARMU U
Attachment I
Page 6 of 6
ACTION PLAN
Areas of                               Acto                                    ProBoard
Objectv                                     lntemention                           Already Taken                              measures                      prograr
hesase  no if ablaWcy qa                    Reomi  vi    gae                Aoulcut       Land  passed w                                                 * Co ud  gesgprassast"y toil0 go GM
pekstIoa d dSate   IAI as_t                 ftallework and  ltimuon          Paw IIw in Foeuay 199.                                                        In me cenyw  out ce no t34_r 
dudb  SWaghCure, ma sr buldin to blta ee                                     al*n SW devalopmen c a                                                      for hm  patlol c a*b. Ita l,   t
wnepse  and NW Seale                        pdvtlZai                         p         dlaeagriceatunl   vnteUV &Ay                                                " ds  trne GI am onta pIt
PAato  PaSsed In FOdmy                 * irde pilot aucdom    d             mals shefamy po           a n eststlldl*
199t pe_wtn  oowvle  to see            .nDa    cap"ty   am or.m                                         ,    naln of
by ecuon  als  i s$ae                                                        pdvMzatan ofa sgiican num rw  sl _
enterpelsa ad met w ilsm or                                                  estalmerlls
estawbi wt under mve mSUqes
(d 9Bf Orep
Etatiustunen of me Pwtsvethm)                                                *AdopOon ci a framwosik sdltiedwy to Um     I
Agency and appoMed of c                                                      Bo*anlk go    pthizaln d *ag  ta eowod
head.                                                                         n) Oe enmerard ia 
petwatzoain tme and inpmeanthg rgdto
ane  I) te adopto  o? an artom   -br-
phlato of seed lag   a
Cl eneesItl  -  Manmmant
Cq        emtp Nd   p*                      State on    p egt                                                        * AboUt ucroehkn on                  *MAopIon P d an al  progn _-ism   t
managemet.        I                         smanagement aagmeni                                                      aon i  d      ereaspee               to  a a* btpreving m  orgenoln.
aMd hU#tbon buhlng,                                                      ofto lnit ampauls.                   maonagement _nd qperaton. at dsM
enterrIse witc prAovids.fl         for
* _1_ d reh 2Qnnt c                  miso _o  ad atlribs aw d)
1S89 d bmor  _k     d                *MI   tar Wmwt_ds    and (a) go
Ecoeiny and Pimuii ard               converson fit sadd erterelse Me tokiSltick
Epco idh new goed e                   oalpahs peM  to tde  orosIwebp
ceain     a m4e tly                  Commeroli Low          on May 16. 1S1.
fp"epresultlon r     to  dSE _a Ws.
Review ci Neunss conSdfans. hIrhidh  NWg
ftseop a    gri fc ai  eqond
AccoUwg anS auditing.            New Acon aw pseW h n                                                          OCeop a prgam to mpleewnt mo
Januar which requIre                                                         accadin sMown anm bpoveO 80COUnlh
d&evaloentf ca Mode n                                                          andaUa prcielknx
acountwg sysem bOr etde,t
Ttnig of accoats stee.
* IndIChOe pi-1oard rCwn 4) or Seond ranche WlM San SAL c          lon (Column 5).
+ indcatos pwor actom (Cokum 3), and pernmie  tewa or Indcatie larget (btic  ColumnS) o IMF SBA.



'I~~                  i}1 1W              fIjWi
Ii     I    ~ ~~~~lIft III               1161t
ii~~          1          ii,  961i:           ;ri          {,



AUUE ll
Attachment I
Page 8 of e
ACTION PL.AN
Areas of                               Acdons                                Pr-Boad
Ob0 v                                      Intervenrm                           Aledy Taken                                Measures                     Progamn
f. 82Ie 30    Wrf"
t. SceW Saft Net nLwM*t
Crate a sociu safet ndt which
Psaeuso& hicmesc  bldUal                   Targetng d  sh benft on    0      rftn d mumed Bodo se8l                * Ifp   e   w    atgob * CmrVeig    d a  121PA, selt v to U.
aribd undo"    te baown umh     .             Piiable sOUPS and             LM                                      eawane: p4tn unemp d"              fan*    te  wope  taren d  Oaellv at
unloynem beneit                                                         barietfA a ftlatm. and                 W "eptni  bensft  f I      aIIO  PWY.
bIMed _Ma  SOcN                       Intrudbg a aunge  wag                fmil aOWane  an  sgocal _ama .
conbbalo  ah rom 30%tO 41%       S    earnings te as a cduion bo
and increased empoer                  the new  o         nd pensbon.         iat a tegc rvew 0          d e sowce
contubaln rate o unempoyme                                                 daelopmek br       eUcaW i o n. t   g
scee om 0.6% to .76% d                oAr  to MM    oMe                     eqUaflcO   aid VWince          e y d
Wage bU to aOCnnOdae eaeded           mppt n  bu  st*stiefce, to            eaMh Caro.
OceS in unqIoyen                      prVI  ormspondI  badgeuy
h-  and aO_ni**M
rsourcs_ and to taWa hUr
mews to mre tne
tageIng of unempobymen
uh ndI
socIsoal instoaace
2.                                                                                                                      _ana . j
Ra      on 0 lbo d_e tby                   Pce  meases lo                                                                                              CwOl  empn    MAc as an
reatmet~~~~~~~                  proomat eMPlayMe                                                                                             eroptomed pwmeda  sovum  9rm
MoAm en Mcreation                                                                                          idrvenghnd to I  serchadld  mremo
ndomel wtonsmic
MO onuhi aPlAymeh lra fot=4m
pelop po"  I   og so mappe so&
+ iNdcatea Prebor *CUbMw rAX    ) O    pe U manche  aodd or kxqAcW48 f gton PMof Crn  6   5) ,M IMF Sak



AM= III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHE



- 98 -
Annex III
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
gLLQhPLML 1ZDMA  SL
Section It        TIMetable of KaeE  AveLt
(a)   Time taken to prepara:           6 months
(b)   Prepared by:                     Government with Bank assistance
(c)   SAL Preparation Mission:         February 1991
(d)   Appraisal mission:               May 1991
(e)   Negotiations:                    July 2-3, 1991
(f)   Scheduled Board Date:            July 30, 1991
(g)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:   August 1991
Section II:     Sgecial Bank Imglementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a)   Conditions of Effectiveness and Release of First Tranche
(S150.0 million)
None
(b)   Conditions of Release of Second Tranche (SlOO.O million)
1. Macroeconomic Stabilization
Continued maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with
the objectives of the Program as determined on the basis of
performance criteria acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.11
2.   Medium-Term Macro-Term Macroeconomic Framework
Production of a database of the Borrower's external debt and the
adoption of a debt strategy consistent with the macro-economic
framework referred to in 1 above.
1l.   Specific criteria agreed with Government during negotiations. are set forth in Attachment 1 to this
annex.



- 99 -
Annex L
Page 2 of 3
3.   Competition and a Market-Based Set of Relatj iePric
Implementation of a program satisfactory to the Bank for the
further reduction of non-tariff barriers and export taxes. This
would entail restricting the use of export bans, currently 21
items, to those goods where strategic or national interest are
paramount and removing all export taxes.
4.   Private Sector Development
Adoption of a framework satisfactory to the Bank for the
privatization of large state-owned enterprise including: (i) the
enactment of a privatization law and implementing regulations; and
(ii) the adoption of an action program for privatization of
selected large state enterprises in 1992.
Continued progress in carrying out the Borrower's progrpm for the
privatization of cultivable land, verified by evidence cf transfer
of land titles to private owners. The Government has set an
ambitious target of returning 20 percent of the land to p-'vate
owners by end-1991. This target will be difficult to attain due to
the complex problems related to restitution. The Bank will monitor
the Government's efforts to create the necessary institutional
structure to implement the overall land reform program as well as
the actual transfer of land titles.
Submission to Parliament, for enactment, a draft law on banks and
credit activity and the adoption of banking supervision standards
satisfactory to the Bank and initiation of the implementation
thereof by the Bulgarian National Bank.
The carrying out of a program for the restructuring and
consolidation of banks. As a minimum such a program should
include: (i) the establishment of a temporary bank consolid&tion
company and the transfer to said company of all shares in banlei
held by public enterprises; and (ii) the initiation by said company
of a program agreed between the Borrower and the Bank for the
merger of banks.
5.   State Entertrise Restructuring and Energy Pricin;
Adoption of an action program for improving the organization,
management and operation, of state-owned enterprises. As a minimum
such an action program would provide for: (i) the establishment of
effective boards of directors for said enterprises; and (ii) the
conversion of said enterprises into joint-stock companies pursuant
to the Borrower's Commercial Law adopted on May 16, 1991.



- 100 -
Page 3 of 3
Development of an action plan outlining measures to contain the
growth of arrears in inter-enternrise credits. Such an action
program would include measures d&signed to: (i) implement a system
providing incentives for prompt payments and charging penalties for
late payment; (ii) intitiate liquidation of insolvent enterp;:ises
and a program for restructuring of those enterprises which ha'e
prospects for viable oparations; and, (Mi) strengthet. the court
system for claiming inter-enterprise payments, including provision
for settling small claims, and for processing bankruptcy cases.
Continued adjustment of the prices of basic public utilities,
particularly energy, to contain budgetary subsidies therefor at a
level consistent with the fiscal targets specified In the program.
6.   Social Safety Net and Labor Markets
Carrying out a program satisfactory to the Bank13 for the proper
targeting and delivery of unemployment benefits, pensions, sick
pay, family allowances, and social assistance.
/3    Detai13 of the proeram deemed satisfactory to the Baik are set forth in Attacbment 2 to this ajmex.



- 101 -
hNULSIII
Attachment 1
BULGARIA
MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE CRITERIA
Supervision, Monitoring and Reporting
It was agreed that short-term macroeconomic performance would be
monitored, in consultation with the IMF, based on the following macroeconomic
variables and (provisioned) 1991 targets; consolidated general government
budget deficit, on a cash basis of -1.9 percent of GDP; an increase in net
international reserves by US$500 million; net domestic assets of the banking
system of about Leva 74.7 billion (at year-end 1991). The detailed
information prepared for the IMF regarding fiscal, monetary and balance of
payments performance would be made available to the World Bank on a monthly
basis. In addition, the authorities agreed to provide information on the
variables listed in the following table, for which indicative minimum targets
have been specified for the purpose of monitoring progress under the
transformation program.
at.rgcenomig IndIcatgrs to be Monitored under, &be UL
(In kercentage)
1991        1992        1993        1994
Real Export Growth             -25.0          6.0         6.5         6.8
Private Sector Share             2.0          8.0        15.0        30.0
of GDP
Private individual and
Cooperative Farms Share
of Agricultural GDP             15.0        40.0         60.0        85.0
Ratio of Government
Subsidies to GDP                 3.2         2.0          2.0         2.0
M: \BUL\WIILOT\attacbl.min



ANNEX III
- 102 -                            Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
BULGARIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL)
DETAILS OF PROPOSED PROGRAM FOR SECOND
TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS FOR THE SOCIAL SECTORS
1.    Implementation of further targeting measures by:
a.    Introducing a sick pay system with a waiting period for workers
and the remainder of the first four weeks of annual illness paid
by the employer.
b.    Implementing appropriate amendments such that benefit for ii parent
absent from work looking after a sick child is paid at a fiat rate
equal to the minimum wage.
C.    Introducing into Parliament a law which:  (i) introduces earnings
test to determine eligibility for retirement pension; (ii) phases
in an equal retirement age for men and women; (iii) increases
ovor time the minimum standard retirement age (Category 3) to not
less than 60; (iv) ensures that disability pension is awarded
only on medical grounds and on the basis of the extent of
disability, but not on its cause.
d.    Elaborating a review of family policy which ensures a universal
benefit compatible with budgetary restraint, supplemented by
income-tested family support.
e.    Establishing a system of social assistance in which eligibility
depends primarily on a test of income and wealth.
f.    Completing a review of the system of social assistance with
particular reference to: (i) the appropriateness, as a minimal
poverty line, of the contents of the 600-goods basket; (ii) the
appropriateness of a poverty line based on per capita income
within the family; and (iii) minimizing unemployment and poverty
traps.
2.    Introduction of measures to improve incentives to minimize early
retirement by.
a.    Introducing annual pension accrual factors which are more closely
actuarial than current arrangements.
b.    Introducing actuarially higher contributions for individuals in
Categories 1 and 2.



- 103 -
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
3.    Establishment of procedures to improve the efficient long-term planning
and operation of cash benefits by:
a.    Ensuring that any pensions reform proposal is evaluated on the
basis of long-term projections (at least 50 years) under
alternative assumptions about economic, demographic and social
factors.
b.    Ensuring consistent treatment of contributions and benefits under
the new income tax system.
4.    Initiating a strategic review of human resource development by:
a.    Preparing a national training and requalification strategy.
b.   Undertaking a comprehensive review of the finance and delivery of
(i) health care; and (ii) of the education system, with a view to
diversifying sources of financing and improving the efficiency of
operation.



ANE IV
STATUS OF BAN GROUP OPERATIONS IN
THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA



- 104 -
Amex 4
STATUS OF SANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BULGARIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 1/
(as of June 30, 1991)
Amount in USS miltions
Loan       Fiscal                                                                         (Less cancetlations)
No.          Year           Borrower                        Purpose                        Bank      Undisbursed
......     .......        --------.. ..._  ........                                        ....   .  . .................  ..........
/2     1991   Republic of Bulgaria           Technical Assistance                      17.00        17.00
Total /2                                                               17.00        17.00
Total undisbursed                                                                   17.00
=l................................... .... . ......................................... ..................................
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of June 30, 1991)
As of June 30, 1991, there were not yet any IFC investments in Bulgaria
.... .... ... .... .... ... .... .... ... .... .... . ,. ............... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
/1 The status of projects tisted in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the
Executive Directors on April 30th and October 31st.
/2 Approved by the Executive Directors on June 29, 1991 but not yet signed.
File: m:\bul\wilton\pres\anx4
July 3, 1991



IBRD 2262
\  23                        74                      25.                      24r                      2.
Darnube Rivet 
//  Kofciv rosa;OvaR O  M  A  N  I A                                   hoe                 V_7 1
44 J Vidin tt , - } rO Canstanta
g                    j ~~~~~~~~Sevem ak     f onta a.
Y U  G                                   6 S L A VRlosSecdt I  C                                                                                      A rnA<
URK)  0               >            lnternaiona Bonare           R   ivers )J                        y%
TOCTOBR  1 990
ivivx Mwl-dne   11   3                  v                                                                                            , N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Si
VbS av~~~~~nik                                                <nBILAndoCK   
.~~~~~A .SEA,i5i;M1
YusoL^VI ) eu L A RI A Stean
5 t _ <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Elevtosi ees  ihwy NoinlCpt SAO
T~~~~~~~COE U R990 



