Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14746
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3397-BUL)
JUNE 21, 1995
Country Operations Division/
Resident Mission - Bulgaria
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Bulgarian Lev (plural Leva)
Average Value of US$1.00 in Leva
1989                      0.84
1990                      2.19
1991                     17.79
1992                     23.34
1993                     28.00
1994                     53.73
January       1995                     66.70
February      1995                     66.43
March         1995                     66.01
April        1995                      65.75
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCC          -      Banking Consolidation Company
BCP          -      Bulgarian Communist Party
BFTB         -      Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank
BNB          -      Bulgarian National Bank
BSP          -      Bulgarian Socialist Party
CCFF         -      Compensatory Contingency Fund Facility (IMF)
CMEA         -      Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DDSR         -      Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DIG          -      Debt Information Group
EU           -      European Union
FESAL        -      Financial Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
G-24         -      Group of 24 Countries
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
JEXIM        -      The Export-Import Bank of Japan
MRF          -      Movements of Rights and Freedom
PA           -      Privatization Agency
SAL          -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA          -      Stand-By Agreement (IMF)
SOE          -      State-Owned Enterprise
STF          -      Systemic Transformation Facility (IMF)
TAL          -      Technical Assistance Loan
UDF          -      Union of Democratic Forces
VAT          -      Value-Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
[Loan no. 3397-BUL]
CONTENTS
Preface .......................................,
Evaluation Summary . ...
PART 1. Project Implementation Assessment .
A Introduction .I
B. Initial Bank Involvemilent and Activities.                                           2
C. Project Objectives.                                                                  2
D. Achievemiient of Project Objectives.                                                 4
E. Implementation Record.                                                               8
F. Project Sustainability.                                                              9
G. Bank Performance .10
H. Borrower's Perforimiance .10
l.   Assessment of Outcome    ................1...........           ..........         I 1
J. Future Operation ........  II
K. Key Lessons Learned ........  12
PART 11. Statistical Tables .... ....  14
Table 1:   Sumimiliary of Assessments  ....................  15
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits   ....................  16
Table 3:   Project Timetable  ............                                              17
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  ...       ...... 18
Table 5:   Macroeconomic Indicators to be Monitored under SAL (in percent)  ... ... 18
Table 6:   Project Financing  ...................................... 19
Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenan.s ................................. 20
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  .............................. 23
Table 9:   Bank Resources: Missions  ................................ 24
Appendixes:
A. ICR Mission's Findings
B. Borrower contribtition to the ICR
C. Second Tranche Release Mem)orandum
D. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
[Loan no. 3397-BUL]
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Structural Adjustment
Loan in Bulgaria, for which a loan in the amount of US$250 million equivalent was approved
on August 1, 1991, and made effective on September 27, 1991.
The loan closed on September 30, 1994, with the original closing date being
December 31, 1992. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by
June 1992; the second tranche was released on March 31, 1994, and the loan was fully
disbursed on October 17, 1994. Cofinancing for the project was provided by (i) a loan by
the Export-Import Bank of Japan in the amount of US$100 million (final disbursement date,
March 31, 1995), and (ii) a grant from USAID in the amount of US$10 million.
The ICR was prepared by R. Kyle Peters, Jr. (Principal Economist, ECICO) and
Lubomir Mitov (Economist, EClBU) of the Europe and Central Asia Region, and reviewed
within the Country Department 1 of that Region. The Borrower provided comments that are
included as Appendix B to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, April 3-14, 1995. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by commenting on the draft ICR.
l



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
[Loan no. 3397-BUL]
Evaluation Summary
1.   Introduction. The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was designed to support the
ambitious and comprehensive adjustment program initiated by a broad-based coalition
Government in February 1991. This adjustment program was intended to reverse the severe
economic deterioration--rising inflation, declining GDP and growing external imbalances--
that beset the country as a result of the political changes that swept Bulgaria and the rest of
Eastern and Central Europe in 1989. It was also designed to help initiate the transition from
a command economy to a market economy. The SAL was the first significant Bank
operation in Bulgaria, as Bulgaria became a member of the Bank only in September 1990.
Prior to the SAL, the Bank prepared an introductory economic report (Bulgaria: Crisis and
Transition Towards a Market Economy, A World Bank Country Study, August 1991), which
provided the analytical basis for the Government's adjustment program. The Bank had also
already approved a Technical Assistance Loan, which was to help the authorities build the
institutional capacity for a market economy and thus complement actions supported by the
SAL. The Bank's SAL was part of a comprehensive package of international financial
support for Bulgaria's reform program. This support included an IMF Stand-by
Arrangement and a Compensatory Contingency Fund Facility (CCCF), and substantial
balance of payments support from the EU/G-24, which included US$375 million in EU loan
assistance and a US$100 million loan from the Export-Import Bank of Japan as co-financing
of the SAL.                                                   i
2.    Project Objectives. The primary objective of the SAL was to support the
Government's economic reform program, which aimed to reduce macroeconomic imbalances
as well as lay the foundation for sustained growth and creditworthiness. This was to be
achieved by the initiation of a fundamental transformation of the economy away from central
planning towards a market economy. The economic reform program also included steps to
establish a social safety net to mitigate the costs of transition. Adjustment measures supported
by the SAL were in four areas: liberalization of prices, trade and the exchange rate;
stabilization of external and internal balances, including improving the Government's debt
management capacity; structural reforms to strengthen the banking system, transfer assets
into private hands and to restructure and rationalize state-owned enterprises (SOEs); and, a
strengthening of the social safety net. The project objectives were appropriate, given the
economy's circumstances and experience in other transitional economies.
3.   In retrospect, several areas for improving the design of the SAL can be identified.
First, while the SAL concentrated appropriately on establishing the basic legal and



- iii -
institutional basis for a market economy and the transfer of assets to the private sector, it did
not set (with the exception of land reform) specific conditions related to outcomes,
particularly related to privatization. Second, the SAL did not take a comprehensive approach
to the imposition of financial discipline on state enterprises. In line with the limited
experience up to that time, it focussed on controlling inter-enterprise arrears and subsidies.
As, in the Bulgarian context, arrears to the state banks and the budget (tax and the social
security fund) were the most important source of financing for SOE losses, controlling state
enterprise losses has proven to be very difficult. It is important to note, however, that the
imposition of financial discipline on SOEs has proven difficult in most transition economies.
Third, the public finance reform agenda--tax reform, expenditure restructuring, and local
government reform--was not appropriately addressed, complicating the Government's efforts
to stabilize the macroeconomic situation. Finally, the social safety net and energy price
conditionalities were inappropriately specified to achieve the desired results. For the social
safety net, the SAL attempted to deal with too many issues, thus not focusing the
Government's efforts on the key issues, such as pension reforn. The energy pricing
condition was focussed too exclusively on controlling budget subsidies and macroeconomic
stabilization, and it did not focus enough on longer term issues of marginal cost pricing.
4.    Implementation Experience and Results. Despite the shortcomings noted above, the
outcome of the SAL was satisfactory. The economy was extensively liberalized. A basic
legal and institutional framework for a market economy was established. A legal and
institutional basis for transferring assets to the private sector was also established.
Moreover, significant assets transfer occurred through the restitution of urban properties and
agricultural land, although progress, to date, in the privatization of state enterprises is
disappointing. External imbalances were substantially reduced and the debt situation is now
largely resolved. At the same time, despite the favorable effect of the measures taken under
the SAL to reform the banking system and corporatize state enterprises, controlling fiscal and
quasi-fiscal deficits still remains a major challenge to policy-makers,
5.    Implementation of the project was satisfactory. The loan was prepared in 6 months
and became effective in September 1991, upon ratification by the Parliament. The first
tranche was released upon effectiveness and fully disbursed by June 1992. It was disbursed
against oil imports. The second tranche was released on March 31, 1994--with about 15
months delay and it was fully disbursed in October 1994. The USAID grant was fully
disbursed upon effectiveness. Co-financing by the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM)
was substantially delayed, due to the need for a Paris Club and an IMF agreement. The
JEXIM Co-financing Loan became effective only after the release of the second tranche of
the SAL, following the third Paris Club agreement and approval of the IMF SBA and STF.
It was fully disbursed by March 22, 1995, against imports of crude oil, electricity and coal.
6.    The performance of the borrower was adequate, especially given the political changes
and the further deterioration in the external environment (most importantly, the imposition of
UN sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia) that occurred during the
implementation of the SAL. Political uncertainty (three governments changed during its
implementation) and diminishing commitment to some key reform issues (especially
privatization) further complicated SAL's implementation. The most significant factor under



- lv -
the control of the authorities was the delay in adopting prudential regulations for the banking
system and weak banking supervision. Weakness in these areas continue to plague the
authorities efforts to stabilize and reform the economy. Procurement, also, presented
difficulties, as the authorities were unfamiliar with Bank procedures and the procurement
practices of state owned enterprises and the nascent private sector were unknown. Most of
the SAL and the JEXIM co-financing was disbursed against exports of crude oil.
7.    The performance of the Bank was also satisfactory. The SAL was appraised and
approved quickly. SAL and SAL-related issues dominated the macroeconomic and country
dialogue for most of 1992 and 1993. As a result, the SAL was almost constantly supervised
in a substantive sense. A resident mission was established in Sofia in mid-1992, which also
helped extensively with SAL implementation. The Bank, also, is devoting substantial
assistance to the Government in broadening and deepening the reforms initiated in the SAL
through the preparation of a proposed follow-up adjustment operation--the Financial and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL). Also, the Bank has put extensive resources
into helping the Government to understand and use the Bank's procurement practices.
8.    Summary of Findings. Future Operations. and Key Lessons Learned. The SAL was
approved very early in Bulgaria's political and economic transition. Much needed to be
done. Market institutions and laws did not exist. Thus, it is inevitable that some measures
supported by the SAL were inappropriate to achieve the desired objective or were too
ambitious. Most measures, however, have yielded important and tangible benefits in moving
the economy towards one increasingly guided by the private sector, while introducing a
measure of macroeconomic stability. At the same time, project sustainability could be at
risk, due to the insufficient progress on structural reforms (especially privatization, public
finances and social safety net). Further substantial intensification and broadening of
structural reforms is, therefore, necessary.
9.    The experience from the first Bank comprehensive adjustment operation in Bulgaria
indicated that establishing the institutional and legal framework for a market economy is not
enough. SALs should address, in a consistent and comprehensive way, the implementation
of the required reforms. Strong and sustained political commitment over time is needed in
order to ensure effective implementation of the reforms. In this respect, more attention to
building support for the reform agenda, involving broad elements of society--opposition
political groups, trade unions, and Parliamentarians--is needed. Public finance reform,
enterprise reform and privatization, as well as social sector restructuring need to be
addressed early in the reforn process, if the country is not to fall into a trap of escalating
expenditure pressures, sharp drops in revenues and a private sector developing largely
outside the tax net. Restructuring of SOEs is a slow, politically contentious process, therefore
privatization should be a clear and overriding objective. This is the most effective way to
stop asset stripping and "informal" privatization, help prevent banking problems due to
arrears from state enterprises, and ease pressures on the budget. Finally, procurement, even
under adjustment operations, is difficult for transitional economies. More flexible procedures
need to be established, especially regarding the procurement practices of private firms, if
SAL objectives of quick balance-of-payments support are to be achieved.



-- v -
10.   The Bank's country assistance strategy is geared to support key aspects of the reform
and development agenda. The centerpiece of the Bank's strategy is to support further
structural reform in the areas of privatization, the impositionl of financial discipline on SOEs
and banking system reform under a second adjUstmllent loan. Based upon the lessons learned
from the SAL, the development of measures under this loan are focussed on outcomes to the
extent possible. A second key area is to restructure and rationalize the Government's
programs and policies in the social sphere with the objective of achievinig an affordable
system of social protection targeted towards those truly in need, especially the pension
system and rationalizing social spending in hiealtlh and education. Finally, the Bank program
is directed towards supporting the developmenit of inifrastructure to foster the healthy
development of the private sector. Projects are already in place for energy and
telecommiiuniications, and a lendinig operation for the railway company is almost completed.
In addition, a modest economic and sector work program is contemiiplated. Work on issues
related to private sector developmenit is unldierway to exam-inle the constraints acting upon
private entrepreneurs and a poverty assessmlent is also uLncderway to help identify the poor and
improve the targeting of social beniefits. This country strategy is consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy discLussed at the Board on March 9, 1993.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTNIENT LOAN
[Loan No. 3397-BUL]
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    Bulgaria began its transition to a market economiiy under extremely unfavorable
conditions. The political changes in late 1989 that swept through Eastern and Central
Europe, including Bulgaria, caused significant dislocation. Economic performance
deteriorated sharply in 1990, reflecting a combiniationi of external shocks, political uncertainty
and the delay in the implementation of the required econoiic reformi measures. As the
socialist government failed to address adequtiately the deteriorating economic situation. the
economy drifted, governed neitlher by the central plan nor by miarkets rules. In 1990, GDP
declined by 9.1 percent; inflation surgecd to 65 percent by year-end; and the budget deficit
burgeoned to 13.7 percent of GDP. A cleclining supply of goods at official prices led to
endemic shortages and a surge in black market prices. Rationing of basic food items was
introduced, gasoline supply was periodlically suspenided, and electricity blackouts were
widespread.
2.    Bulgaria's external position also dleteriorated sharply, clIe to a decline in convertible
currency exports, the collapse of CMEA tracde and payment arrangements, andl a bunching of
debt payments. The current accounlt def-icit in convertible currenicy was financed by a
drawdown on foreign exchange reserves, which dlroppecd from US$1.1 billion at end-1989 to
less than US$0.1 billion by end-1990, or less thani one week of imports. Declining reserves
and large repayment obligations forced the Governmllenit to declare a debt moratorium in early
1990 on all obligations of the Bulgariani Foreigln Trade Bank (BFTB), which held virtually all
of Bulgaria's external debt. The resulting cessationi of Bu':aria's access to external financing
led to a further contraction of foreign trade.
3.    Despite the need for decisive action to hialt the deterioration of the economy, little
progress was made in 1990. This reflected the Governmaienit's indecisioni concerning the
speed and sequencinig of reformls and( its inability to secure a national consensus in support of
reform. As a consequenice, the Governimiienit resigned. A broad-based coalition government
was formed to hold new nationial elections and to put In place a reform program. It launched
a bold and comprehensive economic reform programii in February 1991. The primary
objective of the program was to reduce existing mlacroeconiomic imlbalanices, liberalize prices,
external trade and the exchange rate regimle, and establish the basic legal and institutional
framework for a market economy.



B. Initial Bank Involvement and Activities
4.    Bulgaria became a member of the Bank in September 1990. The Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL) was the second Bank operation in Bulgaria, after a Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL), approved earlier in 1991. The SAL was a direct outgrowth of the
policy recommendations of the Country Economic Memorandum, entitled "Bulgaria - Crisis
and Transition Towards Market Economy," prepared in 1990-1991 and the comprehensive
reform program launched by the country.
5.    The Bank's SAL was part of a package of international support for the Government's
ambitious reform program which included an IMF Stand-by Agreement (SBA for SDR 279
million) and Compensatory Contingency Fund Facility (CCFF, for SDR 60 million).
Substantial support was also provided by the G-24 including US$375 million in EU balance-
of-payments support, and Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) cofinancing of the SAL.
Given Bulgaria's precarious financial situation and its isolation from international financial
markets, this international support was critical to the implemenitation of the reform program.
6.    The SAL was the centerpiece of the Bank's initial operations in Bulgaria. The loan
supported policy reform across many sectors. Its design reflected the broad nature of the
Government's reform program and the need to develop the legal and incentive framework for
a market economy. As implementation capacity was weak, the TAL was designed to
complement the SAL program through building the authorities' institutional capacity. The
SAL was also intended to lay the basis for future adjustmiienit and investmnent lending. Future
adjustment lending was anticipated to support debt reduction and furtlher structural reform in
the state enterprise and financial sectors. In addition, a pipeline of sector-specific operations
was to be developed in priority sectors--industry, energy, telecommin unnications, agriculture
and the social sectors. The size and balance between quick disbursing and investment
projects were to be set depending on progress of the reform program, tlle need for balance of
payments support, and external debt developments.
C. Project Objectives
7.    The SAL had two basic objectives: (i) establish a stable macroeconomic framework;
and (ii) establish the legal and institutional framework for a market economy through: (a)
enhancement of competition and market prices; (b) private sector development, through
reform of the regulatory and incentive framework, creation of a modern banking system and
privatization of state-owned assets; (c) restructurinig of the public sector through reform of
the management system and corporate governance of state enterprises, as well as institutional
and pricing reform in basic utilities, and (d) establishing a social safety net to provide income
protection to those adversely affected by the transition.
8.    The loan amounted to US$250 million and was to be disbursed in two tranches--
US$150 million and US$100 million respectively. It was cofinanced by a US$100 million
JEXIM loan in two tranches, and a US$10 millioni USAID grant. The first tranche of the
SAL was available on effectiveness. The second tranclie was to be released upon compliance
with 11 conditions (see Appendix).



- 3 -
9.    The SAL was front-loaded (US$150 million in the first tranche and US$100 million in
the second tranche) to: (i) match the up-front and comprehensive nature of the reforms
launched by the Government in early 1991; and (ii) provide quick-disbursing, balance-of-
payments support during the difficult circumstances of 1991. Regarding the former, up-front
actions included a comprehensive stabilization program, substantial progress on price,
exchange rate, and trade reforms, de-monopolization of state industry, and adoption of basic
legislation (Land Restitution Law, Competition Law, legislation on auctioning small
enterprises, Accounting Law).
10.   The SAL's priorities--establishment of an appropriate institutional and legal
environment for private sector development--were correctly chosen and intended to provide
additional momentum to the reform program. Most objectives were realistic and
implementable provided the authorities' commitment and willingness to proceed with reform
persisted. However, in the event, emphasis should also have been placed on implementation
of key actions, such as privatization and banking supervision.
11.   In retrospect, there were deficiencies and limitations in the SAL's objectives and
related conditionality as a result of the Bank's lack of experience in transitional economies,
the complexity of the reform agenda, and the political environment. The most important
limitations were:
-     the SAL did not address the implementation of a number of important reforms,
as structural reforms were an anticipated outcome of establishing laws and
institutions. Moreover, implementation was also intended to be done through
follow-up operations. However, the structural reform effort faltered, due
largely to political and social considerations. Moreover, follow-up operations
have been delayed or downsized. As a result, institutions and laws were put
in place without effectively resulting in structural change. Privatization--one
of the most critical reforms--is an important example.
3     a more comprehensive approach was needed in respect to financial discipline
of state enterprises. The SAL addressed this issue by focusing on controlling
inter-enterprise arrears and eliminating subsidies under the macroeconomic
program. This reflected the experience in other transition economies at the
time of SAL preparation. An intended effect of the banking reform measures
was to control bank credit. In the event, subsidies and inter-enterprise arrears
were controlled, but arrears to state banks emerged as a major problem.
*     the reform of public financial management (tax legislation, public
expenditures, local government reform) was not included in the SAL, as
expenditure work and technical assistance for tax reform were being provided
by the IMF. The Bank's involvement was limited to a report on public
finance reforms and the provision of technical assistance in the area of
programming of public investment. However, expenditure restructuring and
rationalization, which are critical to fiscal reform were not adequately
addressed.



*     the social component of the SAL failed to address adequately the fundamental
problems of the social security system. The proposed actions under the SAL
were too broad and attempted to deal with too many issues at once, without a
clear vision or comprehensive strategy.
*     the SAL condition with respect to utility pricing was too narrowly focussed on
the budget and insufficiently focussed on resource allocation. It was formally
met (direct budgetary subsidies are low), but the desired adjustment did not
take place, as prices remain below operating costs, and the sector is being
decapitalized. Reference to a specific figure or benchmark would have been
more effective, but, at the time of the SAL, the necessary analytical work had
not been undertaken.
12.   Many of the SAL's deficiencies resulted from the fact that it was a complex and
demanding operation--both for the Bank and the Borrower. Its complexity stemmed from the
multiplicity of problems confronting Bulgaria in 1990 and 1991 and the tremendous needs for
urgent and comprehensive actions economy-wide. The adjustment program required
energetic and coordinated measures by the Parliament, the Government and the Central Bank
during a relatively short period of time, something that was not easily achieved in the
unsettled political situation prevailing in the country (see Table 1).
D. Achievement of Project Objectives
13.   The basic objective of the SAL--a legislative and economic environment conducive to
private sector development and sustainable economic growth--was achieved. However,
progress was much slower than anticipated and the sustainability of some reforimis is at risk,
due to political uncertainty and a lack of continuity and consistency in the implementation of
reform measures.
14.   Macroeconomic Framework. Bulgaria's macroeconomic performance has been
uneven. While the country largely achieved the indicators to be monitored by the SAL
(Appendix Table 5), macroeconomic stabilization has provcn difficult to sustain. A
combination of factors have contributed to this. Inadequate progress on implementing
structural reforms has been a key factor in the inability to sustain macroeconomllic
stabilization. The economy has experienced successive external shocks--the latest is the
sanctions imposed on trade with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Political uncertainty
and the lack of a Parliamentary majority also adversely affected the implementation of
macroeconomic policy.
15.   At the onset of the adjustment program, a firm macroeconomic program was
implemented for the first 18 months, but it unravelled in late-1992 due largely to political
uncertainty. Throughout 1993, the Government of Prime Minister Luben Berov was unable
to adhere to a consistent macroeconomic program, resulting in a substantial increase in the
fiscal deficit.



Table 1. Political Developments in Bulgaria, 1989-1995
Timne Period    Prime Minister   Party                           Parliamentary Support
1987 -          Georgi           Bulgarian Communist Party       One-party parliament dominated by
December 1989  Atanassov         (BCP)                           the BCP.
December        Andrei Loukanov  Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP,    Parliament unchanged, but with
1989-                            forner BCP)                     limited authority.
June 1990
June 1990-      Andrei Loukanov  BSP                             BSP won absolute majority in multi-
December 1990                                                    party Parliament elections in June
1990.
December        Dimniter Popov   Coalition; government with      Broad-based support by all
1990-                            participants of the BSP, the    Parliamenitary parties.
November                         Union of Democratic Forces
1991                             (UDF) anid the Agrarian Union
November        Philip Dimitrov    UDF                           The UDF won a plurality in the
1991-December                                                    October 1991 elections, with the
1992                                                             informal support of the Movements
of Rights and Freedoms (MRF).
December        Luben Berov      Non-party Government of         Informal support from the BSP, the
1992-October                     "Experts". Noni-committed       MRF and a spin-off group from the
1994                                                             UDF. Resigned Sept. 1994.
October 1994-   Reneta Indjova    Caretaker Government           Appointed by the Presidenit.
January 1995
BSP won an absolute majority in the
January 1995-   Jan Videnov      BSP                             December 1994 elections.
16.    In late-1993 and early 1994, the Government took steps to re-instate a reform
program. A tentative agreement was reached in late 1993 with Bulgaria's commercial
creditors on a DDSR operation. A firm stabilization program was then put in place in 1994.
It envisaged a halving of inflation to about 30 percent, reduction in the budget deficit to 6.5
percent of GDP, and substantial improvement of the non-interest current account balance, to
enable accumulation of foreign exchange reserves to meet the up-front costs of the DDSR
operation. This program was supported by the IMF with a third SBA, a Systemic
Transformation Facility (STF), and a DDSR augmentation loan, totalling US$490 million.
Additional foreign official assistance of US$330 million was committed by the G-24. The
macroeconomic program  was judged satisfactory for second tranche release, as the other
conditions for tranche release had already been met.
17.    In the event, macroeconomic stabilization was not fully achieved. The budget deficit



- 6 -
target was achieved, reflecting higher revenues (due to the VAT and higher inflation), with
expenditures contained in line with the program. Exports surged by about 12 percent,
yielding a modest trade surplus. International reserves increased to about US$1.3 billion,
enabling the Government to meet the up-front costs of the DDSR operation. However, a 40
percent real depreciation of the Lev in March-April 1994, coinciding with the introduction of
VAT, caused a new wave of inflation. Confidence in the Lev eroded, and inflationary
expectations rose. Inflation was further fueled by monetary expansion, as the BNB was
forced to support some troubled state banks. Inflation, thus, reached 122 percent by year-
end.
18.   Excellent progress was made in debt management. A Debt Information Group (DIG)
was created and made operational with assistance from the World Bank, financed by a
Japanese Grant. Relations with official creditors were normalized through three bilateral
Paris Club agreements. Most bilateral agreements have now been concluded and ratified. In
1994, the Government implemented a comprehensive DDSR operation with Bulgaria's
commercial bank creditors. Almost all commercial debt contracted by the BFTB was
covered by the DDSR Agreement, which provided for a debt reduction equivalent of 46
percent. This removed a major constraint on the long-run growth prospects of the economy.
19.   Structural Reform. This objective of the SAL had a number of components.
Enhancement of Competition and Introduction of Market-Based Prices. This objective was
largely achieved. Price, trade and exchange rate liberalization were significant achievements
of the reform program. Administered prices currently pertain to only a limited, albeit
important, set of goods, such as energy and transportation. Trade liberalization was also
successful. Almost all export bans were abolished, and virtually all export quotas were
replaced with export taxes. Only three items remain subject to import quotas. In 1992, a
new simplified import tariff schedule was adopted with a minimum of 5 percent and a ceiling
of 40 percent. The new schedule has few exemptions and a lower dispersion, reducing the
nominal and real rates of protection and enhancing revenue collection.
20.   Private Sector Development. SAL conditionialities in this area were met, but the
intended outcome--wide-scale privatization of state-owned assets--is yet to be achieved. A
comprehensive Privatization Law was passed in April 1992, with all implementing
regulations in place by the autumn of the same year; a Privatization Agency (PA) was
established and made operational, and annual action programs were approved for 1992, 1993
and 1994. The current regulatory framework is adequate, allowing privatization to be
initiated by different entities (PA, ministries, enterprises, employees) and implemented by
different methods. Actual results, however, have been disappointing. By March 1995, about
265 privatization transactions were completed, of which only 29 were of substantial size.
This is far less than many other transition countries. The primary cause for this
disappointing outcome has been a lack of political will. Complicated procedures and lack of
incentives for ministries and municipalities to privatize have also slowed down privatization.
On the demand side, foreign interest was lower than expected, and the lack of domestic
capital restricted domestic participation.
21.   Progress on restitution of agricultural land has been encouraging. While few land
titles have been issued, over 60 percent of land was restituted through final land decisions



- 7 -
(recognized as ownership documents and accepted as collateral) by end 1994. Three quarters
of the land is privately cultivated and about four-fifths of agricultural GDP in 1994 is
generated by the private sector.
22.   Public Sector Restructuring. Again, SAL conditionalities were met, but anticipated
results were not fully realized because of the lack of progress on privatization and weak
financial controls on state enterprises. While the transformation of SOEs into commercial
companies is virtually completed, new guidelines for selection of managers have been issued,
and most of them are appointed under new management contracts, there are few signs of
improvement. The financial performance of the SOEs remains poor, although it improved
somewhat in 1994, and this constitutes a major threat to macroeconomic stabilization. There
is evidence of asset stripping and profit privatization through transfer pricing, order re-
allocation, etc. Despite several attempts by various Governments, no effective system for
SOE's governance has been established, and the role of the state as the owner is not
adequately represented.
23.   A attempts to impose financial discipline on the SOE's have been largely
unsuccessful. An action program, adopted in 1992 envisaging financial sanctions against
SOE's in arrears, liquidation of chronic loss-makers and establishing adequate bankruptcy
procedures, was never fully implemiiented. Only the liquidation of the uranium mines and
some other small enterprises was initiated, but this still has not been completed. The
Bankruptcy Law was passed after a considerable delay (mid-1994). Financial discipline in
the public sector has remained weak, as the SOEs shifted from inter-enterprise arrears to
bank financing (voluntary--through new credit injections, and involuntary--through interest
arrears), budget arrears and arrears to workers.
24.   Energy prices were adjusted, in line with the virtual elimination of budgetary
subsidies. Direct budgetary subsidies were cut from 15 percent in 1990 to less than 2
percent in 1994; they have been eliminated for electricity and contained for heat and coal.
But, electricity prices remain too low. Conditions with respect to pricing in the Bank's
Energy Loan are not being met. Electricity prices were substantially increased in February
1991 and adjusted periodically in 1991-1993, and petroleuLm prices were partially liberalized
in June 1991. Subsequent price adjustments, however, were delayed, and have not
compensated for inflation. As a consequence, there is evidence of substantial non-budget
financing of the energy sector, estimated at 5-6 percent of GDP in 1992-1994. Energy prices
in Bulgaria are now among the lowest in the world, and substantially below long-run
marginal costs.
25.   Financial Sector Reform. This objective was largely met, albeit with a substantial
delay thereby postponing release of the second tranche of the SAL. The Law on Banks and
Credit was passed in April 1992. It provides the basic legal framework for the operation of
the commercial banks within a two-tier banking system. The BNB has issued six prudential
regulations: on licensing, large and internal credits, capital adequacy, loan classification and
provisioning, internal controls, and liquidity. The prudential regulations were fully approved
only in August 1993. They still suffer from deficiencies, however, such as excessive
complexity and unduly high standards, which make them difficult to enforce. The BNB is in
the process of revising the regulations with the help of Bank staff, although this is also



- 8 -
proceeding slowly. It has also Made efforts to enhance its supervisory capability, and
initiated pilot on-site inspections. A program for regular full-scale bank examinations is
under preparation.
26.   The consolidation of the state banks is largely completed. A Banking Consolidation
Company (BCC) was formed in early 1992, which assumned majority share ownership in the
state banks and undertook the necessary consolidation process. Sixty six state banks have
been merged into 11 banks. Another three small banks will be liquidated or sold. As a next
step, the BCC is intending to initiate bank privatization. An action program was submitted
to the Parliament in the second half of 1994, but could not be reviewed because of its
dissolution. The BCC has started implementation of this program with the sale of its
minority shares in private banks.
27.   Banking supervision, however, remzains weak, and the requiremenits of tthe prudential
regulations are not fully enforced, whichi resulted in a substantial deterioration of the
financial situation of the bankinig sector. Especially serious is the situation with a couple of
large state banks, where urgent imeasLures are being fornlUlated and implemiienited to prevent a
major banking crisis.
28.   Social Safety Net. AlthoLughi the objectives as specilied in the Loan Agreement with
respect to the social safety net were not spelled out in detail, they were considered to be
broadly met. Under the SAL, some imiportanit reforms were implemiielnted: social security
contribution rates were raised in 1991; the Pension Law was amenided, reducing the scope
for early retiremnent; new regulations on1 social assistance were issued, introduicincg means
testing and imiproved targeting; and employmllenit and social insUrance strategy papers were
largely completed.
29.   However, these actions dicd not resolve the long-ranrging and comlplex issues of
Bulgaria's social safety net. No comprehenisive restructLuring of the system has been
initiated. Costs of the social protection system are surginig (over 14 percent of GD'P in
1994). The real level of the benefits has decliled below an acceptable minlilmlILIum level, and
health and social indicators are worsening. An imlportant 0ollow-Up operation in this area is
currently being developed.
E. Inmplementation Record
30.   Implementationi of the loan was satisfactory, albeit with some delays. It was prepared
in six months and became effective in September 1991, upon ratification by the Parliament--
about a month delay due to Parliamenltary procedures. The first tranche was released upon
effectiveness and fully disbursed by June 1992. It was disbLursed against oil imports. The
second tranche was released oni March 31, 1994--with about 15 molnths delay and it was fully
disbursed in October 1994. The USAID grant was fully disbursed upon effectiveness.
Cofinancing by the Export-Import Bank of Japan was substanitially delayed, due to the need
for a Paris Club and an IMF agreemenit. The JEXIM  Cofinancing Loan became effective
only after the release of the second tranche of the SAL, following the third Paris Club
agreement and approval of the IMF SBA and STF. It was fully disbursed by March 22,
1995, against imports of crude oil, electricity and coal.



-9-
31.   Many factors contributed to the delay in SAL implementation. The most important
factor was the political situation. The SAL was formulated and initially implemented by two
governments that were strongly committed to the reform program. However, the political
consensus behind the reforms slowly eroded during 1992. The Government of "Experts,"
which took over in October 1992, enjoyed only a weak mandate from Parliament and
therefore, was not able to implement economic reforms decisively, especially in 1993. As a
result, compliance with some second tranche conditions was delayed substantially.
32.   External factors also contributed to the delay in implementation. The tightening of the
UN sanctions against Yugoslavia and the delay in the implementation of the EU association
agreement substantially worsened Bulgaria's external environment. Foreign official
assistance fell short of expectations and was slow disbursing, which was largely the result of
the slowdown in the implementation of the Government's reform program. Foreign direct
investment remained small, reflecting the still remaining uncertainties about the direction of
economic reform, particularly privatization, the unstable situation in the region, and the
uncertainty associated with Bulgaria's external debt situation.
33.   The most significant delay under the control of the authorities was the delay in the
adoption of the prudential regulations for the banking system. This was primarily due to the
unfamiliarity of Central Bank officials with commercial banking practices in market
economies. But, also, there was considerable resistance by the domestic banking community.
This was particularly true for the large state-owned commercial banks that had long-standing
relationships with state-owned enterprises. The regulations were eventually enacted in
August 1993. But by that time, there was no adequate macroeconomic framework in place
due to the political uncertainty discussed above. In March 1994 a new stabilization program
was adopted and was supported by an IMF SBA and STF. This program enabled the release
of the second tranche in March 1994, i.e., about 15 months behind schedule.
F. Project Sustainability
34.   The reforms supported by the SAL have resulted in an important reorientation of the
Bulgarian economy from one guided by central planning and state control to one guided by
the market. Many of the basic steps to liberalize the economy--price, trade and exchange
rate reform--as well as the initiation of laws/regulations supporting a market economy are
probably irreversible. However, macroeconomic stabilization remains an area of concern.
Further structural change--particularly in the areas of the financial sector, state enterprises
and fiscal reform--is essential to achieve and maintain macroeconomic stability and
sustainable growth.
35.   Sustainability will also depend critically on private sector development, which has
grown much more rapidly than expected. It was the only contributor to economic growth in
1992 and 1993, and to a large extent, it has offset the decline in state employment. The
recorded private sector share in GDP exceeded 30 percent in 1994, and if informal activities
are added, the private sector most probably accounted for a larger proportion of the
economy. It dominates agriculture, trade and most services. The slow pace of formal
privatization of state assets, however, has severely constrained private sector development in
industry.



- 10 -
G. Bank Performnance
36.   Bank performance was good. The Loan was processed and approved quickly, as a
strong foundation of knowledge existed due to the extensive preparatory work undertaken for
the Bank's first economic report. Supervision was constant, as from 1992 through early
1994, the country and macroeconomic dialogue focused almost exclusively on the SAL and
SAL-related issues, with formal supervision reports prepared annually after 1992. The Bank
demonstrated a flexible approach with respect to SAL conditionality, taking a firm stance on
really important issues (prudential regulations and banking reform, macroeconomic
framework) and showing more flexibility on issues which obviously needed more time and
political consensus (the social safety net).
37.   The creation of the Resident Mission in Sofia in the summer of 1992 made it possible
to shift much of the project dialogue and thus, supervision activities, to the field. The
appointment of the initial SAL task manager as Resident Representative also has had a
beneficial effect on project implementation and supervision, and contributed to maintaining
close contacts and cooperation with the authorities.
38.   Most of the problems, connected with the Bank's performance, were related to
supporting operations. The delay in many follow-up operations substantially reduced the
Banks' ability and leverage to bring about complementary sectoral restructuring. The
disappointing performance of the TAL hindered the build-up of institutional capacity by the
Borrower; while the extensive technical assistance, provided by other agencies, was not
always adequately directed towards SAL-related activities. This adversely affected SAL
implementation. Where the TAL and Bank-administered technical assistance was utilized
(debt monitoring and reporting, trade policy, banking reform), progress was better. Also,
while the thrust of the SAL was to promote private sector development, there was only a
limited ability to support directly private sector development, as there were few instruments
to support privatization.
H. Borrower's Performance
39.   The Borrower's performance was, as a whole, satisfactory, especially since this was
the first significant Bank operation in Bulgaria. Cooperation was excellent during
preparation and appraisal, as well as during the early stages of implementation (1991-1992).
The project objectives and loan conditionality were designed in close cooperation with the
Government, and Borrower's ownership of the project was very strong. All conditions of
Board presentation were fulfilled quickly.
40.   Since late 1992, political uncertainties within the Government and between the
Government and Parliament led to important delays in key actions. The Government that
took office in late 1992 had little familiarity with the Bank, the project, and only a weak
commitment to some key elements of the reform program, such as privatization and social
security reform. This affected adversely both implementation of second tranche conditions
and key follow-up operations, especially in the financial and enterprise sectors and the social
sector operations.



- 11 -
41.   Procurement also presented difficulties, which to some extent was to be expected,
given the newness of Bank operations in Bulgaria. Substantial delays occurred and a lack of
experience by the implementing agency (the BNB) in complying with Bank's procurement
procedures became apparent. This also slowed the disbursement of the JEXIM Cofinancing
Loan. Procurement was implemented only with the extensive help of staff in both
headquarters and the Resident Mission. Procurement practices of state enterprises do not
conform to standardized procedures or laws and in most cases, were not acceptable to the
World Bank. This contributed to delays in project disbursements.
I. Assessment of the Outcome
42.   As a whole, the outcome of the operation was satisfactory. Macroeconomic stability
was largely sustained, although this is an area where long-term fiscal, financial and state
enterprise reform is still required. The foundations, both legal and institutional, for a market
economy were firlmly established. Implementation of many structural reforms, particularly
privatization, however, was disappointing. As a result, the expected supply response was
much weaker than anticipated, and macroeconomic stabilization has come increasingly under
pressure. Urgent measures for accelerating structural reforms, particularly privatization, are,
therefore, needed to sustain the progress achieved so far.
J. Future Operations
43.   While uncertainty exists with respect to the pace of future reforms, broad consensus
about the need to accelerate and deepen structural reforms appears to exist within the
Government and most political groups. It is well understood by these groups that to service
Bulgaria's large external debt obligations over the medium term, the country needs
sustainable economic growth. In this context, five economic policy areas emerge as top
priorities for the authorities, in which the Bank is also well placed to help:
a.    Privatization must be the focal point of future reforms. Fast and sweeping
privatization is the key to sustainable growth and economic stability. While the legal
and institutional framework for privatization--much of which was supported by the
SAL--is substantially in place, a lack of political will and national consensus has
halted implementation. In an effort to accelerate the process, the previous
Government prepared and the Parliament passed amendments to the Privatization Law
in July 1994. These amendments were designed to enable the implementation of a
mass privatization program and simplify certain procedures for market privatization,



- 12 -
as well as allow bigger preferences for employees and the lessees of state property to
help overcome their resistance to privatization.
b.    Imposing financial discipline on the SOEs, including the liquidation of the
clearly unviable loss-makers, is the second most important area. Certain steps have
been taken since the release of the second tranche of the SAL. A program to monitor
the 100 largest loss makers was established and is under implementation. A
Bankruptcy Law was also enacted. It should provide creditor enterprises and banks
with improved legal recourse. However, even with these steps, few concrete actions
have been taken against the large loss makers.
c.    Strengthiening the banking system is another area where follow-up actions are
required. The prudential regulations need amendment to make them more realistic
and enforceable. Banking supervision has been inadequate. Moreover, there are
several state banks and a few private banks that are in financial distress and require
immediate, urgent attention.
d.    Infrastructure and basic utilities (especially energy): new pricing systems,
establishment of regulatory agencies and real price increases are needed in order to
ensure proper maintenance of the capital stock and new investment in infrastructure
(including private foreign capital).
e.    Social sector restructuring: urgent actions are needed if the country is to have
an affordable, efficient and equitable systems of social protection, and adequate health
and education standards.
44.   As discussed in the Country Assistance Strategy (Board discussion, March 9, 1993),
the Bank is engaged in a dialogue with the Government on an appropriate country assistance
program. As a follow-up to the SAL, and to help sustain and deepen the reforms begun
under the SAL, the Bank is preparing a FESAL operation, focusing on the first three
priorities for policy reform. The key thrust of the Bank's infrastructure program is to build
an adequate framework to foster private sector development, in such sectors as transport,
energy and telecommunications. Finally, the Bank is also involved in an intensive dialogue
with the new Government regarding a restructuring and rationalization of expenditures in the
social sectors, including the system of social protection. The economic and sector work
program involves work on the private sector to analyze existing constraints to private sector
development, as well as a Poverty Assessment to examine how various groups have been
affected by the loss of income during the transition.
K. Key Lessons Learned
45.   The SAL was approved very early in the transition process. Much needed to be
done. Market institutions and laws did not exist. Thus, it is inevitable that some measures
proposed under the SAL were insufficient to achieve their intended objective (such as
controls on inter-enterprise arrears) or too ambitious (such as the proposed social security



- 13 -
reform). However, on balance, the SAL is judged to have had a positive and significant
effect and to have largely achieved its objectives.
46.   The experience with SAL implementation has yielded several key lessons:
a.    Establishing the institutional and legal framework for a market economy is
not enough. Implementation of the required reforms, in a consistent and
comprehensive manner, is essential. The SAL did not provide adequate leverage to
bring about such implementation, as this was intended to be done through the planned
follow-up operations in industry, energy, financial sector, and human resource
development. As the initial willingness and decisiveness of the Government to
proceed with the structural reforms weakened, complementary operations were
delayed or downsized, and implementation of some intended reforms was slowed
down considerably. Privatization is a case in point.
b.    SALs need strong and sustained political commitment over time in order
to be effective. Dealing with the political uncertainties of transitional economies is
the key challenge to the design of robust adjustment operations in transition
economies. This is particularly trLie in Bulgaria, which had four governments during
implementation. One key implication is that there is a need for attention to building
broad support for SAL-related measures. Project preparation and on-going
discussions during implementation should involve broad elements of society--
opposition political groups, trade unions, and Parliamentarians.
C.    In transitional economies, public finance reform, including social sector
expenditure restructuring, needs to be addressed early in the reform process,
even if initially there are no apparent problems. Otherwise, the country may fall
into a trap of rapidly escalating expenditure pressures and sharp drops in revenues
which induce the private sector to operate largely outside the tax net.
d.    Restructuring of SOEs--particularly, the imposition of rinancial discipline--
is a slow, politically contentious process. Privatization should be a clear and
overriding objective. This is the most effective way to stop asset stripping and
"informal" privatization, help prevent banking problems, and ease pressures on the
budget.
e.    Procurement, even under adjustment operations, is extremely difricult for
transitional economies, without Procurement Laws, a tradition of competitive
bidding and little previous history of private entrepreneurship. More flexible
procedures need to be established, especially regarding the procurement practices of
private firms, if SAL objectives of quick balance-of-payments support are to be
achieved. The Bank has sent several procurement training missions to Bulgaria,
pushed enactment of a Public Procurement Law under the TAL, and has examined the
procurement practices of the private sector to enable disbursements under future
adjustment operations based on custom receipts.



- 14 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1             Summary of Assessments
Table 2             Related Bank Loans / Credits
Table 3             Project Timetable
Table 4             Loan / Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5             Macroeconomic Indicators to be Monitored under SAL (in percent)
Table 6             Project Financing
Table 7             Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8             Bank Resources  Staff Inputs
Table 9             Bank Resources  Missions



- 15 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial     Partial     Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                      U             1  00
Sector policies                     U             IXI          0                U
Financial objectives                                           E U   
Institutional development                         EL           El aLi
Physical objectives                LI             LI           LI
Poverty reduction                   U             1I           U                U
Gender issues                                     E U          U               IRX
Other social objectives            L                                           nI  U  U
Environmental objectives             I            O            U               t9
Public sector management            U             U                            U
Private sector development          L             U            U               U
Other (specify)                     U             U            0               U
B. Project sustainability            Likely                Unlikely            Uncertain
ER                    n                    U O
C. Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                      OI                                         U                             I
Preparation assistance                                                         U 0
Appraisal                           O                                          FX U]
Supervision                         0                                          El U
D. Borrower performance        Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Dcicient
Preparation                                                U                   U 
Implementation                      O                                          U
Covenant compliance                 O                                          MXI  U
Operation (if applicable)          EL                     U                    U
E. Assessment of outcome       Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory UnsatisfactoryHighly Unsatisfactory
E                          U               U



- 16 -
Table 2 : Related Bank Loans / Credits'
Loan/Credit Title   Purpose                   Year of Approval    Status
Proceeding
Operations
Technical             Provision of            1991                   Under
Assistance Loan       technical                                      implementation
assistance
Debt & Debt           Restructuring of        1994                   Fully disbursed;
Service Reduction   commercial debt                                  closed
Loan
Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations with related objectives. A limit
of 10 years is observed when listing prWceding operations.



- 17 -
Table 3: Project Tinietable
Steps in project cycle                   Date     Date actual/
planned2      latest
estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                         03/28/91
Preparation                                                02/91  04/22/91
Appraisal                                                  05/91  05/01/91
Negotiations                                               07/91  06/27/91
Letter of development policy                                       07/05/91
Board presentation                                         07/91  08/01/91
Signing                                                            08/27/91
Effectiveness                                              08/91  09/27/91
First tranche release                                      07/91  09/27/91
Second tranche release                                     01/92  03/31 '94
Loan closing                                             12/31/92  09/30/94
2        As provided in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).



- 18 -
Table 4:  Loan / Credit Disbtirsements : Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$millions)
FY 1992    FY 1993  FY 1994  FY 1995
Appraisal estimate                          250.00            250.00    250.00                  250.0
Actual                                      141.96            148.15    214.05                  250.0
Actual as % of
estimate                                      56.8             59.3             85.6            100.0
Date of final
disbursement                                                                                 10/17/94
Table 5: Macroeconomic Indicators to be monitored under SAL (in percent)
1991                      1992                      1993               1994
program     actual     program      actual          program       actuial    program    est.
Real Export Growth"              -25.0       -46.6        6.0           3.6            6.5         -5.4         6.8     8.3
Private Sector Share in GDP       2.0         11.8        8.0           15.3           15.0        20.0       30.0      30.0
Private Individual and            15.0       36.0         40.0          50.0           60.0       60.0      X8.0        83.0
Cooperative Farrns Share in
Agricultural GDP
Ratio of Government               3.2         4.2         2.0           1.8            2.0         2.1n       2.0       1.1
Subsidies to GDP
1/  Merchandise exports (FOB), deflated by the MUV.
2/  Excludes BFTB set-offs totalling 0.8% of GDP.
Source: World Bank Staff Estimates



- 19 -
Table 6: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                 (US$M)
Source          Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign Total
Costs   Costs           Costs  Costs
IBRD/IDA                           250    250       -    250   250
Cofinancing Institutions:
(1) Japanese Eximbank              100     100      -    100   100
(2) USAID                           10      10      -      10    10
TOTAL                     360    360             360   160



- 20 -
Table 7: Status of Laal Covenants3
Section     Covenant       Present       Original        Revised                        Desctiption                                                Comments'
Type         status       fuirllment     fulrinment                           of
date          date                           Covenant
3.01(a)          13        C           4/30/92           10/30/93     The Borrower and the Bank shall exchange views on    All conditions remain satisfied. See below.
progress of the Program and actions specified in
Schedule 4 of the Agreement.
3.01 (a)         13        C                                          (1) Continue maintenance of a macro framework.       Macroeconomic stabilization program for 1994 is in place.
Govemment's macroeconomic program to be supported by an IMF
standby arrangement.
3.01(a)         13         C                                          (2) Borrower to produce database on external debt and   Debt Information Group established. London Club about 98%
adopt a debt strategy consistent with macro         reconciled with commercial banks. Same status with Paris Club
framework.                                          debt. Negotiations ongoing with London Club.
3.01(a)    12              C                                          (3) Implement a program satisfactory to the Bank for    Trade regime virtually free of quantitative restrictions. New tariff
reduction of non-tariff barriers and export taxes.  regime introduced July 1992.
3.01(a)    12              C                                          (4) Adopt framework satisfactory to the Bank for     Privatization law enacted 4/92. Most implementing regulations also
privatization of large SOEs including: (i) enactment of  issued. Privatization program for 1992 approved by COM and as of
privatization law and implementating regulations: and    6/30/93, five firms privatized. Government currently developing
(ii) adoption of an action program for privatization of   mass privatization and implementing its privatization program.
selected large SOEs in 1992.
3.01(a)    12              C                                          (5) Continue progress satisfactory to the Bank for  Restitution of land has begun in eamest. Final land decisions issued
privatization of cultivable land, verified by evidence  for 73 % of agricultural land at end-December 1993.
of transfer of land titles to private owners.
3   This table is based on Annex D5 of OD 13.05, Project Supervision.
If the covenant is complied with only partially or not at all, the reason is provided.



- 21 -
3.01(a)     12               C                                             (6) Adopt action program satisfactory to the Bank for    Following implementation of new Commercial Law, majority of
improvement of organization, management and             companies demonopolized, transformed into and registered as
operation of SOEs which provides, inter alia, for (i)   commercial. Transformation is underway for others. New board of
establishment of effective boards for said enterprises;    directors and new managers appointed.
and (ii) conversion of said enterprises into joint stock
companies pursuant to Borrower's Commercial Law
adopted on May 16, 1991.
3.01(a)     12               C                                             (7) Develop an action plan satisfactory to the Bank      Unit established in Ministry of Finance to monitor inter-enterprise
providing measures for the containment of growth of    arrears. Available evidence shows that arrears declined in real
inter-enterprise arrears.                               terms (decline estimated at 8% at end 1992).
3.01(a)     12               C                                             (8) Submit to Parliament for enactment draft law on     Law on Bank and credit activity enacted.  BNB has adopted
banks and credit activity, and adopt banking            prudential regulations in six big areas. BNB has made initial efforts
supervision standards satisfactory to the Bank and its    to initiate banking supervision; regular program of supervision
implementation by the BNB.                              currently being developed.
3.01(a)     12               C                                             (9) Carry out a program satisfactory to the Bank for    Bank consolidation company established. One consolidation bank
restructuring and consolidation of banks including: (i)  (UBB) began operation on Jan. 1, 1993. Grouping of remaining
establishment of a temporary bank consolidation         state-owned banks into ten banks has been agreed and their merger
company and the transfer to said company of all         is expected to be completed by end 1993.
shares in banks held by public enterprises, institutions
and banks; and (ii) initiation by said company of the
carrying out of a program agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank for the merger of banks.
3.01(a)     12               C                                             (10) Continue adjustment of prices of basic utilities,  Energy and transport prices have been adjusted periodically. The
particularly eiiergy, to contain budgetary subsidies,   last adjustment was May 1, 1993. Subsidies have been
therefore, at a level consistent with the fiscal targets  progressively lowered.
specified in the Program.
3.01(a)     12               C                                             (I1) Carry out a program satisfactory to the Bank for    Significant progress has been made in reforming social safety net
proper targeting and delivery of unemployment           policies. Recent agreement with Government to a process for
benefits, pensions, sick pay, family allowances and     producing white paper on social insurance deemed satisfactory for
social assistance.                                      completing this condition.



- 22 -
3.0b(b)     13             C                                          Prior to such exchange of views, Borrower to furnish    Periodic discussions between Bank staff, including regular
to the Bank for comment, report on progress achieved   discussions with Resident Mission staff, and Government has been
in the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall    used to monitor progress.
reasonably request.
3.03(b)    I               C                                          Audit Covenant.                                      Necessary audit completed.
3.03(c)    I               C                                          Use and Audit of Statement of Expenditures.          Necessary audit completed.
Covenant types                                                                          Present status:
I  =     Accounts/audits                   8      =  Indigenous people                  C     =    covenant complied with
2  =     Financial performance/revenue     9      =  Monitoring, review, and reporting   CD   =    complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries     10    =  Project implementation not         CP   =    complied with partially
3  =     Flow and utilization of project             covered by categories 1-9          NC   =    not complied with
funds                             11    =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral         NYD    = not yet due
4  =     Counterpart funding                         budgetary or other resources
5  =    Management aspects of the                    allocation
project or executing agency       12    =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6  =     Environmental covenants                     regulatory/ institutional action
7  =     Involuntary resettlement          13    =  Other



- 23 -
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff InDuts'
Planned              Revised               Actual
Stage of Project Cycle  Weeks     US$       Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$
(thousands)          (thousands)          (thousands)
Through appraisal        0                   118.0      374.4    118.3        375.4
Appraisal-Board          4.0        13.0      13.8       44.5      14.4        46.4
Board-effectiveness                                                                  l
Supervision             37.0       125.8    116.9       392.6      93.6       308.1
Completion              11.0        39.2      10.0       37.3    0 I/        0 I/
TOTAL                 52.0       178.0    258.7       848.8    226.3       729.9
1/ No data available as yet.
5  Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.



- 24 -
Table 9 : Bank Resources: Missions
Perfonnance rating'
Stage of project      Month/       Number of      Days in      Specialized    Implement-    Develop-      Types of
cycle             year         persons         field       staff skills    ation status   m ent      problems'
represented7                 objectives
Appraisal through     5/91          8              18            AIE/B/P             --
Board approval                                                   EglS/T
6/91          1             10            B                   -             --
7/91          1             10            E                   --
Supervision           9/91           4             15            T/E/F/P                                        M
11/91         5             II            T/A/P/F                                        M
2/92          8             13            T/A/E               --           --            M
DP, F/P
5/92          3             17            T/E/S               2             2            M
2/94          3             13            T/E                 2             2
Completion            4/95           1             3             T                   --
6  Performance Ratings: I =  Minor Problems; 2 =  Moderate Problems; 3 =  Major Problems
7    Specialization:
A  =  Agriculturist               E =  Economist/Macro                      S =  Social Sector Specialist
B  =  Banking Specialist          F  =  Financial Specialist                T =  Task Manager
Eg =  Energy Specialist           P =  Private Sector Specialist            DP = Disb/Procure Specialist
8    Types of Problems: F =  Financial; T  =  Technical; M =  Managerial



APPENDIX A       page 1 of 3
Tne World Bank                                        1818 H Street, N.W.  (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT    Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INT8AFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                 U.S.A.              Cable Address: INDEVAS
Fax: (202) 477-6391
May 11, 1995
His Excellency
Dimitar Kostov
Minister of Finance
Sofia, Bulgaria
Dear Mr. Minister:
Enclosed is a draft copy of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) that closed on September 30, 1994. This report reflects
the policy of the World Bank to evaluate jointly all World Bank completed projects with the
borrower. As the SAL is the first completed project between the World Bank and the
Republic of Bulgaria, this is the first ICR that has been prepared. The final version of the
ICR will be distributed to the World Bank's Executive Directors, after receiving the
comments of you and your colleagues. The Government's comments on the project and its
implementation will be attached to the final version of the ICR and also distributed to the
Executive Directors.
I would like to take this opportunity to describe briefly the recent mission's conclusions
regarding the implementation of the SAL. Overall, the mission and the draft ICR have
concluded that implementation of the SAL was satisfactory, with most of the loan's
objectives successfully achieved. The performance of the Government of Bulgaria was also
satisfactory, especially given the political changes and the further deterioration in the external
environment (most importantly, the imposition of UN sanctions against the Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia), both of which occurred during the implementation of the SAL. The only
significant area of delay under the direct control of the authorities was the delay in the
enactment of prudential regulations.
The draft ICR concentrates on areas where the desicgn of the SAL was deficient and
those needing follow-up. Several deficiencies in the design of the SAL are highlighted:
*    First, while the SAL concentrated appropriately on establishing the legal
and institutional framework for a market economy and the transfer of
assets to the private sector, it did not set specific conditions related to
outcomes (with the exception of land reform). As a result, institutions and
laws were put in place without effectively resulting in a transfer of state
assets into private hands.



APPENDIX A      page 2 of 3
- 2 -                            May 11, 1995
*    Second, the SAL did not take a comprehensive approach to the imposition
of financial discipline on state enterprises. In line with the limited
experience in transition economies to date, it focussed on controlling inter-
enterprise arrears and subsidies. However, in the Bulgarian context,
arrears to the state banks and the budget (tax and the social security fund)
were the most important source of financing for SOE losses. Therefore,
the measures supported by the SAL were not fully effective in controlling
state enterprise losses. It is important to note, however, that the
imposition of financial discipline on SOEs has proven difficult in most
transition economies.
*    Third, public financial management--tax reform, expenditure restructuring,
and local government reform--was not appropriately addressed in the
design of the SAL, complicating the Government's efforts to stabilize the
macroeconomic situation. While some technical assistance was provided
for tax reform, expenditure management and the public investment
program, there was not a comprehensive approach to financial management
in the public sector, which has complicated the conduct of fiscal policy.
*    Finally, the conditions on utility pricing, particularly electricity, were too
narrowly focussed on limiting budgetary subsidies and as a consequence,
did not focus adequately on issues of economic efficiency.
Overall, the conclusion of the evaluation is that the SAL largely accomplished -ts
objectives--particularly given the difficult circumstances under which it was formulated and
implemented. At the time of SAL approval, much needed to be done and there was little
experience with reform in transition economies. Market institutions and laws did not exist.
Thus, it was inevitable that some measures supported by the SAL were inappropriate to
achieve the desired objective or were too ambitious. Most measures, however, have yielded
important and tangible benefits in moving the economy towards one increasingly guided by
private sector activity, while introducing a measure of macroeconomic stability. However,
the draft ICR notes that the sustainability of the reform program supported by the SAL might
be at risk, due to the large, unfinished reform agenda in structural reforms (especially
privatization, enterprise discipline and the system of social protection). A substantial
intensification and broadening of structural reforms is, therefore, necessary and is the subject
of ongoing preparation work between the Government of Bulgaria and the World Bank in the
Bank's future lending program.



APPENDIX A     page 3 of 3
- 3 -                           May 11, 1995
We would appreciate the written comments of you and your colleagues on the above
conclusions and the draft ICR by mid-June 1995. Your comments will be presented to the
Bank's Executive Directors as part of the ICR. Meanwhile, the Bank's Resident Mission in
Sofia stands available to discuss the draft ICR with you. Also, the SAL Task Manager
Mr. Kyle Peters' planned visit to Sofia in early June will present a further opportunity to
discuss the draft ICR.
I appreciate your attention to this matter, as the evaluation of completed Bank projects
is an extremely important element of the  oject cycle.
Si c      u
Christiaan J.
Chief, Country Operations Divis
Europe and Central Asia Department I
Enclosure



APPENDIX B     page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
102 Rakovski St., 1040 Sofia
Telex 22727, Telefax 8O1148
June 21. 1995
Mr. Christl.aan J. Poortman
Chief, Coutr-Liy Operations Division
Europe and Central Asia Department I
The World hank
1818 H Strcf-At. N.W.
Washinqton, FD.C. 20433-
U.S. A.
Dear Mr. I1c'cPL-tman,
R:SA!.Ljmp].gqmentat ion CuRinp le   nre -rt (ICR)
FuI ther to your  letter dated Mlay  11. 199?. plea-e -Find
enc1osed  tbEI ewitLi   the  comments   of*  thI-e   Government  onr  the
Implementatiuri Completion Report (ICR).
Recgar- ds,
imitaz- i(0   V
Minister o F Finance
Enclosure



APPENDIX B     page 2 of 2
BULGARIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
[LOAN No. 3397 - bul]
In retrospect, the Government of Bulgaria (GoB) considers the implementation of the
Structural Adjustment loan (SAL) as satisfactory and important support at the early
stages of Bulgaria's transition to a market economy. Bulgaria started the process of
economic reforms in unfavourable conditions after falling into a debt crisis in early
1990 and suffering several consecutive external shocks: dissolution of former trade
relations and losses due to the UN sanctions against Iraq. SAL was an important
component of the international financial support which the country received at the
beginning of the reform process.
The importance of the SAL is due to the fact that it supported the implementation of
the main components of the restructuring poiicies of GoB. Despite of the delays in the
process of implementation of some of the envisaged measures, the basic objectives
were acliieved. The economy was put irreversibly on the path of reforms toward a
market. General legal framework was established, the privatisation process was set-
up, the restructuring of the banking sector and commerclalisation of the state owned
enterprises were initiated and have been advancing since 1991,
Pointing fairly on what was achieved, the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
devotes as well due attention to the problems faced through the implementation:
delays in enactment of some key legislation in the field of prudential regulation and
privatisation; lack of comprehensiveness of the reforms in some areas - restructuring
of state owned enterprises, setting the social safety net adequate to the needs of the
transitional period. Some problems were due to the Bulgarian specifics of the reform
process: frequent changes of the Governments; negative impact of the UN sanctions
against FR Yugoslavia; lack of access to the international financial markets. The
Government shares the conclusions expressed in ICR on the shortcomings of the SAL
reform programs. At the same time it should be noted that while some of the problems
were related to lack of comprehensiveness of the policy actions, others - were due to
insufficient consistency of the measures with the problems inherited from the planning
system.
In conclusion, GoB confirms-its commitments to the process of transformation toward
a market economy and its appreciation of the need for sustainability of the economic
reforms. At the same time  GoB  notes that the   enhancement of the
comprehensiveness of the reforms should be complemented by setting-up clear
priorities of the issues to be tackled and measures to be taken. The
comrehensiveness of the reforms should not lead to unmanageable complexity of the
programsr.






APPENDIX C     page 1 of 11
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SecM94-338
From:  The President                                               March 31, 1994
BULGARIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I (LOAN NO. 3397-BUL):*
SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
I. Overview
1.          The Bulgarian authorities began to implement their economic reform
program in February 1991. The primary objectives were to reduce the prevailing
macroeconomic imbalances and initiate the process of moving from a centrally
planned system to a market economy.  Economic conditions at the outset of the
reform program were difficult.   Massive price distortions and direct state
control over investment had misallocated the nation's resources for decades,
while a complex mix of taxes, subsidies and foreign exchange rationing left
little incentive to improve efficiency.   During the 1980s, the Government
borrowed heavily to finance the growing external deficit. As a result, foreign
debt increased from USS3.2 billion in 1985 to US$9.2 billion in 1989, equivalent
to about 235 percent of convertible currency exports of goods and non-factor
services. Confronted with declining hard currency earnings, a bunching of
amortization payments and the depletion of foreign exchange reserves, the
Government declared a moratorium on debt repayments during 1990, thereby severely
restricting the country's access to new foreign commercial bank lending,
including short-term trade credits.
2.          In addition to these unfavorable initial conditions, the economy has
experienced a number of large negative external shocks since 1990. The effect
of the dissolution of the CMEA, the collapse of trade with the USSR, and the Gulf
crisis are estimated to have resulted in a direct loss of about 17 to 20 percent
of GDP during 1989-1992.  Furthermore, the progressive tightening of economic
sanctions on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) has also adversely affected
Bulgaria both directly, through reduced exports to Yugoslavia and the independent
Republics of former Yugoslavia, and indirectly, by closing critical tranaport
routes to Western Europe. As a result, although Bulgarian enterprises would have
had to restructure to compete in world markets in any event, these developments
forced them to adjust at an even faster pace and with even more severely
constrained resources. Moreover, some enterprises already able to compete are
suffering losses because of exogenous events.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates                *Questions on this document
Office of the President                                  may be referred to:
Executive Vice Presidents - IFC and MIGA                       Mr. Kyle Peters
Vice Presidents - Bank, IFC and MIGA                           (Extension 33556)
Directors and Department Heads - Bank, IFC and MIGA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



APPENDIX C     page 2 of 11
-2-
3.          The economic reform program,  adopted by the   Government at the
beginning of 1991, has been supported by the World Bank through a Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL I Loan No. 3397-BUL) for US$250 million, which was approved
by the Board on August 1, 1991. The loan became effective on September 27, 1991,
and the first tranche of US$150 million has been fully disbursed. Bank missions
have visited Bulgaria periodically to review progress in implementing the
economic reform program. This memorandum reviews recent economic developments
and progress in implementing the specific actions for second tranche release as
specified in the Loan Agreement.  As discussed below, the Government has met the
conditions for release of the second tranche in all material respects.   The
Government of Bulgaria has, therefore, been advised of the availability of the
second tranche of US$100 million.
4.          The IMF has provided significant support to Bulgaria.   The first
Stand-By Arrangement (SBA, for SDR 279 million) and Compensatory Contingency Fund
Facility (CCFF, for SDR 60.6 million) were completed in early 1992. A second SBA
(for SDR 155 million) was approved in April 1992. Four purchases, totalling SDR
124 million, were made under this SBA, but the last purchase was cancelled as net
bank credit to the general government exceeded the performance criteria at end-
1992.  This weakening of performance was largely the culmination of political
uncertainties which began in mid-1992 and resulted in a change of Government at
end-1992. Negotiations for a new SBA, combined with an STF, have been completed
and the IMF Board is scheduled to consider the new arrangement on April 11.
Substantial assistance has also been provided by the G-24, including EU
commitments for balance of payments support of US$375 million in 1991, which has
been fully disbursed. At a A G-24 meeting held on March 28, 1994, commitments
of about US$260 million of balance-of-payments support were pledged for the
Government's 1994 macroeconomic program.
II. Economic Developments During the Transition
5.          The economy had deteriorated sharply prior to the initiation of the
reform program.   GDP declined by an estimated 12 percent during 1989-90, the
period when the old Communist System collapsed. In 1990, inflation accelerated
to an estimated average annual rate of 30 percent (64 percent by year-end),
shortages became endemic, and the general government budget deficit on a cash
basis rose to 8.5 percent of GDP in 1990 from only 1.4 percent in 1989. This
performance reflected a combination of adverse external shocks connected with the
initial disintegration of the CMEA trading bloc, the domestic effects of the
momentous political change that occurred in Novemrber 1989, and a delay in
undertaking economic reforms. The Gulf Crisis worsened the external situation
through a sharp reduction in trade with both Kuwait and Iraq and higher oil
prices.
6.          Beginning in February 1991, the new coalition Government began to
implement an ambitious economic reform program in the midst of a severe output
decline. Real output is estimated to have declined by about 23 percent, and the
average real wage fell by 29 percent during 1991 and 1992. Unemployment rose
from 1.6 percent of the labor force at end-1990 to uver 15 -percent by end-1992.
While all of the reforming East European countries have experienced large
contractions in output and a rise in unemployment, Bulgaria has been one of the
hardest hit countries.  This partly reflects the dependence of the Bulgarian
economy on trade with the CMEA (particularly the USSR), which accounted for about
70 percent of international trade, and the burden of UN sanctions on Yugoslavia.
The real level of exports of goods and non-factor services (GNFS) to the former
CMEA countries fell by a massive 75 percent between 1990 and 1992. The terms of
trade effect, following the movement to world prices for CMEA trade (particularly
for oil imports),  cost an additional three percent of GDP.   On top of the
disintegration of trade with the Soviet Union, the size of the necessary
adjustment in the external account was exacerbated by slow disbursements of
official assistance and the country's severely restricted access to commercial
bank credit, resulting from the debt moratorium declared in 1990. Nevertheless,
due to the relatively solid performance of exports to convertible currency



APPENDIX C     page 3 of 11
-3-
markets, the decline in total trade was held at 24 percent and 35 percent for
imports and exports respectively. International reserves increased from less
than one week of imports at end-1990 to about four months by end-1992.
7.          Following the liberalization of most prices in February 1991, except
energy, transport and some basic food prices, the price level tripled in two
months, and reached a four-fold increase by end-1991. The initial jump in prices
was magnified by the greater-than-anticipated depreciation of the exchange rate
and the persistence of non-competitive domestic markets. The previous-system of
multiple exchange rates was abolished in early 1991, and a unified exchange rate
system was introduced based on a decentralized inter-bank market.   In the
aftermath of price and exchange rate liberalization, the nominal exchange rate
initially overshot, reaching 28 Leva per US dollar before stabilizing at a level
of about 18-20 Leva per US dollar at end-1991. Inflation moderated during 1992,
as the adjustment to world prices was largely completed, and the Government's
stabilization program took hold. On an end-year basis, inflation averaged about
80 percent during 1992.
8.          Towards the end of 1992, however, growing political difficulties
disrupted the coordinated monetary, fiscal, exchange and interest rate policies
that were so successful in the first 18 months of reforms. The budget shifted
from near balance in the first half of the year to a deficit of about 6.5 percent
of GDP by end-year. Leva financing of the budget exceeded program targets for
net bank financing of the Government. The expansion of credit to the government
crowded out the private sector, and the concentration of money growth in the
second half of the year led to higher inflation.   Incomes policy was also
relaxed.
9.          Political uncertainties and the faltering of the stabilization
program  resulted  in a change of Government  in December  1992.    The  new
administration, led by Prime Minister Berov, in spite of a difficult economic
situation, committed itself to (i) regain momentum on stabilization; (ii)
accelerate privatization; and (iii) contain the revenue erosion from the state
sector tax base. The situation was made more difficult by the tightening of UN
sanctions on the FRY, which directly affected Bulgaria through a cessation of
exports to a growing market and indirectly affected it through the loss of a
critical transit route to Western Europe.'
10.         It has taken time for the present Government to put a credible
macroeconomic stabilization program back in place and to restart structural
reforms. The budget deficit rose significantly to over 9 percent of GDP, owing
to a revenue shortfall that swamped the considerable efforts to control
expenditure. The revenue shortfall was exacerbated by the sanctions on FRY, and
real GDP declined in 1993 by 2-3 percent.   The unemployment rate rose only
slightly, as adjustment in the enterprise sector slowed and workers were absorbed
by the unrecorded private sector or became discouraged, dropping out of the labor
force.   Even though nominal wage increases were formally indexed to past
inflation, real wages are estimated to have declined in 1993, as both the
government and state enterprises delayed granting nominal increases, creating
tensions between government and the labor unions. Inflation declined from 80
percent at end-1992 to about 65 percent at end-1993, dne mainly to the relatively
tight monetary conditions and the appreciation of the real exchange rate.
11.         The external situation deteriorated in 1993.  The trade balance is
estimated to have worsened by about US$400 million. The proximate causes were
the intensification of UN sanctions on the FRY, recession in continental Western
Europe, and expansionary fiscal policy combined with the real currency
appreciation. Unclassified private capital inflows financed a portion of this
swing in the trade account; official inflows were negligible.   As a result,
I  It is estimated that prior to the imposition of UN sanctions on
Yugoslavia 65 percent of all of Bulgaria's external trade with Western Europe
transited through Yugoslavia.



APPENDIX C     page 4 of 11
-4-.
official international reserves declined by about US$270 million by end-2993.
At the end of 1993 and in early 1994, the lev has come under increasing pressure,
depreciating in real terms by over 20 percent in the past two months.
12.         The Government  has recently  taken  steps  to  reinstate  a firm
stabilization program and move forward with structural reforms. The Government
formulated and the Parliament enacted a macroeconomic framework and budget for
1994, which envisages a budget deficit of about 6.5 percent of GDP, with a
primary surplus of 2.5 percent--a significant tightening over the 1993 outcome.
The budget is being supplemented by a number of new revenue measures to reverse
the deterioration in the revenue base. A VAT was recently enacted with an 18
percent flat rate. Furthermore, measures are contemplated to improve financial
discipline in the state-owned enterprises.
13.         The Government has also continued its efforts to implement the
structural reform program supported by the SAL, albeit at a slower pace than
originally envisaged.   This program has worked toward:   (i) developing an
incentive and regulatory framework conducive to, and supportive of, private
sector development; (ii) accelerating the privatization of state-owned assets --
including agricultural land, small shops and enterprises, and large enterprises;
and (iii) restructuring state enterprises and banks to improve their efficiency
and prepare them for privatization. These reforms were supported by the World
Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan and are described in Section III below.
III.  Review of Implementation of Actions for Second Tranche Release
14.         The program supported by the SAL for Bulgaria is outlined in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP) dated July 5, 1991 and the matrix
of policy reform actions attached to the LDP.  This section discusses in detail
the specific measures listed for second tranche release in Annex III of the Loan
Agreement.
(i) Macroeconomic Stabilization
15.         Tranche condition 1:   Continued maintenance of a macroeconomic
framework consistent with the objectives of the Program as determined on the
basis of performance criteria acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
16.         Political uncertainties and larger-than-expected external shocks,
particularly the tightening of UN sanctions on the FRY, have made it extremely
difficult for the authorities to meet macroeconomic performance targets. These
factors have had their greatest impact on fiscal revenues, increasing the budget
deficit substantially in 1993.
17.         Throughout 1993, the Government took measures aimed at stemming the
widening budget deficit, including the imposition of import surcharges, higher
excise taxes, and increases in energy and transport prices. A VAT was passed
by the Parliament in October 1993 and is expected to begin implementation in
April 1994. A law on tax procedures and administration was passed; two new laws,
regarding personal and corporate income taxation, are currently being debated in
Parliament. Continued revenue decline and expenditure rigidity caused the budget
deficit to increase from 6.7 percent of GDP in 1992 to 11 percent in 1993.
However, a tight monetary stance and flexible exchange rate management lowered
inflation from 80 percent at end-1992 to an estimated 65 percent at end-1993.
18.         The Government has taken a number of steps in 1994 to tighten fiscal
policy and strengthen the macroeconomic framework. This macroeconomic framework,
which is incorporated in the 1994 Budget, was passed by Parliament on March 1,
1994. The program envisages a halving of inflation to about 30 percent in 1994
and a substantial improvement in the non-interest current account balance.
Supported by an IMF arrangement, the program has three basic components: (a) a
fiscal deficit of about 6.5 percent of GDP and a primary surplus of 2.5 percent,
with allowance for substantial expenditures related to the structural reform



APPENDIX C     page 5 of 11
-5-
process including partial recapitalization of banks; (b) monetary and exchange
rate policies designed to support the program's inflation objective and build
sufficient international reserves for the up-front costs of the prospective DDSR
program (see para. 24 below); and (c) an incomes policy based on projected
inflation, i.e., a return to the incomes policy of 1991 and early 1992 that
served as a nominal anchor for the early stabilization program. This incomes
policy will also help secure financial discipline in the enterprise sector.
19.         The Government's macroeconomic program could establish a s6lid basis
for a recovery of economic growth, as indicated by the macroeconomic indicators
monitored under the SAL (see Table 1). Exports in convertible currencies have
grown rapidly, although hampered recently by the sanctions on FRY. The share of
the private sector in GDP is also estimated to have exceeded expectations,
although one must acknowledge the preliminary nature of the underlying data.
Private sector growth is most striking in agriculture where, at end-1992, output
from private farmers is estimated at 50 percent of total agricultural production,
reflecting the transfer of a large proportion of production into private hands.
Two other factors have also contributed to this increase in private activity:
the more rapid-than-anticipated contraction in output from state-owned
enterprises; and the restitution of many small shops and buildings to their
previous owners.
20.         Based on Bulgaria's macroeconomic performance, as indicated by the
monitored indicators and the 1994 macroeconomic framework, Bank staff judge that
macroeconomic performance has been sufficient to meet this condition for SAL
second tranche release.
Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators to be Monitored under the SAL
(In Percent)
1991              1992              1993         1994
Program  Actual   Program  Actual   Program  Est.   Program
Real Export Growth"      -25.0  -46.6         6.0       0.5      6.5   -3.4       6.8
Private Sector Share
of GDP                     2.0   15.0         8.0      25.0     15.0   35.0    30.0
Private individual and
Cooperative Farms Share
of Agricultural GDP       15.0   36.0        40.0      50.0     60.0   60.0    85.0
Ratio of Government
Subsidies to GDP           3.2    4.2         2.0       1.7      2.0    2.32J   2.0
1/    Merchandise exports (fob) deflated by MUV.
2/    Excludes BFTB set-offs totalling 0.8 percent of GDP.
Source: World Bank Staff estimates.
-   ,



APPENDIX C     page 6 of 11
-6-
(ii) External Debt Management
21.         Tranche Condition 2:  Production of a database of the Borrower's
external debt and the adoption of a debt strategy consistent with the macro-
economic framework referred to in the preceding paragraph i i.e., (1) above).
22.         The authorities have made excellent progress in establishing a modern
debt database.   In mid-1991,  the existing debt database was incapable of
generating the information needed to reconcile information with credit6rs and it
contained numerous data errors. Using Japanese grant financing, the World Bank
organized the purchase of the equipment and software required to build a new data
base. The Government established a Debt Information Group which is now fully
staffed and trained. In order to protect the new database from past errors, it
was built up from the original loan contracts.   While this took longer than
expected, the data base was virtually complete by end-1993, and the unit is now
fully operational.
23.         The authorities have also made significant progress in formulating
and implementing a debt strategy.   Regarding the Paris Club, all bilateral
agreements for 1991 and 1992 have been signed and ratified, except for two; the
authorities are committed to concluding these two bilaterals shortly.   The
Government is in the process of resolving all outstanding issues related to
nonreschedulable arrears.  The Government has also indicated its intention to
seek a meeting of the Paris Club to settle arrears on obligations coming due
after April 30, 1993, as soon as an SBA is in place with the IMF; a Paris Club
meeting is now expected to take place in April or May 1994.
24.         On November 24, 1993, the Government of Bulgaria, after discussions
with its Bank Advisory Committee (BAC), announced its intention to conclude a
debt and debt service reduction operation (DDSR) with Bulgaria's commercial bank
creditors. Almost all commercial bank debt contracted by the Bulgarian Foreign
Trade Bank (BFTB), about US$8.5 billion, including interest arrears, would be
eligible for the operation.   Agreement has now been reached on the debt
restructuring,  and a June 30, 1994 target date was set for closing.   The
Bulgarian Parliament approved the DDSR operation in principle in December 1993,
and Bulgaria  re-started  partial  interest  payments.    With the  successful
conclusion of the deal, a major constraint for the long-run growth of the
Bulgarian economy will have been removed.
(iii) Competition and a Market-Based Set of Relative Prices
25.         Tranche Condition 3: Implementation of a program satisfactory to the
Bank for the reduction of non-tariff barriers and export taxes.
26.         Trade reform has progressed significantly under the SAL. All export
prohibitions have been removed, except for a ban on grain products, which is due
to expire in September 1994, and some scrap metal products for safety reasons.
The Government replaced the other export quotas (about 10) with export taxes,
underlining its intention to remove all quantitative restrictions as soon as
domestic conditions permit. On the import side, non-tariff barriers were limited
to three items (oranges, ice cream, and tobacco). An import surcharge of 15
percent was added to some goods in 1992, but this has been converted to an
across-the-board three percent surcharge for 1993, intended to bolster government
revenues. Although not part of SAL conditionality, the authorities implemented
a further improvement to the trade regime on July 1, 1992, adopting a new tariff
schedule with a floor tariff of 5 percent and a ceiling of 40 percent, with only
a few exemptions.  This has greatly reduced both the level and dispersion of
nominal and effective rates of protection and enhanced the collection of tax
revenue.



APPENDIX C     page 7 of 11
-7-
(iv) Private Sector Development
27.         Tranche condition 4:  Adoption of a framework satisfactory to the
Bank for the privatization of large state-owned enterprises, including: (i) the
enactment of a privatization law and implementing regulations; and (ii) the
adoption of an action program for privatization of selected large state
enterprises in 1992.
28.         Since early 1992, Parliament has adopted three restitution laws
restoring ownership rights to previous owners of a wide variety of assets which
had been confiscated or nationalized since 1947. These laws cover small shops
and establishments, residential property, and industrial property (to the extent
that the dimensions of such industrial property have not changed). By September
1993,  25 thousand urban properties,  representing about- 60 percent of all
applications received, had been restituted. This restitution of small shops and
residential property has led to a flourishing private retail and trade sector.
29.         In April 1992, the Government adopted a comprehensive privatization
law.   The  "Transformation  and Privatization of State-Owned and Municipal
Enterprises Act" (i.e., the Privatization Law) is an enabling law which allows
for  a  flexible  multi-track  approach to privatization.    The  law permits
privatization to be initiated by different actors (Government, Privatization
Agency, municipalities, enterprises, and employees) using a variety of
privatization  methods.    The  process  is regulated  and  supervised  by the
Privatization Agency (PA), which reports to the National Assembly and the Council
of Ministers. With the necessary implementing regulations issued, the existing
legal framework is sufficient to carry out the process of privatization, although
more slowly than originally intended.
30.         The PA developed and adopted, in conjunction with the appropriate
line ministries, a 1992 Privatization Program for Small and Large Enterprises
which was discussed and endorsed by the Council of Ministers. It included about
90 enterprises, of which 10 were large enterprises (i.e., with fixed assets
exceeding Leva 10 million).   A Privatization Program was also developed and
partially implemented in 1993, bringing the total number of enterprises eligible
for privatization to 318, including about 86 large enterprises.   As of end-
January 1994, 13 transactions of substantial size had been completed; several
more sizeable deals were nearing completion, and some 105 smaller deals had been
concluded. It became apparent by the end of 1993, however, and the Government
has realized, that the transactions-based privatizations intended under the
Privatization Law could proceed only slowly. Therefore, it has submitted for
Parliamentary approval a mass privatization program intended to accelerate
privatization. The proposed mass privatization would involve in its first stage
about 500 large and medium-sized enterprises. The Government is also submitting
to Parliament, with the mass privatization program, a number of important changes
to the Privatization Law, which are designed to accelerate privatization under
the existing framework.
31.         Tranche condition 5: Continued progress satisfactory to the Bank in
carrying out of the Borrower's program for the privatization of cultivable land,
verified by evidence of transfer of land titles to private owners.
32.         During appraisal of the SAL, the Government indicated that by end-
1991 private farmers would have title to about 20 percent of the cultivable land.
Progress on the issuance of land titles, however, was initially slower than
envisaged due to a combination of factors: (i) the difficulties of implementing
the original Land Reform Act (adopted in mid-1991), which was flawed by the many
compromises accepted to expedite its passage; (ii) the weak implementation
capacity of the National Land Council (NLC); (iii) delay in required budget
appropriations; and (iv) an underestimation of the time required to complete the
physical, administrative and legal processes necessary to issue clear legal title
to the land.



APPENDIX C     page 8 of 11
-8-
33.         Since the beginning of 1992, the Government has taken a number of
legal and institutional measures to address this situation. First, the legal
framework for land restitution has been greatly improved.   A comprehensive
amendment to the Land Act adopted in early 1992 greatly reduced the obstacles to
reform and quickly created a land market.   In addition,  new implementing
regulations speeded up and simplified administrative procedures concerning land
surveying and land registration. Second, a number of institutional changes have
been made. The top management of the NLC was replaced, and the institution was
placed under the direct control of the Minister of Agriculture.
34.   The pace of land restitution accelerated considerably, particularly in
1993, and about 44 percent of agricultural land had been restituted through
final land ownership decisions by end-1993.   Moreover,  about 3.4 million
hectares, or 70 percent of agricultural land subject to restitution is being
privately farmed, including under temporary land use permits. In Bulgaria, land
is restituted through final land ownership decisions, which are de facto land
titles. These decisions are recognized as ownership documents and can be used
for loan collateral.   Land titles, which are issued by the courts, are only
necessary if the land is to be subdivided or sold, and the cost of obtaining a
land title is not insignificant.   As a result, only a few landowners have
received land titles. At end-January 1994, information available at the Ministry
of Agriculture indicated that about 1,500 private farmers had received land
titles.2
(v) State Enterprise Restructuring
35.         Tranche condition 6: Adoption of an action program satisfactory to
the Bank for improving the organization, management and operation of state-owned
enterprises which provides, inter-alia, for: (i) the establishment of effective
boards of directors for said enterprises; and (ii) the conversion of said
enterprises into joint-stock companies pursuant to the Borrower's Commercial Law
adopted on May 16, 1991.
36.         The authorities instituted the commercialization of state enterprises
(SEs), with a view to prepare them for privatization. Most large conglomerates
and trusts have been broken up  in industry, trade, tourism, transport, and
construction. Following the introduction of the new Company Act on July 1, 1991,
the demonopolized enterprises have been transformed into, and registered as,
commercial companies (both joint-stock companies and limited liability companies)
with the state as single shareholder. The transformation process also has been
applied to SOEs which have not required break-up.  Out of 3,307 SOEs in all
sectors, 3,059 SOEs have been transformed into commercial companies, while
preparation is under way for transformation of many of the remaining 248 SOEs.
37.         At the same time, the Government has appointed new board members on
all  transformed  joint-stock  companies.    Findings  from mission  visits to
industrial enterprises indicate that newly appointed board members and managers
are managing their enterprises largely without interference from the Government.
The Ministry of Industry (MOI) has further developed both procedures for the
selection of new managers on the basis of a competitive process, and related
management contracts which tie remuneration to agreed performance targets. In
the case of joint-stock companies, the respective boards of directors would enter
into such contracts with the selected managers. For limited liability companies,
the sector ministries would select the managers.  So far, MOI has selected a
number of managers on the basis of the new procedures, and the related management
contracts have been submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval.   Other
sector ministries are adopting the MOI procedures for management contracts.
2   There  is  no  systematic  interchange  of  information  or  reporting
requirements between the courts and the Ministry of Agriculture regarding the
issuance of land titles.



APPENDIX C     page 9 of 11
-9-
38.         Tranche condition 7:  Development of an action plan satisfactory to
the Bank providing for measures for the containment of growth of arrears in
inter-enterprise credits.
39.         An action program, entitled "Program for Improving the Financial
Discipline of the State Enterprises, Reduction of the Obligations Towards the
Suppliers and the Arrears Towards the Banks" was prepared by a joint working
group from the Ministries of Finance and Industry. Bank staff commented on a
draft and, after revisions were made, the program was approved by the Council of
Ministers in May 1992.  Prior to adoption of the program, the Government had
taken some measures including raising the daily rate of interest on overdue
payables to a level above the basic rate and preparing an improved enterprise
financial performance monitoring system using technical assistance financed by
the EC-Phare program.  The Government also initiated a process to close uranium
and other ore mines and factories. The action program outlines measures to: (i)
initiate  the  liquidation  of  chronic  loss-making  enterprises,  including
identification of such enterprises, and development of a time-bound program for
their liquidation; (ii) introduce an improved bankruptcy framework for which
legislation is currently in Parliament; (iii) use the Government's ownership role
in SOEs to stimulate enterprise managers to stop the delivery of goods to
enterprises in arrears; and (iv) apply increased financial penalties on those
enterprises in arrears. Inter-enterprise arrears (excluding agriculture) grew
by Leva 5 billion in 1992 reaching Leva 13 billion by the end of 1992. This
amounted to about 6.2 percent of GDP; a real decLine of 8 percent compared to the
previous year. By end-September 1993, inter-enterprise payments in arrears had
grown by only Leva 4 billion to Leva 17 billion--a further decrease in real
terms.
(vi) Financial Sector Reforms
40.         Tranche condition 8:  Submission to Parliament, for enactment, of a
draft law on banks and credit activity and the adoption of banking supervision
standards satisfactory to the Bank and initiation of the implementation thereof
by the Bulgarian National Bank.
41.         Satisfactory, albeit slow, progress has been achieved in all three
areas.  First after receiving comments from many experts, including Bank staff,
the Law on Banks and Credit Activity was adopted in early 1992.   This law
provides the basic legal framework for the operation of commercial banks within
a two-tier banking system. Second, BNB issued prudential regulations in six key
areas (see para. 42 below):   (i) licensing; (ii) large and internal credits;
(iii) capital adequacy; (iv) loan classification; (v) provisioning; and (vi)
liquidity. Finally, BNB has made efforts to enhance the capability of their
Banking Supervision Department, which is receiving technical assistance from a
resident  advisor  financed by the U.S.  Treasury.   The Banking Supervision
Department has also begun a series of "pilot" on-site inspections, assisted by
officials of the Chicago Federal Reserve Board. A program for regular, full-
scale bank examinations with the assistance of external auditing firms is being
developed with input from Bank staff.
42.         In  August 1993, after a long process of drafting and consultation
involving the Bank, the IMF and the commercial banks, BNB promulgated the last
of the prudential regulations required under the SAL program. These regulations
still suffer from some deficiencies, largely in the direction of excessive
complexity and unduly high standards that may prove difficult to enforce. Bank
staff, nevertheless, consider the regulations to be adequate action for now and
believe that, with some adjustments, they will become effective instruments for
supervising the banking sector.   Bank staff have discussed the recommended
adjustments of the prudential regulations with BNB staff, and BNB management has
assured the Bank that the noted shortcomings are being addressed.   BNB has
already revised some regulations and is working on further revisions.
43.         Tranche condition 9:  The carrying out of a program satisfactory to
the Bank for the restructuring and consolidation of banks, including: (i) the
establishment of a temporary bank consolidation company and the transfer to said



APPENDIX C     page 10 of 1
- 10 -
company of all shares in banks held by public enterprises, institutions and
banks; and (ii) the initiation by said company of a program agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank for the merger of banks.
44.         Under the SAL, the authorities agreed to initiate a far reaching and
comprehensive reform of the existing state-owned banking system.  One of the
initial steps that needed to be taken, as agreed under the first tranche of the
SAL, was a "Study on Structural Issues of the Banking System."  This study,
issued in September 1992, provided the authorities with detailed recommendations
for the design and implementation of a comprehensive merger of state-controlled
banks. As a second tranche condition, it was agreed that a Bank Consolidation
Company (BCC) would be formed to assume majority share ownership of the state
banks in order to undertake the necessary consolidation process. The BCC was
registered as a joint stock company on January 23, 1992, and has acquired about
90 percent of the shares of the state banks previously owned by public entities.
BCC defined the criteria to be used for merging the banks and established a
database required to assess alternative grouping proposals. The merger process
is now almost completed. It has involved the merger of 66 public sector banks
into 11 major banks, including five banks which will not be merged.  Another
three small banks are expected to be liquidated or sold.
(vii) Enercgy Pricing
45.         Tranche condition 10:  Continued adjustment of the prices of basic
utilities, particularly energy, to contain budgetary subsidies therefrom at a
level consistent with fiscal targets specified in the program.
46.         In February 1991, at the start of the stabilization program, the
authorities raised energy prices 3 to 8 fold, agreeing to make a further
adjustment when the exchange rate stabilized. Subsequently, energy prices were
raised significantly in June 1991, May 1992, January 1993, May 1993, February
1994, and March 1994.  Further increases of household electricity prices are
scheduled for April 1, 1994.   Partly as a result of these actions, total
budgetary subsidies for 1991 were reduced from 15 percent of GDP in 1990 to an
estimated 2.3 percent in 1993.   Under a recent Energy Loan, the Government
committed to further energy price increases and to set up a mechanism to base
energy prices on long-run cost considerations.
(viii) Social Safety Net and Labor Markets
47.         Tranche condition 11: Carrying out a program satisfactory to the Bank
for the proper targeting and delivery of unemployment benefits, pensions, sick
pay, family allowances, and social assistance.
48.         The authorities have made progress in reforming social safety net
policies. In certain areas, action has been completed, e.g., with respect to
developing a program to provide social assistance on the basis of income, wealth
and employment tests, and lowering poverty and unemployment traps in the benefit
system. Social insurance contribution rates have also been adjusted to reflect
differential risk and improve the financial viability of the funds. In other
areas, progress was slower than originally anticipated, partly due to a delay in
mobilizing the necessary technical assistance, e.g. in improving the actuarial
structure of pensions and developing the long-term planning of benefit policies.
49.         During  1992,  the Government  implemented a number of  important
additional measures which were sufficient to meet the second tranche condition
of the SAL. Regarding pensions, the most difficult, but important, step was the
adoption of an amendment to the existing pension law. The Pension Reform Act of
1992:  (i) raised the retirement age in the special categories by two years;
(ii) significantly scaled back rights to early retirement; (iii) taxed the
pensions of those who continue to work after retirement; and (iv) introduced a
benefit structure which provides an incentive to work beyond the minimum
retirement age.  Regarding family allowances, the Government has reduced the
differences among payments per child, lowering significantly the incentives for
having additional children. Implementing regulations to the Social Assistance



APPENDIX C      page 11 of 11
Law, which increase the real level of cash benefits at the same time as improving
targeting to needed groups, have been adopted by the Council of Ministers.
50.         Finally, at the suggestion of Bank staff, the Government has formed
an inter-ministerial working group to design a comprehensive reform of the social
security system, and explore options to stimulate the provision of private
insurance. This working group is now completing a "White Paper" on the subject.
IV. Bulgaria's Relations with the IMF
51.         The last drawing under the second SBA scheduled for end-1992 was
cancelled,  as the performance criterion related to net bank credit to the
Government was exceeded as a result of the loosening of fiscal policy in late-
1992. An Article IV discussion was held at the IMF Board on September 15, 1993.
The Executive Directors, while noting the external shocks that the economy had
suffered, particularly the effect of sanctions on the FRY, stressed the need for
quick and forceful action to restore fiscal discipline, including reinstituting
the incomes policy of 1991-1992. Negotiations for a third SBA, supplemented by
an STF, have been successfully concluded, and the IMF Board will consider a new
arrangement on April 11, 1994.
V. Disbursements
52.         Following the effectiveness of the Loan on September 27, 1991, the
first tranche of US$150 million has been fully disbursed. The procurement of
eligible goods has been carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines and
to the Bank's satisfaction. The loan agreement for US$100 million cofinancing
by the EXIM Bank of Japan has been signed.
VI. Conclusion
53.         The Bulgarian Government has made important progress implementing its
economic reform program despite extremely adverse external circumstances. The
collapse in CMEA trade, severely restricted access to private foreign capital,
the UN sanctions against the FRY and the less-than-expected inflow of official
financing, have all added to the burden of adjustment. It has taken longer than
anticipated to adopt some of the fundamental pieces of legislation required to
initiate the process of structural change, in turn delaying the implementation
of these changes. Nonetheless, significant progress on structural reform has
been made in all  areas covered by the SAL.   Furthermore,  a satisfactory
stabilization program is in place to reduce inflation further   and preserve
external balance.
54.         The program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment
supported by the SAL has been complied with in all material aspects.   The
Government of Bulgaria, therefore, has been notified of the availability of the
second tranche of US$100 million. The EXIM Bank of Japan has been advised, as
specified in the Co-lenders agreement.
Lewis T. Preston
President






IBRD 26532
2i2-           \                i3                              24                             25                              26                              27                          /   ie.                             29
-449   _-   <   aKSs -                                                  ~~R O  M  A  N  I A_.                                             4uo=n                          _4'
.1 /fl R-    Oen.Do
To Z=,i.o, oEdo             Cololot                                                                                                                                 lfl=Of~s                  M 
A.jr Woo  0-Tu- Mo,-e                                     RAZGRAD  ''";-. G                                             K            |
CL ADNA                                                                                                                              VA RN A           SoIo Koon
Y   U    G     O S LA V IA V                                                                                                                         T  .I  A  '                                      )           BoIch,L.j
A3'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        43'
Zr'I=tIn=  } _X   (   \   ~  gj   (<J._  . J -. >       he5=ro Oryokh-o=
.6.                  m       r                            roy=n      G.bf             tj                                |"g                    '
To E=n'       y=shooo                     RIsk,        *t"'               Pozordoh.L  p)  (
42                                             BI'e';  o                                                                                                                                            olLosti       Reco so_,>   r=                         42'
F Y R               OS=ndonsk  D GI=l^ /  X~~~~~~SonLy                           -          K        t(gooenets  9t^*
M A C E D O N I A            .= 5rr'mc= \  TGoedo=erro'D                                                       <p-o                                              k URGAS                             BULGARIA
22'                *                    loSo'ot~8.60   ~ F     A                                                                                                                                 EETDCTE   N   ON
I i      ?' 236       > Serr=l                                                  s    k    r -'     ~    >                   '                                          EB    ORLAST  CA T AALS   TO   N
HU2GARY'                     \     B                                     G    R   F   E   C   E                         To &o,ro, g                                                                     _          TOAL P
F   Y   R                                                                                          KUKRINEdSROAD
MACDROMANIA                                 Td ..                                                                                                                                                    B   POG             RI
2,2-                                                                                                                                                         s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OBLAST BONARIEAS
-41                                                                                                                                           -        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
)FED REP <-'*
A  OF
YUGOSLAVIA      .?)                                                                                                                                                                                   2j       Ali     65       80     lOS
/\ .r  Soflo  -    _ _                                                                                                                                                                               K OMETEES eo toL
ALBANIA/                                U  R K E Y                                                                                                                                                       -Po-n ont I, - .p-ono,,otply on te- oGofThe Wo, tUGtoupp,
R>  GREECE                                                          24                               25'                               26
DECEMBER 1994









IMAGING
Report No:       14746
Type: ICR



