Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7387-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Rural Poverty Reduction Project -
 Ceará) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF CEARÁ 
 
Dated July 7, 2006  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7387-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 7, 2006, entered into between the INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (
“Bank”) and the STATE 
OF CEARÁ (“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities 
related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II —FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty seven million five hundred 
thousand Dollars ($37,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.08
 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to: (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
the Commitment Charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 3.01 of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth 
anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.75%) per annum thereafter; subject in either case to any waiver of a portion of 
such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, with the prior non-objection of the 
Guarantor, through the Secretariat of National Treasury of the 
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance, request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt 
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
Page  4
-
3
-
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Local and Regional 
Development Secretariat with the assistance of the Municipal Councils, in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan 
which expire on December 6, 2007. 
4.02 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has 
been duly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil. 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. The Borrower
’s Representative is the Borrower’s Local and Regional 
Development Secretary. 
Page  5
-
4
-
5.02. The 
Borrower
’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Local e Regional 
 
Estado do Ceará 
 
Centro Administrativo Governador Virgilio Távora – Cambeba 
 
60.830-120 Fortaleza, Ceará 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-85) 3101-4472 
 
With copy to: 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
 
Secretaria do Planejamento e Coordenação do 
 
Estado do Ceará 
 
Centro Administrativo Governador Virgílio Távora - Cambeba 
 
60839-900  Fortaleza, Ceará 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-85) 3101-4518 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at 
Brasília, Federal District, Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF CEARÁ 
 
By /s/ Alex Araújo 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase social and economic 
opportunities for the Municipalities' rural poor by improving access to basic, social and 
economic infrastructure through Community Subprojects; (b) to increase the social 
capital of rural communities to organize collectively and meet their own needs; (c) to 
foster local governance and citizenship through strengthening of Municipal Councils, at 
the same time forging links with governmental and non-governmental agencies, civil 
society, financial institutions and the private sector; and (d)  to scale up the impact of the 
Original Project by using the social capital created by the Original Project to further 
increase incomes of the rural poor and by fostering closer integration of development 
policies, programs and projects in rural areas at the local level, by assisting Municipal 
Councils to extend their role in seeking funding from, setting priorities for and making 
decisions concerning the allocation of resources from other programs beyond the Project. 
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project, as 
amended below solely for purposes of the Loan: 
Part 1
:
Community Subprojects
:
Financing through Area Grants of small scale 
community investments (Community Subprojects) consisting, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) 
infrastructure investments such as rural water supply, electrification and access to 
communities’ improvements; (b) social investments such as construction of day care 
centers and rehabilitation of schools and health posts; and (c) other investments such as 
small-scale community agro-processing, purchase of agricultural equipment and minor 
irrigation schemes. 
Part 2
:
Institutional Development
:
(a) Provision of technical assistance and training for 
Community Associations in, 
inter alia
,
community mobilization and organization, 
preparation of Community Subprojects, and operation and maintenance of such 
Community Subprojects; (b) training and equipping of Municipal Councils with respect 
to the role of Municipal Councils, the contents of the Operational Manual, Community 
Subproject evaluation and supervision, environmental assessment of Community 
Subprojects, participatory planning and financial management; (c) provision of on-the-job 
training and expert advice for the STU, Municipal Councils, and Community Associations 
on technical matters regarding the Community Subprojects preparation/execution cycle 
(such matters to include, for example, standard designs, monitoring techniques and 
financial management); (d) provision of technical assistance for the Local and Regional 
Development Secretariat in support of the implementation of the Borrower's modernization 
reforms in areas related to the Project; and (e) carrying out of workshops and seminars for 
Municipal Councils and Community Associations to exchange views and disseminate 
information and experience with respect to the carrying out of the Project. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Part 3
:
Project Administration
:
Support to the overall Project implementation, 
coordination and supervision including, 
inter alia
:
(a) the operation of the STU and its 
field offices related to Project implementation; (b) the operation of the MIS; (c) the 
carrying out of the statewide information campaign initiated under the Original Project to 
disseminate information about the Project; and (d) the carrying out of studies to assess the 
impact of the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
a
baseline evaluation study, a physical 
performance review, a mid-term implementation review, and a comprehensive impact 
evaluation. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, through the 
Local and Regional Development Secretariat, maintain during Project 
implementation, the STU with responsibilities, structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower, through the Local and Regional Development Secretariat, shall 
enter into Area Grant Agreements whenever appropriate for the carrying out of 
the Project, such agreements to be made in accordance with the terms of the 
respective draft set forth in the New Model Forms. 
3. 
The Borrower shall continue: (a) preparing and furnishing to the Bank annual 
operating plans and budgets, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project 
activities proposed to be carried out during the next succeeding year and the 
respective sources of funding therefor, by October 30 of each year; and  (b) 
 
furnishing to the Bank the approved annual operating plans and respective budget 
(Approved POA) referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each year in 
question, not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower's annual 
budget by its 
Assembléia Legislativa
 (Legislative Assembly). 
4. 
The Borrower shall continue carrying out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual and the Approved POAs, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual 
and agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month 
after the end of the period covered by such report. 
Page  10
-
9
-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than one month after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1
.
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  11
-
10
-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
National Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than National Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  Shopping 
(b) 
Goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) under 
Community Subprojects, costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual for 
community participation. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
(a) Least-Cost Selection 
 
(b) Single Source Selection 
 
(c) Individual Consultants 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Page  12
-
11
-
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank
’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. General. 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Borrower, to finance Eligible Expenditures, Area Grants 
and New Administrative Costs as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures, Area Grants and New Administrative Costs 
in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Area Grants (goods, works 
 
75% of the cost of the 
 
and services) 
 
Community Subproject 
 
financed by an Area  
 
Grant  
 
 
(a)  Area 1 Grants 
13,020,000 
 
(b)  Area 2 Grants 
8,670,000 
 
(c)  Area 3 Grants 
9,300,000 
 
(2) Consultants' services 
4,240,000 
 
100% 
 
and training for Parts 
 
2
and 3 of the Project 
Page  13
-
12
-
(3)  New Administrative Costs: 
 
(a) incremental operational  
270,000 
 
20% 
 
costs  
 
 
 
(b) Project supervision and 
405,000 
 
50% 
 
monitoring costs 
 
(4)  Fee  
93,750 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
-0- 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Collars 
 
Section 2.08 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated  
1,501,250 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 37,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
payments under an Area Grant for a Community Subproject costing more 
than the equivalent of $50,000, unless the Bank shall have approved such 
Community Subproject. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009.  The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the Guarantor
’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank 
that it agrees with such extension.
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning July 15, 2011  
 
through July 15, 2022 
 
4.17 % 
On January 15, 2023 
4.09 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Page  15
-
14
-
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
APPENDIX 
 Section 
I
.
Definitions
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Original 
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set 
forth, and are hereby incorporated to this Agreement. Additionally, the following 
definitions also constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
1. 
“Area Grants” means Area 1 Grants, Area 2 Grants and/or Area 3 Grants. 
2. 
“Area Grant Agreements” means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a Community Association, providing for an Area 
Grant. 
3. 
“Area 1 Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to a Community 
Association for the financing of Community Subprojects in those Municipalities 
with an Index of Social Development up to 0.3665 points. 
4. 
“Area 2 Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to a Community 
Association for the financing of Community Subprojects in those Municipalities 
with an Index of Social Development greater than 0.3665 and less than 0.4145 
points. 
5. 
“Area 3 Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to a Community 
Association for the financing of Community Subprojects in those remaining 
Municipalities not covered by Area 1 and Area 2 Grants. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
8. 
“Index of Social Development” means the index which measures the social 
development of the Borrower’s municipalities, issued by the Borrower’s 
Instituto 
de Pesquisa e Estrat
égia Econômica - IPECE
,
and based on data on education, 
health, housing conditions, employment and income and rural development.  
Page  17
-
16
-
9. 
“Local and Regional Development Secretariat” means the Borrower’s 
Secretaria 
do Desenvolvimento Local e Regional. 
10. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project 
between the Bank and the Borrower, dated October 29, 2001 (Loan No.4626-
BR). 
11. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
12. 
“New Administrative Costs” means the operational costs (which would not have 
occurred absent the Project) and the supervision and monitoring costs of the 
Project incurred by the STU under Part 3 of the Project excluding expenditures 
for salaries and related benefits and training. 
13. 
“New Model Forms” means the set of model draft Area Grant Agreements 
satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 14, 2005 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
