                                       Documentof
                                    The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                   ReportNo: 36062-BR




                                    PROJECTPAPER

                                          ONA

                PROPOSEDADDITIONALFINANCING(LOAN)

                                 INTHEAMOUNTOF
                                   US$37.5 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                  STATEOF CEARA

                          WITH THE GUARANTEE OFTHE
                       FEDERATIVEREPUBLIC OFBRAZIL

                                        FORTHE

               CEARARURAL POVERTYREDUCTION PROJECT



                                      May8,2006



BrazilCountryManagementUnit
Environmentallyand Socially SustainableDevelopment Sector ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andCaribbeanRegion


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosed without
WorldBank authorization.

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange RateEffectiveNovember 30,2005)
           CurrencyUnit = Real(R$)
                   R$1.00 = US$0.4533
                 US$l.OO =          R$2.20620

                     FISCAL YEAR
               January 1      - December31

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CDD           Community-Driven Development
COPE          Coordenadoria de Projetos Especiais
              (The Coordination for Special Projects)
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
IDS           Index of Social Development
IEG           IndependentEvaluation Group
IPPF          Indigenous Peoples' PlanningFramework
MIS           Management InformationSystem
O & M         Operations andMaintenance
PPA           State Multi-year Investment Program
RPRP          Rural Poverty Reduction Program
SDLR          Secretaria Estadual de DesenvolvimentoRegional e Local
              (State Secretariat of Local and Regional Development)
SEPLAN        Secretaria Estadual de Planejamento
              (State Secretariat of Planning)
STU           State Technical Unit




           Vice President:       PamelaCox
         Country Director:       John Briscoe
          Sector Director:       Laura Tuck
        Task Team Leader:        Jorge Munoz

                                                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



             CEARA RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
                                            BRAZIL

                              ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                         Page

   I Introduction
    .                ..............................................................................       1

   11 BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancing
     .                                                                  ...............................   1

   III.Appraisal of Scaled-upProject Activities          ............................................     4

         a. Economic andFinancial Analyses..............................................                  4
         b Technical Analysis.,.
          .                            .............................................................
         cd. Fiduciary Analysis                                                                           4
          .                         ................................................................
             Safeguards   ..........................................................................      55

   Iv. ExpectedOutcomes.,       ...................................................................       6

   V . Benefits andRisks    .......................................................................       6

   VI. Financial Terms andConditions for the Additional Financing                    .................... 7

   VII.Allocation of LoanProceeds        ...........................................................      7




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
                                      .
World Bank authorization.


                               PROJECTPAPERDATA       SHEET




Responsible agency: COPE/ State Secretariat for Local andRegionalDevelopment




Does the restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions from
Bank policies?                                                            [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?              [ ]Yes [XINO




                  Source                            Local       Foreign           Total
Borrower                                              6.75           0.75          7.50
[BRD                                                 31.87                        37.50
                                                                     0.00 I
                                                                     5.63
C'ommunity Associations                      I        5.00 I                       5.OO
rota1                                               43.62 I          6.38I        50.00


 I.Introduction

 This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional loan in
 the amount of US$37.50 million to the State of Cearii, with the Guarantee of the Federative
 Republic of Brazil, for the Cearii Rural Poverty ReductionProject (Ln.4626-BR).

 The proposed additional loan would help finance the costs associated with the scaling-up of
 activities to enhance the impact of this well-performing project. No major changes are proposed
 to the design or implementation arrangements of the ongoing project. The Additional Financing
 would continue to finance basic small-scale socio-economic infrastructure and foster the closer
 integration of rural development policies, programs and projects at the local level, by
 mainstreaming the project municipal councils' participatory mechanisms to seek funding from,
 set priorities for and make decisions concerning the allocation of resources from other State and
 Federal programs outside the Bank-supported project.

 Partnership arrangements: While the proposed Additional Financing does not envisage specific
 partnership arrangements with other international financing agencies, it i s designed to forge even
 stronger linkages between the project and a series of State and Federal programs and projects
 also operating in the rural space in Cearii. Partnerships of this kind under the existing project
have included the Luz para Todos (Light for All) National Program, the National Family
Agriculture Program (PRONAF) and land settlement operations of the National Institute for
Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA). The approach to enhancing local-level integration
and broadening partnerships would be similar to that adopted under the Bahia State Integrated
Project: Rural Poverty (Ln. 7327-BR), approved by the Board in August 2005. All investment
resources secured from these and other programs would be prioritized, debated and decided upon
using the existing community associations and participatory Municipal Councils. In the
aggregate, these integration efforts are expected to leverage about US$7 for each US$1 of
Additional Financing.

11. Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancing

Oririinal Project Design: The original loan (Ln. 4626-BR), in the amount of US$37.5 million,
became effective on January 29, 2002. Objectives under the Original Project are four-fold: (1)
improving well-being and incomes of the rural poor through greater access to basic social and
economic infrastructure and services and support for productive activities, using proven
community-driven development (CDD) techniques; (2) increasing the social capital of rural
communities and capacity to organize collectively to meet their own needs; (3) enhancing local
governance by greater citizen participation and transparency in decision-making, through
creation and strengthening of community associations and municipal councils; and (4) fostering
closer integration of development policies, programs and projects inrural areas at the local level,
by assisting the project's participatory municipal councils to extend their role in seeking funding
from, setting priorities for and making decisions concerning the allocation of resources from
other programs beyondthe Bank-supported project.

 As under the original project, the Additional Financing will support the following three
 components:

 (1) Community Subprojects will provide matchinggrants to community associations to finance
 their implementationof about 1,300 small-scale socio-economic infrastructure, education, health,
 culture, productive, environmental and other investments;

 (2) InstitutionalDevelopment will support (a) technical assistance and training to mobilize and
 strengthen community associations in their role of identifying, preparing, operating and
 maintaining subproject investments and (b) training for the project municipal councils and
 technical advise for State Technical Unit for their expanding roles under the Additional
 Financing; and

 (3) Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation will support, inter alia,
 the costs (excluding salaries) of State Technical Unit (STU), the monitoring of project
 implementation and subsequent impact evaluation.

 Supervision ratings for the Ongoing Project have consistently been fully satisfactory, both for
Development Objectives and Implementation Progress. As of the latest supervision mission
 (September 2005), the Ongoing Project had reached 370,000 people through 1,400 community
subprojects. The 2004 Brazil Country Assistance Evaluation by IEG gave the Northeast Rural
Poverty Reduction Program (RPRP) - of which the project in Cear6 forms part - a positive
overall assessment for its role in expanding provision of basic socioeconomic infrastructure to
the Northeast's rural poor and its use of project-financed municipal councils to strengthen social
capital, thereby laying the foundation for a wider range of poverty reduction activities. The
RPRPwas also presented at the 2004 Shanghai Conference as a best practice experience inrural
poverty reduction.'

Reasons for the Additional Financing: As with other operations under the RPRP, the Federal
Government approved borrowing by the State of CearA and also indicated that it would be
willing to support subsequent scaling up, provided project performance was satisfactory. CearSl
initially borrowed US$37.5 million from the Bank for the Ongoing Project. Recent supervision
confirms satisfactory project performance. Since Project Effectiveness, the pace of
implementationhas accelerated significantly such that all community investment funds under the
original project are now fully disbursed. The State of CearSltherefore wishes to proceed with the
scaling up in the full amount of US$37.5 million authorized by the Federal Government. The
Federal Government i s prepared to guarantee the Additional Financing up to this full US$37.5
million amount. Additional Financing in the full amount i s the most effective way to respond to
the immediate opportunity to enhance development impact represented first, by the over 1,000
proposed community investments already evaluated by the State Technical Unit (STU) and
awaiting the availability of this funding for implementation, and second, by expected additional,
strong community demand for investments inthe next three years.

As to strategic fit, the proposed Additional Financing would continue the Bank's ongoing
assistance to Cear6, contributing directly to the achievement of the State's Multi-Year


 The RPRPis a CDD program consisting of a set of individual state-level loans (either under supervision or in
processing) totaling US$414m. to all NE states. Theseprojects share similar characteristics interms of design,
participatory mechanismsand implementation arrangements.

                                                                                                               2

  Investment Program (PPA) 2004-07, which calls for increasing support for demand-driven
  investments to improve rural incomes and contribute to raising the State's Index of Social
  Development (IDS).      The PPA anticipates the continuation of Bank support to the Ongoing
  Project. The State Government has also been working with the Bank under the Ongoing Project
  to use the participatory municipal councils to strengthen coordination and effectiveness of other
  programs in the rural space, and this i s expected to continue under the scaling up. Therefore,
  scaling up would involve not only the Additional Financing from the Bank but will also impact
  the resources mobilized from other Federal and State programs, thus increasing the overall
  impact in the rural Northeast. Frequent dialogue between the Bank and the State of CearA
  confirms the strong ownership and priority given to the continuation of the project and its
  consistency with the State PPA.

  As the State of CearA, the participatory municipal councils and community associations have
  gained experience with the project strategy and its methodology, the pace of execution has
  accelerated steadily, resulting in the large number of community subprojects in the STU register
  which have already been evaluated and for which resources are needed. The State of CearB,
  therefore, has requested the Bank to proceed as expeditiously as possible in processing its
  support for the scaling up, and the Additional Financing instrument i s ideally suited to this
 purpose. With the volume of demand already substantiated, and the proven implementation
 capacity of the State Technical Unit and its record of timely provision of counterpart financing,
 no difficulty i s anticipated in the full utilization of the Additional Financing within three years.
 The current closing date for the Ongoing Project i s June 30, 2006, and the closing date for the
 Additional Financing would be June 30,2009.

 Implementation Arrangements for the Additional Financing: All implementation arrangements
 will continue to be the same as under the Original Project, which has consistently been rated
 satisfactory on both Development Objective and Implementation Progress. Overall project
 management will continue to be the responsibility of the Special Projects Unit of the State
 Secretariat for Local and Regional Development (COPEBDLR), the STU for the Project. The
 Project would continue to be implemented according to procedures defined in its Operational
 Manual.     Community associations, as under the Ongoing Project, will identify, prepare,
 implement, supervise, operate and maintain their subproject investments, assisted both by
 technical specialists (whom they contract directly) andby technical assistance and training (made
 available by the project municipal councils and the STU). As the key organization for targeting
 of benefits and allocating project resources, the municipal councils provides a critical link to
local government and have the potential to engage in other non-project activities, as has been the
case under the ongoing project. The fiduciary tasks of procurement and financial management
are also detailed in the Operational Manual, are already satisfactory to the Bank and would
remain unchanged under the proposed Additional Financing. Audit reports and reviews during
supervision missions to the State of CearBconfirm the effectiveness of these arrangements.

Consistencv with the CAS: The 2004 Brazil Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) by IEG gave
the RPRP a positive overall assessment, particularly for its role in expanding provision of basic
socioeconomic infrastructure to the Northeast's rural poor and its use of project-financed
municipal councils to strengthen social capital, thereby laying the foundation for a wider range
of poverty reduction activities. The FY04-07 Brazil Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) indicates
that successive projects under the RPRP, in addition to providing access to basic socioeconomic
infrastructure to the rural poor, would support income-generating activities, and will seek to


                                                                                                   3

 ensure close integration of government rural development initiatives in the participating
 municipalities. Using the State's development strategy as the framework, impact would be
 scaled up significantly by integrating and building synergies with other Federal and State
 programs, as well as other Bank lending. The proposed Additional Financing is fully consistent
 with the CAS guidance.

 111.    Appraisal of Scaled-upProjectActivities

         A. Economicand FinancialAnalyses

 Several aspects of project design under the Ongoing Project and maintained under this
 Additional Financing help to ensure that subproject investments represent the least-cost, best
 alternative. First, the demand-driven nature of subproject selection helps to ensure that scarce
 resources flow where they are most needed and chosen subprojects are the best alternatives for
 local communities. Second, the use of standard technical designs (projetos padrb) and cost
 parameters for the most common types of subprojects ensures that community associations
employ least-cost models for subproject implementation and decreases associated search and
information costs. Third, the delegation of subproject implementation directly to the community
associations has proven to generate cost savings, when compared to similar quality works
implemented by public sector agencies. The contracting procedures in the Project Operational
Manual allow direct contracting by community associations, requiring, for example, that they
solicit three bids for the subproject.

Ex-post internal rates of return have been estimated for the most common types of productive
subprojects already implemented. These exceeded, on average, 30 percent. Analyses were made
assuming constant benefits over the subproject life cycle. In addition to these positive impacts,
benefits are largely concentrated in the subprojects' beneficiary communities.          Sensitivity
analysis showed that these subprojects tend to be reasonably robust vis-&vis decreases in output
and prices and increases inproduction costs.

Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main productive subprojects analyzed.
Analysis of these subprojects also suggests that investments are generally financially sustainable.
Although beneficiary associations do receive a one-time matching grant, the investments tend to
be sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by the average community association i s
normally adequate to cover both operation and maintenance (O&M) and replacement of original
investments before the end of their useful economic life.

        B. TechnicalAnalysis

The technical viability of the proposed project has been demonstrated by over a decade of
successful CDD activity in CearB. Investment cost estimates, physical contingencies, prices and
estimates of inputs and outputs are basedon actual historical data under the earlier CDD projects
in CearB and thus are considered reliable. Technical standards of specific subprojects will be
ensured through standardized designs (including engineering aspects, technical, financial and
economic feasibility, O&M, simple environmental guidelines and cost parameters) that cover
approximately 80 percent of subproject types normally demanded by the communities. Field
evidence demonstrates that these simple, practical standards have enhanced subproject quality,
sustainability and cost-effectiveness. All subprojects will be screened by qualified STU staff,
primarily in the eleven field offices throughout the project area. Community associations can

                                                                                                 4

 contract technical assistance (up to 8 percent of total subproject value) to assist in subproject
 design and implementation. Training programs are also being offered to develop the capacity of
 the community associations to prepare, implement, operate and maintain subprojects, as well as
 acquaint them with existing environmental regulations at the state and federal level.

         C. Fiduciary Analysis

 The financial management system to be used under the proposed Additional Financing i s the
 same as that used under the Ongoing Project in CearB. It complies with OPBP 10.02 and the
 new Guidelines for Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements. The Guidelines of
 Fiduciary Management for Community-Driven Development Projects (CDD Guidelines) are also
 taken into consideration, where applicable. Based on satisfactory results and improvements
 introduced during the implementation of the Original Project, the financial management system
 and other arrangements for the Original Project are considered satisfactory. They satisfy the
 Bank's financial management requirements and the Borrower has the installed capacity to
 disburse through conventional SOE procedures or through report based methodology (FMR), if
 the Project decides to use this methodology inthe future.

 Procurement responsibilities will be carried out by STU staff, which have performed
 successfully these functions under the Ongoing Project and are well-versed inBank procurement
policies and procedures. As under the Ongoing Project, with the exception of some technical
assistance procured by the STU for the community associations and municipal councils, it i s
anticipated that most procurement undertaken with the Additional Financing would be carried
out by the beneficiary community associations, following CDD guidelines. The beneficiaries
have already demonstrated satisfactory administrative capacity in preparing the subproject
proposals; this would continue to be evaluated by the STU at the time of their submission. The
STU would also exercise overall quality control of procurement financed by the community
subprojects.    Staff at the STU will be retained for the implementation of the Additional
Financing so as to assure continuity of this goodperformance.

        D. Safeguards

Environment (OP 4.01): The Ongoing Project i s a Category B; the same rating will apply to the
activities supported by the Additional Financing. Neither the State, nor the Bank, through the
project, will approve subprojects which cause degradation to essential natural habitats. Despite
the small scale of individual investments, the STU requires that these subprojects comply with
Federal and State environmental laws. As under the Ongoing Project, no subproject agreement
will be signed or funds transferred until the environmental viability of the subproject i s
determined. The subproject agreements eventually signed between the STU and community
associations will contain environmental compliance clauses.

The Ongoing Project operates under an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which sets out
the legal, institutional and operational context, as well as the requirements and procedures for
ensuring that environmental issues are addressed throughout project implementation. These
procedures are already detailed in the Project Operational Manual and have been applied
systematically and routinely under the Ongoing Project, with satisfactory results, with the
addition of new developments drawn from lessons learned and activities required under more
recent environmental legislation in the State of CearB. The Project Operational Manual also


                                                                                               5

 details the procedures for addressing Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04), Pest Management (OP
 4.09) andCulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11).

 Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10): In Ceari, there are four officially recognized ethnic groups:
 Jenipapo-KanindC, Pitaguari, Tapeba e TremembC. A series of unofficial ethnicities are also
 cited: Tabajara, Kalabassa, Potiguara, Potiguara de Paupina, KanindC de Aratuba e CanindC,
 Payacu, AnacC, Juch, Kariri, Tupinambh, TremembC de Queimadas, TremembC de S5o Jos6 e
 Buritie Gaviiio. Officially recognized indigenous populations reside in 47 communities across
 six municipalities, with nearly 60% concentrated in one municipality (Caucaia).        Unofficial
 indigenous populations are registered in an additional eleven municipalities which are among the
bottomhalf of municipalities interms of IDS.

An Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF) has been developed under the Ongoing
Project and has worked well to promote the social inclusion of indigenous communities while
respecting their cultural identities. The Project, with the Additional Financing, will expand its
 assistance to indigenous communities through coordinated actions with other governmental and
non-governmental agencies also working inthe project area.

IV.ExpectedOutcomes

The proposed Additional Financing will benefit some 340,000 rural poor people in CearA
through the implementation of approximately 1,300 small-scale basic socio-economic
infrastructure and productive subprojects. The outcome indicators will be similar to those of the
Original Project and tracking will be done of (i)   the number of rural poor families benefited,
through the number of subprojects financed and completed; (ii)    improved living conditions and
household incomes, using survey-based and other data sources; (iii)  non-project funds which are
leveraged through the community associations and project-financedmunicipal councils, drawing
on Management Information System (MIS) data; and (iv) changes in accumulated social capital
of the community associations and Municipal Councils, as measured by the Community
ParticipationIndex (CPI).

V. Benefitsand Risks

There are strong indications of positive changes inthe quality of life for those households which
have benefited under the Northeast Program generally and, specifically, for the proposed
Additional Financing in CearA. From a sample across 130 municipalities in three Northeastern
states (including CearA), an assessment was conducted of changes in living conditions among
Program beneficiaries from 2000 to 2003. More than 80% of these households indicated that
their quality of life had improved as a result of the subproject investment, particularly in the
areas of family health, physical living conditions (e.g., housing, sanitation, and durable goods)
and nutrition. Mean household incomes also increased. Overall, some 45% of beneficiary
families had access to safe water and more than 70% had obtained electricity.           Electrical
appliance use increased by about 30%, while a majority of households also reported increased
housing values. Greater access to safe water led to improved water quality (reported by 55% of
respondents), reduced sickness causedby havingto searchfor water and greater physical comfort
(73% of respondents) andreduced incidence of water-borne disease (50% of respondents). Some
20% of respondents further reported increased agricultural production as a result of subprojects
which financed small dams intheir communities.


                                                                                                6

The scaling up that would be supported under the Additional Financingposes no additional risks,
other than those which were identified for the Ongoing Project and for which mitigation
measureshave been successfully taken duringthe course of its implementation.

VI. FinancialTerms and Conditions for the Additional Financing

The State of Cearsi has selected a fixed-spread loan (FSL) in U.S. Dollars, with a commitment-
based amortization consisting of level repayments of principal, five years of grace period, and
seventeen years of total loan term. The State has also opted for the possibility of currency and
interest rate conversions and establishment of interest rate caps and collars, automatic conversion
of the Loan variable interest rate into a fixed interest rate, and the capitalization of the front-end
fee under the additional financing. The selection reflects the State's preference for contracting
loans which permit the matchingof its asset and liability management objectives.

VII.    Allocation of LoanProceeds

            Expenditure Category                   Project     Financing Allocation of Loan
                                                    Cost in Percentage Proceeds (US$M)
                                                    US$M
1. Grants for Community Subproiects
   (a) Area 1Grants                                     17.36         75%                    13.02
   (b) Area 2 Grants                                    11.57         75%                     8.67
   (c) Area 3 Grants                                    12.40         75%                     9.30
2. Consultants' services and trainingfor Parts
B, C andDof the Project                                  4.24        100%                     4.24
3. Administrative Costs
   (a) incremental operational costs                      1.35       20%                      0.27
   (b) project supervision andmonitoringcosts            0.81        50%                    0.405
4.                                                   0.09375                              0.09375
5.Unallocated                                        2.17625                              1.50125
                                           Total       50.00                                37.50




                                                                                                    7


