                                           Document of
                                       The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 36340




                                       PROJECTPAPER

                                              ONA

                     PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING(LOAN)

                                    INTHEAMOUNT OF
                                       US22.5 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                       STATE OF PIAUf

                             WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
                           FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                           FORTHE

                    PIAUf RURAL POVERTY REDUCTIONPROJECT




                                         June 16,2006



Environmentallyand Socially SustainableDevelopment Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bankauthorization.

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (ExchangeRateEffective November 30,2005)
             CurrencyUnit = Real (R$)
                    R$1.00 = US$0.4533
                   US$l.OO =        R$2.2062

                      FISCALYEAR
                 January 1     - December31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS         CountryAssistance Strategy
CDD     --  Community-DrivenDevelopment
EMP         EnvironmentalManagementPlan
HDI     -   HumanDevelopmentIndex
IEG     -   IndependentEvaluationGroup
MIS     -   ManagementInformation System
O & M       OperationandMaintenance
PPA     -   StateMulti-year InvestmentProgram
RPRP    -   RuralPovertyReductionProgram
SEPLAN      Secretaria Estadual de Planejamento
            (State Secretariat of Planning)
STU         State TechnicalUnit




             Vice President:      Pamela Cox
           Country Director:      John Briscoe
            Sector Director:      Laura Tuck
          Task Team Leader:       Jorge A. Muiioz

                                           BRAZIL
              PIAU~ RURAL POVERTYREDUCTION PROJECT
                             ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                             Page
I Introduction...............................................................................
 .                                                                                             1

I1. Backgroundand Rationale for Additional Financing...............................            1

I11.Appraisal of Scaled-up Project Activities............................................      4


      b. .TechnicalAnalysis................................................................
      a. Economic and Financial Analyses..............................................          4
                                                                                                5
      c                                                                                        5
      d Safeguards
       ..Fiduciary Analysis   ................................................................
                    ..........................................................................  5

IV. Expected Outcomes   .....................................................................  6

V.  Benefits and Risks.......................................................................  6

VI. FinancialTerms and Conditions for the Additional Financing....................             7
VI1 Allocation of LoanProceeds...........................................................
   .                                                                                           7


                               PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET

Date: June 23, 2006                              Team Leader: Jorge A. Muiioz
                                                 Sector Director: Laura Tuck
                                                 Country Director: John Briscoe




Responsible agency: State Secretariat of Planning
         - - - -
t




FY                       2007 I         2008 I          2009 I




Does the restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions from
Bank policies?                                                              [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                [ ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                [ ]Yes [XINO


The proposed Additional Financingwould support the scaling-up of the RuralPoverty
Reduction Project in Piaui to (1) improve well-being and incomes of the rural poor
through greater access to basic social and economic infrastructure and services and
support for productive activities, usingprovencommunity-driven development (CDD)
techniques; (2) increase social capital of rural communities and capacity to organize
:ollectively to meet their own needs; (3) enhance local governance by greater citizen
?artkipation and transparency indecision-making, through creation and strengtheningof
:ommunity associations and Municipal Councils; and (4) foster closer integrationof
ievelopmentpolicies, programs and projects inrural areas at the local levelby assisting
:he project's participatory Municipal Councils to extend their role inseeking funding
kom, settingpriorities for and makingdecisions concerning, the allocationof resources
from other programs outside the Bank-supported project.

loes the scaled-upqroject trigger any new safeguarxicies? N o
                                            -
                                 For Additional Financing
.X]Loan      [ ] Credit  [ ] Grant
;or Loans:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.):      22.50
        Proposed terms: Fixed SpreadLoan (FSL)
                                  FinancingPlan KJS$m.)
                   Source                             Local       Foreign           Total
3orrower                                      II        4.00  II      0.50 II        4.50
BRD                                                    20.14          2.36           22.50
Zommunity Associations                                  3.OO          0.00           3.OO
rota1                                                  27.14          2.86          30.00


I. Introduction

This Project Paper seeks the approval of the ExecutiveDirectors to provide an additional loan in
the amount of US$22.5 million to the State of Piaui, with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil, for the PiauiRuralPoverty ReductionProject (Ln.4624-BR).

The proposed additional loan would help finance the costs associated with the scaling up
activities to enhance the impact of this Project, which has performedwell. No major changes are
proposed to the Ongoing Project. The Additional Financing would continue to support basic
small-scale socio-economic infrastructure investments for the rural poor and foster the closer
integration of rural development policies, programs and projects at the local level, by
mainstreaming the capacity of the existing project-financed Municipal Councils to seek funding
from, set priorities for and make decisions concerning the allocation of resources from other
State and Federalprograms outside the Bank-supported project.

Partnership arrangements: While the proposed Additional Financing does not envisage specific
partnership arrangements with other internationalfinancing agencies, it i s designed to forge even
stronger linkages between the project and a series of State and Federal programs and projects
also operating in the rural space in Piaui. Such partnerships under the Original Project have
included the Bank-supported Land-Based Poverty Reduction Project (Ln 7037-BR, known
locally as Crkdito Fundihirio) and a number of Federal and State-funded programs, among them
the programs conducted through the Caixa EconSrnica for housing and the National Sanitation
Fund (FUNASA).           The approach to enhancing local-level integration and broadening
partnerships would be similar to that adopted under the Bahia State Integrated Project: Rural
Poverty (Ln. 7327-BR), approved by the Board in August 2005, and the CearA Rural Poverty
Reduction Project - Additional Financing (Loan 4626-BR), approved by the Board on June 6,
2006. All investment resources secured from these and other programs would be prioritized,
debated and decided upon using the existing community associations and participatory
Municipal Councils. In the aggregate, these integration efforts are expected to leverage about
US$7 for each US$1 of Additional Financing.

11.      Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancing

Original Proiect Design: The original Loan in the amount of US$22.5 million became effective
    -
on April 22, 2002. The Original Project objectives were to: (1) improve wellbeing and incomes
of the rural poor through better access to basic social and economic infrastructure and services
and support for productive activities using proven community-driven development (CDD)
techniques; (2) increase social capital of rural communities to organize collectively to meet their
own needs; (3) enhance local governance by greater citizen participation and transparency in
decision-making through creation and strengthening of community associations and Municipal
Councils; and (4) foster closer integration of development policies, programs and projects in
rural areas at the local level by assisting the project's participatoryMunicipal Councils to extend
their role in seeking funding from, setting priorities for and making decisions concerning the
allocation of resources from other programs outside the Bank-supported project.

As under the original project, the Additional Financing will support the following three
components:

 (1) Community Subprojects will provide matchinggrants to community associations to finance
their implementationof about 1,200 small-scale socio-economic infrastructure, education, health,
culture, productive, environmental and other investments;

 (2) InstitutionalDevelopment will support (a) technical assistance and training to mobilize and
 strengthen community associations in their role of identifying, preparing, operating and
maintaining, subproject investments and (b) training for the project Municipal Councils and
technical advice for the State Technical Unit for their expanding roles under the Additional
Financing; and

(3) Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation will support, inter alia,
the costs (excluding salaries) of the State Technical Unit (STU), the monitoring of project
implementationand subsequent impact evaluation.

Supervision ratings for the Ongoing Project have consistently been fully satisfactory, both for
Development Objectives and ImplementationProgress. Latest data show that the Piaui project
has reached some 224,000 people with well over 1,000 subproject investments in basic socio-
economic and productive infrastructure. The 2004 Brazil Country Assistance Evaluation by IEG
gave the Northeast Rural Poverty Reduction Program (RPRP) - of which the project in Piaui
forms part - a positive overall assessment for its role in expanding provision of basic
socioeconomic infrastructure to the Northeast's rural poor and its use of project-financed
Municipal Councils to strengthen social capital, thereby laying the foundation for a wider range
of poverty reduction activities. The RPRP was also presented at the 2004 Shanghai Conference
as abest practice experience inrural poverty reduction.'

Reasons for Additional Financing: Consistent with other operations under the RPRP, the Federal
Government approved the borrowing by the State of Piaui and also indicated its willingness to
support subsequent scaling up, provided project performance was satisfactory. Initially, Piaui
borrowed US$22.5 million from the Bank for the Ongoing Project. Recent Bank supervision
confirms satisfactory project performance. Specifically, project implementation accelerated
significantly since the Mid-term Review in 2004 and all community investment funds under the
project (both State counterpart financing and Bank loan proceeds) are fully committed. The
State of CearA therefore wishes to proceed with the scaling up in the full amount of US$22.5
million authorized by the Federal Government.                   The Federal Government i s prepared to
guarantee the Additional Financing up to this full US$22.5 million amount.                               Additional
Financinginthe full amount i s the most effective way to respond to the immediate opportunity to
enhance development impact represented first, by the approximately 1,900 proposed community
investments already evaluated by the State Technical Unit (STU) and awaiting the availability of
this funding for implementation, and second, by expected, additional strong community demand
for investments inthe next three years.




 The RPRP is a CDD program consisting of a set of individual state-level loans (either under supervision or in
processing) totaling US$414 m. to all Northeast states. These projects share similar characteristics interms of
design, participatory mechanisms and implementation arrangements.


                                                                                                                 2

 Instrategic terms, the Additional Financingwould continue the Bank's ongoing assistanceto the
 State of Piaui for basic socio-economic investments in exceptionally poor rural areas,
 contributing directly to the achievement of the State's Multi-Year Investment Program (PPA,
 2004-2007) and improving its Human Development Index (HDI). The PPA explicitly assumes
 the continuation of Bank support under the additional financing. Under the Ongoing Project, the
 State has exceeded all key physical targets and successfully leveraged additional counterpart
 -fundinga series of public agencies andprograms. This process is havingthe addedbenefitof
          and access for poor rural communities - through their representative Municipal Councils
    from
 strengthening the coordinationand effectiveness of those programs through their exposure to the
 Councils' participatory mechanisms for priority-setting, decision-making and targeting. Scaling
 up means therefore, not only the Additional Financing from the Bank, but also mobilizing
 additional resources from other State and Federal programs to increase overall poverty impact in
 the rural Northeast, and scaling up the use of the CDD mechanisms themselves by applying them
 to community investments outside the Project.

 As the State of Piaui, the participatory Municipal Councils and community associations gained
 experience with the project strategy and methodology, the pace of project execution accelerated
 markedly and, as mentioned, there i s a large number of subproject proposals registered with the
 State Technical Unit (STU) and awaiting resources. The State Government has asked the Bank
to proceed as expeditiously as possible in processing lending under the scaling up and the
Additional Financing instrument i s well-suited for this purpose. With the volume of subproject
demand formally established, the experience and capacity of the STU and the State
Government's track record on timely and adequate counterpart funding, we anticipate no
difficulties for the State in fully utilizing the Additional Financing within three years. The
closing date for the Ongoing Project i s June 30, 2006 and the closing date for the Additional
Financing would be June 30,2009.

As stated earlier, the Project is achieving its Development Objectives, and meeting or exceeding
all principal physical targets established at appraisal. The State i s in compliance with all key
loan covenants. Regular communications between the Bank's supervision team and the State
Government and the STU confirm the State's strong sense of ownershipof this project,its
priority, and its consistency with and importance to, helping the State achieve its PPA.

Implementation Arrangements for the Additional Financing: All implementation arrangements
will continue to be the same as under the Original Project, which has consistently been rated
satisfactory on both Development Objective and Implementation Progress. The Project will
continue to be managed by the STU under the Piaui State Secretariat of Planning.               The
Operational Manual defined for the ongoing project will continue to govern project operations
under the Additional Financing. Community associations will identify, prepare, implement,
supervise, operate and maintain their investments, as they have done under the Ongoing Project,
contracting directly the needed technical assistance from the market, and accessing project-
financed training and assistance from the STU and through their Municipal Councils. As the
core project instrument for targeting project benefits and allocating project resources, the project
Municipal Councils will continue to be the critical link to local (municipal) governments and will
continue to develop capacity to play an important role in local planning and priority-setting, and
inleveraging the benefits from other, non-project poverty programs, for poor communities. The
fiduciary requirements and tasks associated with procurement and financial management are
detailed in the project Operational Manual and are satisfactory to the Bank. Audit reports and

reviews during supervision missions to the State of Piaui confirm the effectiveness of these
arrangements and they will therefore continue under the Additional Financing.

Consistency with the CAS: The 2004 Brazil Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) by IEG gave
the RPRP a positive overall assessment, particularly for its role in expanding provision of basic
socioeconomic infrastructure to the Northeast's rural poor and its use of project-financed
Municipal Councils to strengthen social capital, thereby laying the foundation for a wider range
of poverty reduction activities.    The FY04-07 Brazil Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
indicates that successive projects under the Northeast Rural Poverty program, in addition to
continuing to finance basic small-scale socioeconomic infrastructure in the rural space, would
support income-generating activities, and will seek to ensure close integration of government
rural development initiatives in the participating municipalities. The proposed Additional
Financing i s consistent with the CAS guidance. Using the State's development strategy as the
client-driven framework, impact would be scaled up significantly through these integration
activities, and by building synergies with other Federal and State programs, and with other Bank
operations.

111.Appraisal of Scaled-upProjectActivities

A. Economic and FinancialAnalyses
Important aspects of project design under the Ongoing Project, to be maintained under the
Additional Financing, help ensure that subproject investments represent the lowest-cost, best
alternative: (a) the demand-driven nature of subproject selection helps ensure that scarce
resources flow where they are most needed and that selected subprojects are the best alternatives
for the communities in question; (b) the now-established use of standard technical designs
(projetos padrzo) and cost parameters for the most common types of subprojects demanded
ensures that community associations implement the least-cost subproject models while
decreasing associated search and information costs; (c) delegation of subproject implementation
directly to the community associations has been proven to generate very significant cost savings
when compared to similar works executed by public sector agencies. Contracting procedures in
the Project Operational Manual provide that the associations carry out the procurement of goods,
works and services for the subprojects on the basis of requests for proposals from at least three
bidders.

Ex-post internal rates of return have been estimated for the most common types of productive
subprojects which have been implemented. These exceeded on average, 30 percent. Analyses
assumed constant benefits over the subproject life cycle. In addition to these positive impacts,
benefits tend to be largely concentrated in the beneficiary communities. Sensitivity analysis
showed that these subprojects are reasonably robust in relation to decreases in output and prices
and increasesinproduction costs.

Benefit-cost ratios are high(greater than 2.0) for the main types of productive investments
analyzed. Analysis of these subprojects also suggests that investments are generally financially
sustainable. Although beneficiary associations do receive a one-time matching grant, the
investments tend to be sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by the average
community association i s normally adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of the original
investmentsbefore the end of their usefuleconomic life.



                                                                                                4

 B. TechnicalAnalysis

 Technical viability of the proposed project has been demonstrated over a decade of successful
 CDD activity inPiaui. Investment cost estimates, physical contingencies, prices and estimates of
 inputs and outputs are based on actual historical data under the earlier projects in this State and
 thus considered reliable. Technical standards of specific subprojects will be ensured through
 standardized designs (including engineering aspects, technical, financial and economic
feasibility, O&M, simple environmental guidelines and cost parameters) covering about 80
percent of subproject types normally demanded by the communities.                   Field evidence
demonstrates that these simple, practical standards have enhanced subproject quality,
 sustainability and cost-effectiveness. All'subprojects will be screenedby qualified STU staff, not
only at STU headquarters but in five regional offices in process of being established to
decentralize the project and bring it closer to its clients, the communities.          Community
associations can contract technical assistance (up to 8 percent of subproject value) to assist in
 subproject design and implementation. Training programs are also being offered to develop
associations' capacity to prepare, implement, operate and maintain subprojects, as well as
acquaint them with existing environmental regulations at the State and Federal level.

C. Fiduciary Analysis

The financial management system to be used under the proposed Additional Financing i s the
same as that usedunder the Ongoing Project inPiaui. It complies with OP/BP 10.02 and the new
Guidelines for Assessment of FinancialManagement Arrangements. The Guidelines of Fiduciary
Management for Community-Driven Development Projects (CDD Guidelines) are also taken
into consideration, where applicable. Based on satisfactory results and improvements introduced
during the implementation of the Original Project, tbe financial management system and other
arrangements for the Original Project are considered satisfactory.       They satisfy the Bank's
financial management requirements and the State has the installed capacity to disburse through
conventional SOE procedures or through report-based methodology (FMR), if the State decides
to use this methodology inthe future.

Procurement responsibilities will be carried out by the STU procurement staff, which have
successfully performed these functions under the Ongoing Project and are well-versed in Bank
procurement policies and procedures. As under the Ongoing Project, with the exception of some
technical assistance procured by the STU for the community associations and Municipal
Councils, it i s anticipated that most procurement undertaken with the Additional Financing
would be carried out by the beneficiary community associations, following CDD guidelines. The
beneficiaries have already demonstrated satisfactory administrative capacity in preparing the
subproject proposals; this would continue to be evaluated by the STU at the time of their
submission. The STU would also exercise overall quality control of procurement undertaken
under the community subprojects. Staff at the STU will be retained for the implementation of
the Additional Financing so as to assure continuity of this good performance.

D.Safeguards

Environment (OP 4.01): The Ongoing Project i s a Category B; the same rating will apply to the
activities supported by the Additional Financing. Neither the State, nor the Bank will approve
subprojects which cause degradation to essential natural habitats. Despite the small scale of


                                                                                                  5

 individual investments, the STU requires that these subprojects comply with Federal and State
 environmental laws. As under the Ongoing Project, no subproject agreement will be signed or
 funds transferred until the environmental viability of the subproject is determined. The
 subproject agreements eventually signed between the STU and community associations will
 contain environmental compliance clauses.

An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is being carried out under the Ongoing Project and
 describes the legal, institutional and operational context, as well as the requirements and
procedures for ensuring that environmental issues are addressed throughout project
implementation. These represent a continuation of procedures already defined in the Project
 Operational Manual and applied systematically and routinely under the Ongoing Project, with
 satisfactory results, and with the addition of new developments drawn from lessons learned and
activities required under more recent environmental legislation in the State of Piaui. The Project
Operational Manual details the procedures for addressing Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04), Pest
Management (OP 4.09) and Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11).

IV.     ExpectedOutcomes

The proposed Additional Financing will benefit some 180,000 rural poor people inPiaui through
the implementation of approximately 1,200 small-scale basic socio-economic infrastructure and
productive subprojects. The outcome indicators will be similar to those of the Original Project
and tracking will be done of (i)  the number of rural poor families benefited, through the number
of subprojects financed and completed; (ii)   improved living conditions and household incomes,
using survey-based and other data sources; (iii)  non-project funds which are leveraged through
the community associations and project-financedMunicipal Councils, drawing on Management
Information System (MIS) data; and (iv) changes in accumulated social capital of the community
associations and Municipal Councils, as measured by the Community Participation Index (CPI).

V.      Benefitsand Risks

There are strong indications of positive changes in the quality of life for those households which
have benefited under the Northeast Program generally and, specifically, for the proposed
Additional Financing in Piaui. From a sample across 130 municipalities in three Northeastern
states, an assessment was conducted of changes in living conditions among Program
beneficiaries from 2000 to 2003. More than 80% of these households indicated that their quality
of life had improved as a result of the subproject investment, particularly in the areas of family
health, physical living conditions (e.g., housing, sanitation, and durable goods) and nutrition.
Mean household incomes also increased. Overall, some 45% of beneficiary families had access
to safe water and more than 70% had obtained electricity. Electrical appliance use increased by
about 30%, while a majority of households also reported increased housing values. Greater
access to safe water led to improved water quality (reported by 55% of respondents), reduced
sickness caused by having to search for water and greater physical comfort (73% o f respondents)
and reduced incidence of water-borne disease (50% of respondents). Some 20% of respondents
further reported increased agriculturalproduction as a result of subprojects which financed small
dams intheir communities (see FECAMP2004 and Khan 2002 for greater detail).




                                                                                                 6

The scaling up that would be supported under the Additional Financingposes no additional risks
anticipated, other than those which were identified for the ongoing project and for which
mitigation measureshave been successfully taken during the course of its implementation.

VI.     FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing

The State of Piaui has selected a fixed spread Loan (FSL) in US Dollars with a commitment-
based amortization consisting of level repayments of principal, five years of grace period, and
seventeen years of total Loan term. The State has also opted for the possibility of currency and
interest rate conversions and establishment of interest rate caps and collars, and the capitalization
of the front-end fee under the Additional Financing. The selection reflects the State's preference
for contracting loans which permit the matchingof its asset and liability management objectives.

VII.    Allocationof LoanProceeds

            ExpenditureCategory                   Project Financing Allocation of Loan
                                                  Cost in Percentage Proceeds(US$M)

1, Grants for Community Subproiects
   (a) Area 1Grants                                 16.85       75%               12.64
   (b) Area 2 Grants                                7.22        75%                5.42
2. Consultants' services and training for Parts
B, C andDof the Project                             3.16        100%               3.16

3. Administrative Costs
   (a) incremental operational costs                0.90        20%                0.18
   (b) project supervision and monitoring costs     0.54        50%                0.27
4. &e                                             0.05625                        0.05625
5.Unallocated                                     1.27375                        0.77375
                                          Total    30.00                          22.50




                                                                                                   7


