Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: 34822 
Project Name 
Cear
á
Rural Poverty Reduction Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P050875 
Borrower(s) 
STATE OF CEARÁ 
Implementing Agency 
COPE/ State Secretariat of Local and Regional Development 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 15, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 19, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The original loan (Ln. 4626-BR), in the amount of US$37.5 million, became effective on January 
29, 2002.  Objectives under the original project are four-fold:  (1) improving well-being and 
incomes of the rural poor through greater access to basic social and economic infrastructure and 
services and support for productive activities, using proven community-driven development 
(CDD) techniques; (2) increasing the social capital of rural communities and capacity to  
organize collectively to meet their own needs; (3) enhancing local governance by greater citizen 
participation and transparency in decision-making, through creation and strengthening of 
community associations and municipal councils; and (4) fostering closer integration of 
development policies, programs and projects in rural areas at the local level, by assisting the 
project’s participatory municipal councils to extend their role in seeking funding from, setting 
priorities for and making decisions concerning the allocation of resources from other programs 
beyond the Bank-supported project. As confirmed through Bank supervision, the ongoing project 
has thus far reached 370,000 people through 1,400 community subprojects.  
The Northeast 
Rural Poverty Reduction Project (RPRP) 
–
of which the ongoing project in Ceará 
forms part – was also presented at the 2004 Shanghai Conference as a best practice 
experience in poverty reduction.
1
Reasons for the proposed additional financing
:
As with other operations under the RPRP, the 
Federal Government approved borrowing by the State of Ceará and also indicated that it would 
be willing to support subsequent scaling up, provided project performance would be satisfactory.  
Ceará initially borrowed US$37.5 million from the Bank for the ongoing project.  Recent 
supervision confirms satisfactory project performance.  In fact, since project effectiveness, the 
pace of implementation has accelerated significantly such that all community investment funds 
1
The RPRP is a CDD program consisting of a set of individual state-level loans (either under supervision or in 
processing) totaling US$414 m. to all NE states.  These projects share similar characteristics in terms of design, 
participatory mechanisms and implementation arrangements.   
Page  2
under the original project are now fully disbursed. A large number of remaining community 
investments have already been analyzed and await the availability of funding for their 
implementation.  As such and in order to match its demonstrated absorptive capacity, the State of 
Ceará has requested that the Bank proceed with the scaling up.  The Federal government is 
prepared to guarantee the additional financing up to the amount of the ongoing loan. Given both 
the existing community investment demand and that expected to occur under the proposed 
scaling up, the State of Ceará wishes to proceed with the full amount possible of US$37.5 
million. 
The proposed Additional Financing
 
would continue the Bank’s ongoing assistance to Ceará, 
contributing directly to the achievement of the State’s Multi-Year Investment Program (PPA) 
2004-07, which calls for increasing support for demand-driven investments to improve rural 
incomes and contribute to raising the State’s Index of Social Development (IDS).  The PPA 
anticipates the continuation of Bank support to the ongoing project.  The State Government has 
also been working with the Bank under the ongoing project to use the participatory municipal 
councils to strengthen coordination and effectiveness of other programs in the rural space, and 
this is expected to continue under the scaling up. Therefore, scaling up would involve not only 
the additional financing from the Bank but also the resources mobilized from other Federal and 
State programs, thus increasing the overall impact in the rural Northeast.    Frequent dialogue 
between the Bank and the State of Ceará confirms the strong ownership and priority given to the 
continuation of the project and its consistency with the State PPA. 
2. Proposed objectives 
 
Consistent with the Original Project, the proposed Additional Financing would support the 
scaling-up of the Rural Poverty Reduction Project in Ceará to (1) improving well-being and 
incomes of the rural poor through greater access to basic social and economic infrastructure and 
services and support for productive activities, using proven community-driven development 
(CDD) techniques; (2) increasing the social capital of rural communities and capacity to  
organize collectively to meet their own needs; (3) enhancing local governance by greater citizen 
participation and transparency in decision-making, through creation and strengthening of 
community associations and municipal councils; and (4) fostering closer integration of 
development policies, programs and projects in rural areas at the local level, by assisting the 
project’s participatory municipal councils to extend their role in seeking funding from, setting 
priorities for and making decisions concerning the allocation of resources from other programs 
beyond the Bank-supported project. 
 
3.  Preliminary description for the additional financing 
 
As under the original project, the proposed Additional Financing will support the following three 
components:   
(1) 
Community Subprojects 
will provide matching grants to community associations to 
finance their implementation of about 1,300 small-scale socio-economic infrastructure, 
education, health, culture, productive, environmental and other investments; 
Page  3
(2)
 Institutional Development
 will support technical assistance and training to mobilize 
and strengthen community associations in their role of identifying, preparing, operating 
and maintaining subproject investments; and  
(3) 
Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
 will support, 
inter alia
,
the costs (excluding salaries) of State Technical Unit (STU), the monitoring of 
project implementation and subsequent impact evaluation.   
The implementation arrangements for the proposed activities under the additional financing will 
be the same as those for the ongoing project.  Overall project management will continue to be the 
responsibility of the Special Projects Unit of the State Secretariat for Local and Regional 
Development (COPE/SDLR), the State Technical Unit (STU) for the project. The project would 
continue to be implemented according to procedures defined in its Operational Manual.   
Community associations, as under the ongoing project, will identify, prepare, implement, 
supervise, operate and maintain their subproject investments, assisted both by technical 
specialists (whom they contract directly) and by technical assistance and training (made available 
by the project Municipal Councils and the STU). As the key organization for targeting of 
benefits and allocating subproject resources, the project municipal councils will provide a critical 
link to local government and have the potential to engage in other non-project activities, as has 
been the case under the ongoing project. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply to the proposed Additional Financing 
The Ongoing Project is already covered by an Environmental Management Plan (under 
OP
/
BP
4.01) and an Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (under 
OP 4.10
).  The procedures for both 
are detailed in the Project Operational Manual and have been applied systematically and 
routinely under the Ongoing Project, with satisfactory results.  The Project Operational Manual 
also details the procedures for addressing Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Pest Management (OP 
4.09) and Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11). 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 7.50 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
37.50 
COMMUNITY ASSOCIATIONS 
5.00 
 Total 
50.00 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Luis O. Coirolo 
Title: Sector Lead Specialist, Rural Development 
Tel: (202) 473-1820 
Fax: (202) 522-3132 
Email: Lcoirolo@worldbank.org 
Location: Recife, Brazil (IBRD)
Page  4
