Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2556-CR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR A
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
May 17, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -         Costa Rican Colon (9)
US$1                -         ¢8.60
¢1                  -         US$0.12
g1,00O                        US$116
¢ million           -         US$116,280
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW                  =              kilowatt
MW                  -              Megawatt - 1,000 kW
kWh                 m              Kilowatt hour
GWh                 -              Gigawatt hour - 1 million kWh
kV                                 kilovolt
kVA                 m              kilovolt - ampere
MVA                 -              Megavolt - ampere - 1,000 kVA
m                    m             meter - 3.28 feet
km                                 kilometer - 0.62 mile
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CABEI              Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM       '       Central American Common Market
CNFL       =       Compania Nacional de Fuerza y Luz
(National Power and Light Company)
CODESA     5       Corporacion Costarricense de Desarrollo
(Costa Rican Development Corporation)
ENALUF     -       Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza
(Nicaragua's National Power Company)
ESPH       =       Empresa de Servicios Publicos de Heredia
(Public Service Company of Heredia)
GDP        -       Gross Domestic Product
GNP        -       Gross National Product
ICE        m       Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad
(Costa Rican Electricity Institute)
IDB        -       Inter-American Development Bank
ICB        =       International Competitive Bidding
JASEMA     -       Junta Administrativa de Servicios Electricos
Municipales de Alajuela (Municipal Electrical
Services Board of Alajuela)
OFIPLAN    =       Government Planning Office
SNE        =       Servicio Nacional de Electricidad
(National Electricity Service)
SNI        X       National Interconnected System
USAID      -       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad (ICE)
Guarantor:                  Republic of Costa Rica
Amount:                     US$34.0 million
Term:                       15 years, including 3 years of grace at interest
of 7.9 percent per annum
Relending Terms:            US$7.4 million equivalent of the Bank loan will be
relent to other Costa Rican electricity distri-
buting entities for subtransmission and distribution
items on the same terms as those of the proposed
Bank loan.
Project Description:        The objectives of the project are to meet part of
the anticipated demand for greater, more reliable
electricity supply throughout Costa Rica by
extending the transmission and distribution network,
and to help define the power investment program
after 1982. It consists of the installation of
transmission lines, substations, subtransmission
and distribution works; extension of the load
dispatching center; engineering studies cf the
Boruca hydroelectric power station; studies of
non-conventional power stations for isolatted
locations; the provision of construction and
laboratory equipment for transmission facilities;
and training. The project faces no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disecsed without World Bank aLthorization|



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local          Foreign          Total
---------- US$ (million) ----------
Transmission                         7.1             10.6             17.7
Distribution
ICE                               1.8             3.4               5.2
Others                            2.4             5.6               8.0
Studies                              1.2             3.9               5.1
Equipment                              -             0.6               0.6
Training                             0.6             0.5               1.1
Total Costs                 13.1             24.6             37.7
Contingencies:  Physical             1.3             2.4               3.7
Price              5.1              5.5             10.6
Subtotal                    19.5             32.5             52.0
Interest during Construction           -             4.2               4.2
Financing Requirements    19.5               36.7             56.2
Financing Plan:
Local           Foreign           Total
----------- US$ (million) ----------
Bank                         -              34.0             34.0
IDB                          -               1.3              1.3
ICE                        19.5              1.4             20.9
Total                    19.5            36.7              56.2
Projected Disbursements:
1980        1981        1982       1983
Annual                  3.5        12.7        11.8        6.0
Cumulative              3.5        16.2        28.0       34.0
Rate of Return:                    11 percent (on 1979-82 investment program)
Appraisal Report:                  Report No. 2433b-CR, dated May 7, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOIMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICII)AD
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR A SIXTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed loan
to Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad (ICE) with the guarantee of the
Republic oiE Costa Rica for the equivalent of US$34.0 million for a sixth
power project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including a grace
period of ithree years, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. An amount of
US$7.4 million equivalent of the Bank loan will be relent to other Costa
Rican electricity distributing entities on the same terms as those of the
proposed Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Costa Rica"'
(No. 1666-CR) was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 11, 1977.
The following paragraphs include more current information obtained by a
recent mission. A mission is planned for May-June to study the prospects
for export diversification.
3.        Costa Rica provides an example among Latin American countries
of how high per capita growth may be achieved without undue concentration of
development benefits in the upper income groups. A high level of investment
and rapid export growth has allowed real output to grow at an average 6.0
percent over the last twenty years, while family planning and rising educational
and income levels contributed to a sharp decline in the population growth rate.
Real output per capita grew at an average 3.0 percent per year during 1960-77
and per capita GNP in 1977 reached US$1,240 (World Bank Atlas). The fast
growth of output facilitated the absorption of the rapidly growing labor
force and the open unemployment rate has remained at relatively low levels
(between 4 and 8 percent in the last 20 years).
4.        The structure of the Costa Rican economy has undergone appreciable
changes in the process of economic development. Industry has gradually
emerged as the most important productive sector in the economy, contri-
buting 27 percent of output in 1977, and absorbing 23 percent of the
employed labor force. Rapid industrial growth was facilitated by the
creation of the Central American Common Market (CACM), which provided a
much enlarged market for the products of the sector. Industrial exports,
including those to the CACM and Panama, have grown from about one tenth
of exports in the early 1960s to about one third currently. Agriculture
continues to play an important role, generating about 20 percent of GDP



- 2 -
and employing some 30 percent of the labor force. Recent agricultural
output growth has been among the highest in Latin America, with the impetus
provided, once again, by export expansion. The rapid growth of meat,
sugar, and industrial exports has reduced the economy's dependence on
coffee and bananas. These latter two exports provided 85 percent of
merchandise export receipts in 1950; during 1975-78 they accounted for
only 53 percent.
5.        Superimposed on this underlying trend of high and sustained growth
have been several cyclical fluctuations in the pace of economic activity.
This follows from two characteristic features: first, the economy is very
open -- in 1976-1978 exports of goods and non-factor services averaged 30
percent, and imports averaged 37 percent of GDP; second, despite the signifi-
cant export diversification that has taken place, the country's exports as
well as its imports are highly concentrated -- two thirds of exports are
presently in agricultural commodities, while over 70 percent of imports are
capital and intermediate goods. This openness and concentration make the
economy very vulnerable to adverse movements in its terms of trade, leading
to periodic and sometimes severe balance of payments difficulties and a
subsequent need for periods of adjustment. Financial strains, moreover, have
been occasionally exacerbated by the Government as it has often initiated
countervailing expansions of expenditure and credit in periods of difficulty.
Rapid increases in exports in the past, however, have usually facilitated
swift recoveries from downturns in economic activity and, in consequence, the
process of development has been sustained.
6.        The Costa Rican economy recently turned the peak of its latest
cycle. In the last three years the economy has registered a strong expansion,
led by rapid increases in the value of the country's two major export
commodities, coffee and bananas, and by high levels of public expenditures.
GDP growth accelerated from 5 percent in 1976 to 8 percent in 1977 before
returning to an estimated 6 percent in 1978. Prices (as measured by the
wholesale price index) increased at an annual rate of 8 percent while
investment and savings recovered remarkably from previously depressed levels;
investment grew at 20 percent per year (in real terms) in 1976-78, while
savings, which had earlier settled at 13 percent of GDP, have averaged
18 percent of GDP in the last three years.
7.        Accompanying this strong performance were features which cause
concern. Concomitant with the rapid increase in exports, which in US dollar
terms in 1978 were 65 percent higher than in 1975, has been a very rapid
growth of imports, which, in the same period, expanded by 70 percent. In
consequence the current account deficit widened considerably and reached
12 percent of GDP in 1978.  Net foreign reserve levels fell somewhat in 1978,
to about the equivalent of 1-1/2 months' imports. An important source of
excess demand pressures in the economy in 1978 was a high level of government
spending with some expenditures being accelerated in an election year. The
Central Government's overall deficit increased from 3 percent of GDP in 1977
to 5.5 percent of GDP in 1978. Preliminary estimates suggest that the overall
public sector deficit in 1978 was about 7 percent of GDP. At the same time,



because of high previous levels of external borrowings, increased comercial
sources of external funds, and a bunching of expired grace periods, the debt
service raltio of publicly guaranteed external debt increased from 9 percent in
1977 to 16.5 percent in 1978.
8.        The Government of Costa Rica is now taking some steps to bring the
excess demand pressures under control. In October 1978 the interest rate
structure of the banking system was overhauled and rates were significantly
raised for both borrowers and savers; the Central Bank rediscount rate was
raised from 8-10 percent to 14-15 percent; lending rates were raised for
most borrowers from a range of 8-12 percent to 14-15 percent, and time deposit
rates were increased from about 9 percent to 12 percent. At the same time the
Central Bank has adopted a restrictive credit policy, with a total credit
growth target of 17 percent for 1979 compared to nearly 30 percent (estimated)
in 1978. In January the Government announced that the large Central Government
budget for the year would not be wholly executed; planned cuts should reduce
the projected deficit by a third, and a mechanism has been established to
monitor public expenditures on a quarterly basis. Finally, the Government has
recently refinanced about US$150 million of the country's external debt on
favorable terms, and plans to continue this process later in 1979. These
actions are compatible with Government intentions to stabilize the economy
over a three-year period. Any further deterioration in the external position,
however, wrill require additional measures. This need is underscored by the
expectation that the country's terms of trade will not improve over the next
few years. Restoring internal and external balance to the economy is a
dominant policy issue, and the Bank plans to monitor this issue clcsely in the
coming months.
9.        The public sector has long played an important role in Costa Rica's
development process. The Government has given substantial attention to
improving basic infrastructure such as highways, feeder roads and the
development of the hydroelectric potential of the country.  Substantial
emphasis has been placed on the opening up of new areas for settlement and
cultivation. At the same time, the Government has provided a wide range
of public services. More than 45 percent of all expenditures of the Central
Government: have traditionally been in education, health, nutrition and
other social sectors. Health and nutrition programs have been an important
factor in reducing mortality rates from 11 per thousand in the earLy 1960s
to the present 6 per thousand. Life expectancy at birth has risen to
69 years. At the same time, general development, higher educational standards
and active family planning programs reduced birth rates so that the natural
rate of population increase fell from 3.7 percent in 1960 to 2.6 percent by
1975. Moreover, by spending almost one third of its budget on education,
the Central Government has been able to improve coverage and quality of
primary and secondary schools, reduce illiteracy to a minimum -- the adult
literacy rate was 89 percent in 1973 -- and provide a good quality university
education. Costa Rica has no standing army and the share of Central Govern-
ment expenditures devoted to security -- about 2 percent -- has long been
one of the lowest in the world.
10.       Costa Rica's income distribution is one of the most equitable in
Latin America, and the principal beneficiary of the development process in



- 4 -
the last decade has been the middle class. A 1975 initiative of the Govern-
ment, the Family Welfare Program, is designed to increase the living standards
of the poorest rural families, representing about one fourth of the population.
The program includes, among others, rural health, sanitation, housing and
education projects, as well as nutrition programs for pre-school and school-
age children and is financed primarily through payroll and sales taxes. On
the whole, the program's impact on the distribution of income and on rural
living levels is significant:  currently, roughly 1.5 percent of GDP is being
redistributed to the poorest 20 percent of the population.
11.       The medium-term prospects for the Costa Rican economy depend,
in large part, on the success of Government medium-term stabilization efforts.
Assuming that real import levels in 1979 and 1980 can be restrained below
their very high 1978 level, that a more moderate import growth can thereafter
be maintained and that the efforts underway to diversify and strengthen the
export sector will be felt by 1981, then the economy may expect to maintain
its growth momentum, with output growth averaging 4-5 percent in 1979-85.
12.       Over the longer term, a substantial effort towards industrializa-
tion through export diversification would be necessary if Costa Rica is
to maintain a high GDP growth rate while strengthening its balance of
payments. Some important steps to promote exports have been initiated.
Currently exports of non-traditional products to countries outside the
Central American Common Market are stimulated through a tax rebate scheme;
marketing outlets are being established in several countries in the
Caribbean; an export and tourism promotion line of credit (which is now
almost fully disbursed) was created and a special export promotion board
has been establishing contacts in Europe and the United States. Also, a
substantial expansion of hotel facilities is taking place to promote the
tourism industry. The country has made good progress in expanding existing
and developing new export lines; between 1976 and 1978, non-traditional
exports grew at 9 percent yearly in real terms.
13.       The public debt service ratio has fluctuated around 10 percent
during the last several years, although as noted in paragraph 7 above, it
is estimated to have risen to 16.5 percent in 1978. Assuming a gradual
decline in coffee prices to more normal levels by 1980 and 4-5 percent GDP
growth, with a corresponding lower import growth, the public debt service
ratio is projected to rise to an average 22 percent in the early 1980s.
Provided the efforts over the medium term to stabilize the economy and,
over the longer term, to diversify and strengthen the export sector are
successful, Costa Rica should remain creditworthy for the foreign borrowing
required for continued satisfactory development.
External Assistance
14.       As of December 31, 1978, it is estimated that the Bank Group
held 16.1 percent of the US$1,576.0 million external public debt outstand-
ing -- including undisbursed -- repayable in foreign currency. This share
is likely to decrease somewhat by 1980 because of an expected increase
in the activity of other external lenders. The Bank Group share of total
public debt service in 1978 was 9.0 percent, and it is also projected



to decline by 1980. Of the other major lenders to Costa Rica, the IDB
holds 15.3 percent of external public debt outstanding, including un-
disbursed, CABEI 8.0 percent, the U.S. Government 6.2 percent, Venezuela
3.2 percent, other bilateral lenders 6.9 percent and private lenders
44.3 percent.
15.       The lending to Costa Rica during 1966-78 from the four principal
external agencies totals US$833 million, of which IDB has provided 34 percent,
the Bank Group 31 percent, CABEI 22 percent and USAID 13 percent. The IDB
has concentrated on power, irrigation, health and education; USAID on agricul-
ture and health; and CABEI on transport, power and urban development. These
agencies are likely to continue in the same areas in the future except that
USAID is expected to be more active in urban development and CABEI's activities
in this area will be reduced.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       Costa Rica has received to date 23 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totaling $293.7 million net of cancellations. The last operation, a loan
for an Industrial Credit Project amounting to US$15.0 million, was signed
an July 12, 1978. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits andl IFC investments as of March 31, 1979 and notes on the execution
of on-going projects.
17.       Since other lenders have been able to provide Costa Rica with
substantia]L amounts of concessional lending which the Government prefers
to use for its socially oriented investments, the main thrust of the Bank's
past lending has been to help develop basic infrastructure, such as power,
telecommun:ications and highways. However, the Bank has also supported
efforts to increase and diversify exports through lending for agricultural
credit, and has helped make educational programs more consistent with
manpower objectives through a loan for secondary and vocational education.
The aforementioned industrial credit loan is helping to overcome the scarcity
of medium- and long-term industrial financing and the lack of adequate insti-
tutions for appraisal and supervision of industrial projects, and gLves
special consideration to small-scale industries.
18.       In future lending to Costa Rica, we intend to continue to provide
some support for the development of physical infrastructure, in view of
the continuing need for substantial amounts of external financing and our
long-standing involvement which gives us a special ability to foster
institutional development. We are planning, however, to increase Bank
lending in other areas, particularly agriculture, industry and rural develop-
ment to provide support for productive investment and export diversification
and to provide assistance to the rural poor. Follow-up loans to recent
operations for agricultural and industrial credit are planned, and the Bank
is financing the preparation of a rural development project in the Atlantic



-6-
Region, one of the poorest areas of Costa Rica. In addition, in order to
help provide a new source of foreign exchange earnings, the Bank is con-
sidering participation in the financing of, and in helping to mobilize
additional external resources for, the large Boruca hydroelectric project,
which is designed primarily to supply the power requirements of a proposed
aluminum complex. The project whose preparation is most advanced (after the
proposed Sixth Power Project) is designed to assist in the improvement of
the Government's road maintenance and rehabilitation programs.
19.       In our lending activities in Costa Rica, we will continue to coordi-
nate closely with IDB, USAID and CABEI not only with a view to improving
the effectiveness of lending by major external agencies at the national
level, but also to help assure that Government programs are developed in
a manner consistent with Central American priorities.
20.       IFC's activities in Costa Rica include a 1962 loan and equity
investments of US$194,000 and US$75,530 respectively, in a concrete block
factory, Productos de Concreto, S.A. In 1965 an additional debt and
equity investment of US$183,000 and US$54,830 respectively were made in
this company. These investments have since been sold and fully repaid.
In 1978 the Executive Directors approved two new investments in Costa Rica.
The first was a US$2.5 million loan for the expansion of the facilities of
Scott Paper Company de Costa Rica, S.A. This loan, which was approved in
March and has been 80 percent disbursed, is on schedule and within budget.
In November an equity and loan investment of US$700,000 and US$1.4 million
respectively was approved to help finance the integration and expansion of
a shrimp farm on the Pacific Coast of Costa Rica. This project, which will
make Costa Rica a world leader in the innovative shrimp farming industry,
was structured in coordination with, among others, CODESA, the government-
owned development institution and two of the local commercial banks. IFC
is also exploring other financing possibilities in the country.
PART III - THE SECTOR
21.       Costa Rica has no known fossil fuel reserves of any importance.  Its
minor oil deposits at this stage do not seem to be commercially exploitable.
There are geothermal deposits of some magnitude whose development is now being
examined with the financial assistance of IDB. By comparison, however, Costa
Rica's most abundant energy resource is hydroelectric power. Seventy-five
sites, many quite promising, have been identified with an estimated potential
of 9,000 MW and a possible annual output of 37,000 GWh. So far, only 305
MW have been harnessed but Costa Rica's hydro capacity is scheduled to more
than double (increasing to 632 MW) by 1982. Since the increase of petroleum
prices beginning in 1973, hydro power has become the fastest growing source
of energy in Costa Rica, increasing more rapidly than petroleum products as
the source of primary energy. Hydro power comprised 22 percent of consump-
tion in 1960 and 36 percent in 1976. The Government's policy is to reduce
petroleum's share of energy sources.



- 7 -
22.       Power investments in 1976-78 amounted to about 25 percent of total
public fixed investment in Costa Rica. This relatively large share reflects
the lumpiness of hydroelectric investment and the priority Government has
given to reliable electricity service to the general public in both urban
and rural areas and to the industrial sector, whose share of GDP is growing
and whose power consumption expanded 16.5 percent p.a. from 1960-76. Indus-
trial power consumption is expected to represent 37 percent of the total by
1990. Recent demand forecasts indicate that total Costa Rican power sales
will grow on average 7.7 percent annually through 1983. This forecast is
conservative since load growth from 1960-76 averaged 9 percent p.a. and it
does not take into account the possibility of sales to neighboring Nicaragua.
The economic feasibility of an inter-connection between Costa Rica and Nicaragua
has been established and the necessary agreements between ICE and the Nicaraguan
utility, ENALUF, have been negotiated. Financing has also been secured by
both utilities for the required transmission facilities, to be provided by the
Bank (through Loan 1340-NI) and CABEI. Procurement is expected to b,e initiated
shortly. In order to meet expected demand as well as to continue to substitute
for fuel-based generating capacity, the power sector is expected to continue
to require high levels of public investment.
23.       Along with its emphasis on use of indigenous resources for power
generation, the Government has also been trying to expand its rural electri-
fication program. Costa Rica's electricity consumption (690 kWh p.a. per
capita) wh:Lle relatively high by Central American standards, is consistent
with experience in other countries with similar income levels. A large
proportion of homes have electricity service. (Fewer than 5 percent: of
households close to existing distribution lines lack connections.) However,
the rural population (constituting about 58 percent of the total) has far
less access to electricity supplies than urban dwellers. As of 1973, half of
all rural dwellings were not electrified. 1/ In the 1960s and early 1970s
rural electrification was limited; it mainly consisted of creating rural
electrification cooperatives in selected areas. USAID, IDB, Government
and ICE provided the financing for this development. In 1974 and 1975 ICE,
encouraged by Government and the Bank, prepared a national rural electrifi-
cation plan which allowed a more systematic approach. IDB, through its Fund
for Special Operations, helped finance the first tranche of the plan which is
to be completed in 1980. It is now planning to participate in the financing
of the second tranche representing another step towards attaining the goal of
about 82 percent of the rural population being connected to the public
electricity supply system by the year 2000.
Sector Organization
24.       Ninety-five percent of the country's electric power is generated
by the publicly owned Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad (ICE) and its
subsidiary, Compania Nacional de Fuerza y Luz (CNFL). Together they
1/   ICE recently expanded its concept of "urban dwellings" from only those
in the San Jose metropolitan area to include all provincial caLpitals.
As a result, ICE statistics now show only 41 percent of rural dwellings
electrified in 1978.



- 8 -
distribute 83 percent of the electric energy sold for public consumption in
Costa Rica, with the balance being distributed by municipal utilities and
rural electrification cooperatives. Most of the sales take place in the
National Interconnected System (SNI) which links the facilities of CNFL and
the other distributors to ICE's main generating plants. ICE has been
successful in acquiring most of the small independent companies which
previously operated in the sector. There has therefore been substantial
progress towards the objective of consolidation of sector organization,
which the Bank has long been encouraging. Three municipal entities and
four rural electrification cooperatives are expected to remain independent
because of strong local support for their autonomy.  However, given these
utilities' dependence on ICE for electricity supply, they have moved towards
greater standardization of procedures, design and equipment. The proposed
loan would contribute to this objective by providing funds for distribution
works to be carried out by CNFL and two of the municipal utilities 1/ under
ICE's supervision.
25.       The Servicio Nacional de Electricidad (SNE), the national regulatory
authority, has jurisdiction over all public utilities. Although autonomous,
the SNE consults government before approving increases in tariffs.
The Borrower
26.       ICE was established in 1949 as an autonomous agency to plan and
carry out a national program of electrification. In 1958, it was given the
additional responsibility of providing the country's telecommunications
services. In 1968 ICE acquired 92 percent of the shares of CNFL from American
& Foreign Power, Inc. ICE has a seven-member board of directors appointed for
eight year terms on a staggered basis, with the exception of ICE's Executive
President, who serves as Chairman. The Executive President is appointed by
the President of the Republic and holds a rank comparable to that of a Cabinet
member; his four-year mandate coincides with the country's presidential term
of office. The Board appoints ICE's principal officers and confirms appoint-
ments by the general manager to other senior posts. Day-to-day management is
entrusted to the general manager, and his three deputy managers (for power,
telecommunications and administration/finance). ICE is exempt from all taxes.
27.       As a result of faster than anticipated growth of ICE's administra-
tive and financial staff, ICE's ratio of about 1.6 permanent power employees
per GWh generated is above the level forecast under the Fifth Power Project
(1.4). ICE has noted the need to control the growth of its staff; the project
performance indicators call for a decline of the ratio to 1.3 employees/GWh by
1983. ICE's management systems are considered satisfactory and its technical
staff is capable of carrying out its power operations adequately. The Bank
has encouraged ICE to maintain a clear organizational and financial separation
of power and telecommunications functions within the single entity that the
Government favors. To support this distinction, ICE has agreed to repeat the
1/   ESPH   - Empresa de Servicios Publicos de Heredia
JASEMA - Junta Administrativa de Servicios Electricos Municipales
de Alajuela



- 9 -
covenant of Loan 1126-CR (Fifth Power Project) requiring separate operation of
the power and telecommunications sections, the maintenance of separate records
and the preparation of separate financial statements.
28.       The financial results of ICE's power activities have been generally
satisfactory and steadily improving since 1974. Before then, ICE's power
section was in severe financial difficulty, mainly from cost overruns and
delays incurred in ICE's construction program.  Since ICE was then earning
a rate of return in excess of the minimum of 9 percent on historically valued
assets agreed under previous Bank loans, it chose to rely largely on commercial
bank loans rather than increase tariffs to finance its increased requirements.
In late 1973, when world oil prices rose sharply, thus greatly raising ICE's
operating costs and requLrbni. it to accelerate hydroelectric investment to
reduce its f'uture reliance on thermal-based generation, it became clear that
major tariff action was necessary, and the first power tariff increase in more
than five years (averaging 41 percent) was granted in 1974, followed by
several others over the course of the year and throughout 1975-76. l'hese
increases, iLn conjunction with improved financial market conditions which
allowed ICE to refinance substantial debt, improved ICE's finances in spite of
unusually hiLgh rates of inflation (averaging 19 percent p.a.) in Costa Rica
during 1974--76. The sector's contribution to investment from internally
generated resources improved from the negative values of the 1973-1974 period
to 18 percent in 1975-77, which coincided with the forecast in the appraisal
report of the Fifth Power Project. Power section debt service coverage rose
from 0.9 in 1973-74 to 1.5 in 1975-77 and the section's debt/equity ratio
improved from 67/33 at the end of 1974 to 59/41 at December 31, 1977. More-
over, the rate of return improved in 1976-77 as well, averaging 13.1 percent
on revalued assets. (ICE agreed to the change from historically valued assets
beginning in 1975 under Loan 1126-CR.) Preliminary estimates for 1978 indicate
that financial performance continues to be satisfactory and is in fact better
than forecast in the Fifth Power Project Appraisal Report. Similarly, ICE's
telecommunications section has had strong financial performance with rates of
return averaging 17.4 percent in 1976-77.
29.       Recently, however, difficulties have arisen in the construction
of the 157 M!W Arenal Plant (financed by IDB) which will interrupt the improving
trend of sector finances. The initial tests of the Arenal plant showed that
the rock in a 1,000 m long section of the pressure tunnel was not strong enough,
thus endangering the stability of the structure. ICE has already made arrange-
ments to strengthen the affected tunnel section, which will delay commissioning
of Arenal and will lead to substantially increased construction costs and fuel
imports. ICE should nontheless be able to achieve its covenanted 9 percent
return in 1979 but its debt service coverage ratio is expected to drop to 1.0
this year and the contribution of consumers to investment financing may be only
10 percent. CNFL is expected to be even more severely affected by the ration-
ing imposed in response to the delayed commissioning of Arenal. It is
unlikely to cover its debt service or investment requirements as provided
for by its concession agreement 1/ and the existing loan agreements with the
Bank. Remedial measures are planned in connection with the proposed project
(see para. 47).
1/   The concession agreement requires that CNFL's tariffs be adjusted to
generate revenues sufficient to enable CNFL to service its debt and the
debt ICE incurred for CNFL's acquisition and to carry out necessary
investments in CNFL's distribution networks.



- 10 -
Bank Participation in the Sector
30.       The Bank Group has made five loans to Costa Rica's electric power
sector, totalling US$80.8 million. 1/ The projects financed provided most
of the sector's hydroelectric generating capacity in operation before 1978,
much of its thermal capacity and a significant part of the transmission
and distribution facilities. All but the last project are now completed,
although some of them only after long delays and with large cost overruns.
The Project Performance Audit Report for ICE's Third Power Project 2/, which
involved the most serious delays and cost overruns, indicated that the
difficulties resulted mostly from unexpected geological problems. These
might have been detected beforehand only by carrying out prohibitively
expensive underground investigations. Nevertheless, this experience together
with other less dramatic ones has prompted ICE increasingly to hire consul-
tants at an early stage of design.
31.       The generation and studies components of the Fourth Power Project
were completed on time. The transmission component had to be delayed to
accommodate changes in ICE's future generation program, and there was a
small cost overrun. ICE encountered major difficulties in the initial
operation of the gas turbines which are the principal project component.
These now appear to have been resolved. Work has been proceeding satis-
factorily on the Fifth Power Project. The Moin thermal generation plant and
fuel storage tanks are completed; the Cachi hydroelectric plant extension is
almost finished; the enlargement of the Rio Macho hydroelectric generation
plant has been completed, and the distribution works (carried out by CNFL)
are in service. A substantial segment of the project's transmission work is
also complete. The stability, load dispatch and tariff studies have been
concluded. Project implementation delays of between 12 and 29 months were
partly attributable to ICE's slowness in initiating procurement. However,
the longest delays resulted from factors outside ICE's control, e.g. late
delivery of equipment and an extended dispute with an unsuccessful bidder
for the load dispatch center. The dispute was recently resolved in ICE's
favor. The delays experienced under the Fifth Project were analyzed in the
course of the appraisal of the proposed Sixth Project (which is similar in
concept to the transmission and distribution requirements of the former).
The implementation schedule of the Sixth Power Project accordingly takes into
account the lessons learned under the Fifth Project and is believed to be
realistic.
Sector Objectives
32.       The Government has set the following objectives for the power sector:
(i) Assuring a reliable and sufficient electricity supply to the
industrial and commercial sectors and providing electricity
to 85 percent of all dwellings by 1990 and 90 percent by the
year 2000;
(ii) Attracting industries requiring large amounts of electric
power, by developing the country's hydro potential;
1/   Loan No. 276 of February 2, 1961; Loan No. 346 of July 9, 1963;
Loan No. 631 of July 8, 1969, and Loan No. 800 of February 15, 1972,
and Loan No. 1126 of June 16, 1975.
2/   Sec M75-404 of May 29, 1975.



- 11 -
(iii) Reducing oil consumption in the power sector by substituting
hydro and geothermal energy for electric energy generated in
conventional thermal plants, and extending as far as economically
feasible the SNI to eliminate diesel generators presently
feeding isolated systems; and
(iv) Interconnecting Costa Rica's power system with Nicaragua
and possibly with Panama.
Investment Program
33.       In order to fulfill its obligation of meeting the increasing capacity
and energy demand, ICE plans to implement a power investment program for
1979 - 1982 mainly including the following works:
(a) the completion of the first stage (157 MW) of the Arenal
hydroelectric development (IDB-financed) and of associated
transmission and distribution facilities (financed by
Loan 1126-CR);
(b) the 174 MW Corobici hydroplant (IDB-financed) downstream
from Arenal;
(c) the transmission and distribution items of the proposed
Sixth Power Project, largely associated with Corobici;
(d) other transmission (including the interconnection with
Nicaragua) subtransmission and distribution facilities
to be financed by CABEI and ICE; and
(e) isolated generating plants and distribution items included
in the national rural electrification program (para. 23)
to be financed by IDB and ICE.
The costs of this program (excluding financing charges during construction)
are calculated at US$341.6 million, with a foreign component of US$151.4
million.
34.       During the period 1979-1982 ICE will also have to define the
generation facilities to be constructed after completion of Corobici.
At the present stage, the most promising hydroelectric projects appear to
be Angostura (175 MW) and Palomo (40 MW), both on the Reventazon River
and Ventanas-Garita (80 MW) or possibly the Guayabo (250 MW)/Siquirres
(600 MW) complex on the Reventazon and Pacuare Rivers.  However, the pro-
jects selected, the choice of the plant sequence and the timing of the
individual projects may also be affected by (i) the results of the ongoing
geothermal investigation in Guanacaste, and (ii) the measure of Government's
success inI attracting industries requiring substantial electrical energy.
35.       The most important potential industrial project involvingi substan-
tial energy consumption is the proposed aluminum smelter to be located near
Puerto Limon.  The Government has been conducting preliminary discussions



- 12 -
with Martin-Marietta Corp. of the U.S. which has expressed interest in a
project which would produce aluminum on the basis of imported alumina and
would utilize a major share of the large hydroelectric potential of the
Boruca site. Preliminary design for the Boruca hydro development has been
carried out and foresees an installed capacity of 760 MW producing about
5,000 GWh/year. ICE has selected consulting firms to carry out studies to
refine the cost estimates of the Boruca development. These studies are
included in the proposed project. The Government meanwhile has contracted
consultants to review the studies prepared by Martin-Marietta. Furthermore,
the Government's Planning Office (OFIPLAN) is now engaging consultants to
review the economic justification of the entire power-aluminum development on
the basis of the results of the engineering studies. If the Government and
the potential investors do not reach agreement, ICE would assess the possi-
bility of a reduced Boruca development solely to generate electricity for
normal consumption as an alternative to other hydro prospects.
36.       In addition to Boruca, ICE plans to carry out a program of engineer-
ing studies of hydroelectric projects in order to define its longer-term
investment program. Upon the completion of this program, ICE would have
available bid-level designs for the three or four most promising projects for
its further expansion. ICE agreed to inform the Bank at least once a year
about the progress and the results of the studies and to submit to the Bank,
not later than June 30, 1981, a least cost program through 1990 for generation
and major transmission facilities, which would be based on the above studies
(see Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). In view of the uncertainty
of the contents of the program from 1982 onwards, the Government agreed to
ensure that power sector expansion is carried out in a coordinated manner in
order to prevent waste and duplication of facilities, and that such expansion
is based on economically justified programs and is within the limits of the
financial, managerial and technical capacity of the entities in the power
sector (see Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). These provisions
should ensure that investment decisions are based on sound analysis.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Sixth Power Project " (No. 2433b-CR)
dated May 7, 1979 is being distributed separately. Supplementary data are
contained in Annex III. Following review of the feasibility studies of ICE's
expansion program through 1983, the project was appraised in November 1978.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 19 to April 23, 1979. The
ICE delegation was led by Mr. M. Burgos, Executive Vice President of ICE.
The Government was represented by Mr. R. Fernandez of the Ministry of Finance
and Mr. M. Vargas of SNE.
Project Objectives
38.       The main objective of the project is to expand the availability of
reliable electricity supply throughout Costa Rica by extending and strengthen-
ing the transmission and distribution network. The failure to contract the
facilities included in the project would lead to curtailments of supply which
would be costly to the economy, particularly by reducing industrial growth,



- 13 -
and would impede the substitution of hydroelectric for petroleum-based genera-
tion. A second objective is to assist the Government to determine the most
economical program for meeting incremental power demand after 1982. Further,
through participation in the financing of the project, the Bank will caontinue
to assist ICE to improve its financial performance (through encouraging, e.g.,
timely tariff increases and improvements in tariff structure).
The Project
39.       The project includes:
(a) transmission lines, substations, subtransmission and distri-
bution works for strengthening the SNI in view of the scheduled
commissioning of the Corobici hydroelectric plant in 1982;
(b) expansion of the load dispatching center being constructed
under the Fifth Project;
(c)  engineering studies to (i) bring the Boruca project to fina.l design
level and define its place in the sequence of generating fa.cilities
needed to meet future demand for public electricity supply; and
(ii) assess the feasibility of small hydro or wind power getnerating
urLits for isolated locations;
(d) studies to assist ICE in improving the planning, standardi--
zation and other aspects of its transmission system;
(e)  training of ICE's technical staff; and
(f)  equipment for protection, measurement, maintenance and installa-
tLon of transmission facilities.
The estimated completion date of the project is December 31, 1982.
The facilit:Les to be financed represent ICE's 1979-1982 investment in trans-
mission and distribution except for: (i) the remaining items of the Bank's
Fifth Power Project; (ii) the last phase of the CABEI-financed transmission
project associated with the Arenal plant; (iii) rural electrification, largely
financed by IDB; and (iv) the interconnection with Nicaragua, also CABEI-
financed. The items of the proposed project which will be installed in the
systems of ICNFL, ESPH and JASEMA are either the low voltage parts of sub-
stations of which the high voltage side is ICE's responsibility, or subtrans-
mission and distribution installations of the same specifications as those
used by ICE; all such items, therefore, represent those which can be procured
more economically together with the corresponding items for ICE.
Costs and Financing
40.       The total project cost is estimated at US$52.0 million equivalent.
Interest during construction would add US$4.2 million, bringing total finan-
cing requirements to US$56.2 million, of which US$36.7 million represents



- 14 -
the foreign component. The proposed Bank loan of US$34 million would cover
93 percent of foreign financing requirements. This would include about
US$2.8 million required for interest during construction and other charges on
the Bank loan. ICE would finance the US$19.5 million local costs of the
project and US$1.4 million of financial charges on the proposed loan. IDB has
agreed to finance up to US$1.3 million of the foreign cost of the Boruca
studies. US$7.4 million equivalent would be onlent by ICE to other Costa
Rican distributing entities (CNFL and two municipal companies) for subtrans-
mission and distribution items in their respective systems on the same terms
and conditions as the proposed Bank loan. As a condition of disbursement for
these items, ICE would enter into satisfactory relending agreements with the
three entities involved (see Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       A summary of project costs is set out in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this Report (page ii). Costs are based on late
1978 price levels, using unit costs from recent bids for similar equipment
and works, adjusted for subsequent inflation and changes in cvrrem-y -values.
Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of base costs. Allowances
for price increases are 8 percent p.a. for the foreign exchange component
and 10 percent p.a. for the local portion.
Studies
42.       The cost estimate of the Boruca studies is based on ICE's contract
with a consortium of consultants (Acres, SNC and Tecsult-Canada). The consul-
tants were selected on the basis of procedures and terms of reference accept-
able to IDB and the Bank, and the contract was signed in early 1979. Average
costs per man-month of these consultants are US$7,400 (excluding travel and
subsistence), which are reasonable.
43.       The feasibility studies for small hydro or wind power generating
units for isolated areas would be carried out largely by personnel of ICE.
However, ICE needs the assistance of consultants for (i) the detailed evalua-
tion of alternative resources in Costa Rica, (ii) the preparation of a training
program for ICE personnel in the evaluation and technology of the utilization
of these alternative resources, and (iii) pre-feasibility and feasibility
studies of pilot plants. The requirements are estimated at about 10 man-months
at US$5,000 per mm (excluding travel and subsistence). Individual consultants
for improving the planning, design and maintenance of the distribution and
transmission systems would provide 40 man-months of services at a cost esti-
mated to average approximately US$6,000 per mm (excluding travel and subsis-
tence). The cost estimates for both studies are also considered reasonable.
Procurement and Disbursement
44.       The extension of the dispatching center would require about US$500,000
of equipment from the suppliers of the equipment for the first stage of the
center (purchased through international competitive bidding--ICB--under Loan
1126-CR). For uniformity of equipment and procedures, it would be desirable
for US$600,000 of additional equipment and computer programming services to
be bought from the same suppliers. It is proposed to accept negotiated



- 15 -
procurement, expected to amount to a maximum of US$1.1 million, of dispatching
center equipment and software provided the price offered compares reasonably
with what could be expected to be obtained under ICB. With the exception of
the dispatching center items, all works and equipment would be procured on the
basis of ICB, following the Bank's guidelines. Suppliers from Costa Rica
and other Central American Common Market countries would be granted a margin
of preference of 15 percent of the CIF landed price or 50 percent of itaport
duties, whichever is lower, in accordance > tth the Central American Agreement
on Fiscal Incentives. Central American suppliers are expected to be competi-
tive under these arrangements principally for conductors for the transmission
lines and construction materials amounting to approximately US$2.8 million.
45.       Disbursements from the loan account would be made for (i) 100
percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment and materials and their
installation; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants and
training services; (iii) the ex-factory cost of contracts awarded t:o Costa
Rican manufacturers; and (iv) interest and other charges accrued oln the
Bank loan up to August 31, 1982.
Financial Analysis
46.       The problems experienced on Arenal (see para. 29) will adversely
affect sector finances in 1979. While ICE is expected to achieve its cove-
nanted rate of return of 9 percent on annually revalued assets, the debt
service coverage ratLo fs eKpected to drop to 1.0 in 1979. CNFL is not
expected to meet the revenue requirements of its concession agreement in 1979.
47.       ICE and the Government have agreed to maintain tariffs at levels
sufficient to generate a 9 percent return on annually revalued assets
for ICE and to meet the terms of CNFL's concession (see Section 5.05(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement). This should permit ICE and CNFL to achieve satis-
factory financial performance after 1979. Their debt service coverage ratios
would be in the range of 1.3 to 1.6 for ICE and 1.4 to 1.7 for CNFL, and their
combined contribution to investment in the period 1979-82 would beb 28 percent.
ICE has indicated its intention (and that of CNFL) to apply to SNE, no later
than July 15, 1979, for further tariff increases needed to meet these require-
ments for 1980 and 1981. ICE expects an average base tariff increase of some
52 percent which it proposes to put into effect in January 1980. Since the
present fuel surcharge would simultaneously be reduced to zero, the net
increase would be approximately 15 percent. The proposed loan would be signed
after the applications for tariff increases are submitted to SNE and would be
declared effective after CNFL's tariff increase is approved. As lnder previous
loans, SNE provided assurances that it will continue to deal expeditiously
with ICE's and CNFL's tariff applications.
48.       The existing loan agreements require that ICE and CNFL Tbtain Bank
approval for any long-term borrowing proposed at a time when operating income
is less than 1.5 times the maximum long-term debt service requirements for any



- 16 -
succeeding year. ICE has agreed to repeat the sa(me provision in the proposed
loan agreement. The existing loan agreements also provide that the amount of
ICE and CNFL bonds redeemable before their maturity date should not exceed 30
percent of the total amount of their bonds outstanding. ICE agreed to repeat
this covenant in the proposed loan agreement as well. In addition, as in the
past, ICE agreed to annual revaluation of fixed assets.
Economic Analysis
49.       Studies by ICE have shown that the transmission and distribution
works included in the project would be the least cost alternative consistent
with a reasonable standard of reliability. CNFL's distribution development
plan is based on recommendations by Montreal Engineering Co. (Canada) and ICE
applied a similar approach to its own distribution works and those to be
carried out by the two municipal utilities who will be sub-borrowers from ICE
under the project.
50.       The rate of return on investment has been calculated for the sector
investment program which includes the Corobici project and the related trans-
mission and distribution works (and thus the Bank-financed project). The
return was determined as the discount rate which equates the present value
of the streams of costs and benefits. Revenues were used as a proxy for
benefits and were calculated at projected 1983 tariffs deflated to 1978
values. Under these assumptions, the equalizing discount rate is 11 percent,
which is equal to the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Costa Rica.
This return probably understates the real economic rate of return of the
program, as revenues from sales of electricity may not fully measure some of
the benefits to society such as the social benefits of resLdential and public
uses, or the indirect benefits to industry and commerce whose production and
employment depend on reliable electricity. Based on an independent analysis
of consumer attitudes, ICE has estimated that consumers outside the San Jose
metropolitan area would be willing to pay at least twice the present rate.
51.       The relatively low return on the sector investment program indi-
cates that present tariffs are barely sufficient to cover the marginal cost
of expanding electricity supply. This conclusion is reinforced by a more
detailed study of retail tariff structures carried out under the Fifth
Project by consultants. The study suggested further investigations with a
vtLw to aligning tariffs better with the marginal cost of service to different
classes of customers. ICE approved the main recommendations of the study in
1978 and will import special metering devices to be used for the recommended
investigations, which are expected to be completed by mid-1981. ICE has
agreed to furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1981 its proposals for changes in
its tariff structure (see Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Environment
52.       There are no major environmental risks associated with the project.
ICE and the distributing companies which would participate in the project
intend to route their lines, which will be overhead, and locate their sub-
stations so as to minimize their visual impact in a manner consistent with
economic and financial considerations.



Risks
53.        There are no unusual risks involved in carrying out the prcject.
Its construction schedule is reasonable and takes into account normal
engineering, administrative and construction procedures, as well as experi-
ence in previous power projects in Costa Rica. ICE's staff will handle the
engineering and physical construction work, based on its substantial experi-
ence with the type of facilities included in the project, assisted as necessary
by suppliers ' specialists.  ICE will also assist the other distributing
entities in installing their items. The main element of risk which could
result in a lower return on the total investment program than estimated in
para. 50 is the possibility of cost overruns. As already noted, however, in
para. 30, ICE has taken reasonable precautions to avoid the recurrence of the
problems its major projects encountered in the past.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.        The draft Loan Agreement between ICE and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Costa Rica and the Bank, and the
Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern of loans for
power projects and their more important features have been included in Part
IV and summLarized in Section III of Annex III of this report. A condition of
signing the Loan Agreement would be that applications had been filed by ICE
and CNFL for tariff increases sufficient to ensure ICE's earning of the
required 9 percent return and to enable CNFL to meet the requirements of its
concession agreement in 1980-81; furthermore, the loan would be made effective
after CNFL's tariff increase is approved. There is one special conclition of
disbursement under the Loan Agreement:  that ICE has entered into satisfactory
agreements for relending US$7.4 million to three other distributing entities
for the subtransmission and distribution items.
55.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreemenit of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment                                            By I. P. M. CargilL
May 17, 1979



- 18 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page  2  of
COSTA RICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFEMNCE GROUPS (ADJU3TED AVERAGES
COSTA RICA                                                  /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 1M.)                                                    - HOST RECENT ESTIDATE)
TOTAL              50,7                                                     SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       20.7                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /I   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                   380.0        650.0    1240.0            1066.7      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF GOAL EQUIVALENT)      233.0        421.0      544.0            911.1       578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, HID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                           1.2         1.7        2.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.5 /f        36.5      40.6             57.9        46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         24.0        34.0       41.0             25.6        50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       85.0        93.0      101.0             77.6        93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           48.4        47.4       44.1             42.0        42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                          48.5         49.3       52.4             52.2        53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND AROVE                     3.1          3.3       3.5              3.7         3.5          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.7          3.5       2.5              2.7         2.5          1.6
URBAN                                4.2 /j       5.2 /h    5.0 /1           4.3         4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       47.9         41.8      31.0             35.8        37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       11.6          8.1       5.8              9.1        10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5          2.8       2.1              2.6         2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         19.0      31.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       33.7             15.1        20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               85.4       100.0      107.7            102.1       107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
.EEQUIREMENTS)                   98.0        110.0      113.0            103.9       105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            55.0        63.0       66.0             60.3        63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         30.0 /i     35.0         ..             26.7        21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        6.9          4.6        3.0              8.7        8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    61.3           66.8      69.1              62.6       57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             68.6         62.0      37.6             56.9        53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         74.0        ..             60.7        56.8         67.7
URBAN                                 ..        98.0      100.0             78.0        79.0         83.5
RURAL                                 ..        59.0         ..             34.9        31.8         41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         52.0      93.0             61.1        30.9         70.3
URBAN                                 ..        66.0       94.0             80.3        45.4         90.7
RURAL                                 ..        43.0       93.0             25.4        16.1         38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2600.0       1630.0    1430.0           1899.3      2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1770.0       1690.0        ..           1220.1      1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 ..       250.0      260.0            422.3       403.9        275.4
URBAN                                 ..       100.0      110.0            258.2       229.6        129.9
RURAL                                 ..      4440.0         ..           2281.6      2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         28.0      29.0              25.6       22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.8 /f       5.6       5.6               5.2         5.2         3.9
URBAN                                5.4 If        ..        ..               ..          5.0
RURAL                                6.0 If        ..        ..               ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.5 /f       1.3        1.4              2.0         2.0         0.9
URFAN                                1.3 If        ,,       1.4              2.1          1.5         0.8
RURAL                                1.7 /f        ..        ..               2.7        2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               55.0 /f        ..      68.8              51.2       64.2         59.2
URBAN                               93.5 If        ..        ..              77.3       67.8         78.0
RURAL                               32.0o7         ..      50.0              12.8       34.1          12.5



- 19 -                                             AINNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  1  of  5
COSTA RICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COSTA RICA                                              / i
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP Ie
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 96.0       110.0      111.0           103.5        99.8        97.6
FEMALE               95.0        110.0         ..           102.9       93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 21.0        28.0       32.0            37.2        33.8        47.8
FEMALE               21.0         29.0        ..             37.9       29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 19.0         10.0       12.0            14.7        12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            26.0        30.0       29.0            32.8        34.9        2',.4
SECONDARY                          22.0        17.0       22.0            17.8        22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        84.4 /f        ..      89.0             74.9       71.8         96.3
CONSUME'TION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POP'ULATION                        14.0        23.0       28.0            26.9        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POP'ULATION                        66.0        72.0       74.0           173.5       104.5       20L.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POP'ULATION                         3.0        57.0       78.0            69.4        28.1        97.7
NEWSP'APER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  92.0           ..      97.0             72.8       45.2         7).9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..              4.3        4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       400.0 /f        *-     590.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   16.4           ..      19.3            21.4        25.7        17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              49.0           ..      36.4            37.8        46.2        38.4
IN'DUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.5          ..       19.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.3         30.7      32.1             30.8       33.8         33.7
MALE                                 50.4         49.9      51.5             47.2       48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                9.9         11.2      12.6             13.2       17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.9           ..       1.6              1.7        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0         22.8         ..             28.9       23.6          0.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.6         50.6         ..            57.7        52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.7          5.4         ..             3.2         4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0         14.7         ..             10.7       13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..           251.9       191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     163.0            200.6      193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URtBAN                               ..           ..     310.0           403.1       319.8        448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     221.0            258.0      197.7        3L3.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                *-           *-      20.0             24.8       19.8         23.2
RIURAL                               ..           ..      40.0             65.2       35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1963;  /g  1950-63;  /h  1963-70;  /i  1970-73;  /1  1962.
Septem,ber, 1978



- 20 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                     ANNEX   I
Page 3 of
h'ot    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geosetric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access co water and ecareta disposal, housing, inc.se diatributien and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand  q. kho)                                                              population per hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total osrface area comprising lnd area and inland waters,                        urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Host recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialized hospital and rt-
or permsnently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and =edi-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accoodation and
1960, 1970, ard 1977 data,                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions Per hospital bed - Total comber of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAFITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                     from hospitals divided bv the number of bad.c
(coal and ligrite, petroleum, natural gas and hydra-, nuclear and geo-
therral electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOUSING
Average sine of household (persons per hou..ehold) - total, urban, and rural-
POPCLUATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of indJviduals who share living quarters
Total populatiar, mid-year (millions) - An of July 1; if not av-ilable,                   and their main meals.   A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban copulation (percert of tota1) - Ratio of urban to total popyla-                     hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persons per roon  - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                                ber of persona per room in all, urb-an, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structure- and
Per  sq. k.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and coral -
Per sq. h   agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population cue structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years) working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                   Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of a11 ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level an percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes childrer aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                      different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may exceed 100 perceet since some pupils are below or
1970 and fine-year average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate,                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total, and female - Ct-puted as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                   tion requires at least four yearn of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estiate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondaryj - Vocational instliutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         clude technical, industrial, or other TroSrams which operate independ-ntly
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-contrrl devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and seconde-y - Total students enrolled in
planning program,                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided bh  numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                        spending levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-64 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate idults (able to read and -rite) as
devices to  il: married women in same age group,                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AIND NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Index of food productior per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                   Passenger cars (per thousand Population) - Passenger cars comprise notor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                     Seating less than eight persona; exclude, ambulances, hearses and military
Per capitas UPPly of calories (percent of requiremxents) - Computed from                vehicl.
energy equivalent of net food supplies avsilable in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand Population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available snpplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per thosoant of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in fond processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; date for recent years may not be conparablt  since most .co.nroes
quire=-s were estimasted by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - 'V receive-s for broadcast to gerdera
weights, age and sea distributionn  of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; esclud-s unlicensed TV receiv-r; in coon-
cent for waste at household level.                                                      tries and in years when registration or TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper circulation  (per thousand populction) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                    tion  of "daily general interest newspa;er", defined an a periodical publi-
above.  Requniements for all  no ncries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primruily to recording general news.  It is coscidered  c
a rini=ur alo.wance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four times a wee.k
of animal and polse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capita per yrar - Based on the nu.rber  f tickcts
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                   sold during the year, including adminssons to drie-in cicenas and nubil,
23 groins of anial pniteia as anver age for the world, prcpnsd by                      u
FAO in the Th:rd World Food Survey.
PFr capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, incluiding srled
Child (aces 1-4i  mortality rate (per th.oa.nd) - Annual deaths per thous-                 forces and unemployed bat occluding ho sewi-es, sn-ce-ts,  tco.  Desfni-
and in ago group 1-4 years, to children in this age group,                              tins in various countries are not coelarable.
Female (percent) - Penale labor force as percentage, of toral labor f.or.
HEALTH                                                                                  Aericultue (corrt) - Labor force i  farring, forestry, hunting sd fishing
Life osoprosncy an birth (ycsrs) - Average number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manfacttaring and
and 1975.                                                                               electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor fnrce.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (percert) - total, malt, and female - Total, sale,  nd
une year of ago per thousand live birhts,                                               0essl  labor force as porcentages of their respective p- pulanicos
Access to safe cater (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are TL0's adjusted participation rates reflecting ace-sec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                    strocture of the population. ard long  iEe trnd.
safe cater supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of papa ation under 15 snd 65 and  --o to
enconaruinared water nuoh as than Pram protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor fione in age group of 15-64  enus.
and sanitarY cells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located mat more                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
thus 200 i eters fro= a house may be considered as being within r.a-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and kird) received by richest 5
sonableacoess of that house.   Is rarl areas ra..non bleoccess would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 2. percent, and poorest 40 pecent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                     of households.
sypnd a dispr-portioncte part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROIPS
Access to e-crora disposal (nereent of populutida) - total  urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (iS$ Per capit) - urban and oral -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by emcreta                       Absolute poverty income level is that  sco.e level below which a  nisioul
disposul or perceotages of their respective populations.  Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essenial non-food requirem-tos is art
disposal nay :nclude the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
eratr..t, of huuan escrete and waste-water by water-borne systems                   Estimated relative poverty income level (liSt  per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative poverty income level :s that  ncone level less than ore-third
Popslatloc per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                      per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                      Estimated population below poverty inco=e level (percent) - urban and rural -
PoPoatlo  per nursing person - Ppoplation divided by number of                           Percent of population (urban and  ortal  who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing talc and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
-ssistant nurses.
Econ =ic and Social Data Division
Economic  nalysis and Prol-tin- DIepartmont



- 21 -
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMI1,C DFVFP  4TDAAAED
Actual                Estimated         Projeted             1970-       1973        1978 -
1970        1973        197?        1970        19c0        1965        1975        1978         1985                    1970        1978        1985
NATIONAL AC1200T3
NAncute io 196-9Pie             ahaeRtsA,                                    IGrAnul mot  Rte                     Ao Percet of 0D0
Irons .. Osetria Pocducs                      855.2      10084.0 ~ 1201-9.0      163         17.         1830.4        .           5.1         4T3                    99.2        98.5       100.9
Dos   laTors  of To-ode-.                 7.2       -17.7        49.0        20.       £6            1.2          ...0.8                                                     1.5         -0o9
loco.. Dao-ti  Inom-535                                  7557         33.          138.2     1 .4473     II7           5            7                                100.0       100.0       100.0
Taoto(al. I                         719.1        111.o       44,.4       489.2       490.1       569.0       1.2          8.1         2.2                    37.0'       35.3        91.4c
*    A5.ocots "(coocotoacsobty('                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~57.9  277.4           395           6.         46,9.      10.5            9         ..1                   29.9         2.
Oca--c  Gap                -6.0                              .73                   157                                                7979                                          =77
dsaosscRpordaare                       745.1       8s6.6      1044.1       1140.6      1107.7      1437.2       4.8         59          3.4c                    86.4        82.2        79.3
Ossestcecn'(isoA. ocasits)'       ~~~~~176.4  243.3       357.0        386.0       344c.;      455.8      10.9         8.7         3.2                     20.7        26.4        25.1
La-co09ss lasiogo                 55~~~~~~~~~17.!  IS'9.8  29.3.9      246.4c      259.4       376.0      17.1         3.-4        d.2                     03.6        17.8        20.7
-    Itososal Icoasgo                             ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~110.3  169.2  268.3  214.4  o1b.o  305.7  15.9         4..8        5.2                    1o.8         15.5        18.9
tlL1.CHAOLOAA TOAst                                               Asn1a Dat  at Ccroct P-ion                                                                                  Ao Percent of Octal
Is-or-
Taisl  ods                                78.6       124.3       248.3       3031.2       310.9       565.5      16.5        19.          9.3                    24.6         25.4        26.2
CisscrCast  Ocdt  col  fools)                 122.8       184.1       4.22 2      307.6        539.3      946.3      14i.5        92.3         9.2                    38.8         42.6        43.9
Petralosa, Oil, Labrsoasco   ~~~~~-            31:5        92.0       107.4       107.6       222.8      99.0         27.8        11.0                     3.9         9.0         10.2~
C. p-loGsadolc_0Aod                                                   2-47.6     _27c.2       2  .72.      422.1       9           7.8         6.4                    325         23.0         19.6
Total ceroh--so  Thp-tco                        6                     901        5535        5           2157.1      =25          21.2                               100.0       100.0       100.0
Poso-y   -drosts  cool. tools.)               1-            2-1         534.9       ,27.1       52-c.?      862.6      od,.;       16.8         7 .3           t        70.4        6~3.2       01.9
MOsfcr.tored loads                            6           ___1_2_     280.1         6-        400.8       -79.89     19.7         24.5        14.7                    26.5'       36.8         48.1
Tato1 Kc-hlod-aolr-rt, (fad)                 ca-1.2       34~-o 5     81.0        03.5        92.5       161.        85           19.3        '07510.                            100.0        100.0
Mc-hassa dliTde basso                                                  A--roa  1967-69 = 101
opart Prose Isle                                                      295.2       273         207.5       41.2        8.3         56            .
Ooco  Poss                                        8 Oos.              251.0       268.4       309.8       41.oo      1.           12.2         6.5
of -crass Issa                            102.6g        32.1       017.6       107,.0       92.6        96.0       31           .          -1.5
lassos OcLoooe laGos           122.?       022~~~~~~~~-.0  6c?      7.         192.6       247.1 .D.                             .
0,132 AsDE1 BY £6118                                     I..-!sa  la-  at 19)6-o-9 PrAcs A Esoh-g  Oases
~Ir--dsa-                                     195.-       231.1       247.4       259,.8      270.5        306.9      5.9          2.3         2.5~                   23.3         19.0        16.9
I.d-try3 cod Mboss0              ~             o >0.      319).6      349.3       373.8       410.1        550.6       0.5         8.7         s.7                    21.0         27.4        30.1
________                          ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~430.?  312.-c  6092...   l 732.? j 3.     969.6       7.;         7.0          -..l                   72.7        53.1        53.0
TossI                                         855.2      0010         269        163         14.1        130.3        7.5          5.1l         5                    100.0       100.1        100.0
ass-a  Data at Coret P-in                 Ac Persot of 31)-
P111  2000                                                  A.tocaa            Entitlnod
(Costool Ocoors-cosl)               ~~~~~        ~~~1970  1975  1977     1978          1971      0977
Gocoress Ocoospos                 5~~~ ~~~~~75   77       -033         538          1.          13.2
Cooreac lasecastoorca             Al 0~~~~11)   20r. 7    3 4         407.9         12.9        12.4.
C-"ear  Doigo                                  5.            7         22.        -23.3          7            .
2J1cr Podlis 6dctlao                                            a      68.9        ..            2.5         2.9
I-la  soI-t -tccs                      43.          028.      261.0        ..            6.7         0.2
0030011L GDVEPRNENI                                                                                                      DETAIL ON
TOTAL E IPID)1T001  LITaLa                                   -t..o l             PelsayPUBLIC 100T01                                                                       Ac~ 6 of Total       Est-tas
soaTl    aedscret_                                     -971             1977                                 TVINVESTME                                      1973         1975        1=977
Coasasnas                             ;0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TO7  =32.     33.0                                 Agi-Oalto-e                                       1.3         5.0         1.9
OIler aaossn sorosoct                            1~~~~~~~~~i43  3.6  03.0                               IOud.atoy                                         0.2          2.9        11.9
ho osseba  lootoosa                                21.3             2o~~~~~~~1111  &.8                   P-A                                              25.2        25.7        72.4
stsor                                  27~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  32.3  31.2                                TooSc-tr oca Can-cai-ti...                      43.3         33_6        32.9
Total Expo-ds1tr-                                 110.0       110.9             100                   ..1             do sol  oso                                     25.5         24.6        16.o
Uth-o                                            1.5          8.p         0.0
00101 E-redit-oe                               100.0       55553       58875
OUTPToo  PER W06KER                                                    TcOti Dolor 0000                                   Onl- Added p00 Wonek  at Pactar Coot (Currat Poises)
I.To hosousds                 o  Toadl            1913-73               Ic 0.0. Dollar    Per-et of Averge
09   _1970             91         3333    Gd...sh R,t,             196-        L193      19g
Ag,Oaluo                                         -.3        10.             4.--1                    0.                  754         11-
soasotoy                                         1~.9       116.1          08.7        19.8         4.1                 1248        2320       1n6          119
________                     23.1        330.1         33~~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~                                   ~~~~~~241  0,.8  19+  2417  i-.6  12~
local                               o94~~~~~~~~~~~~2.1  91     100.1       10.1          5013                             57        T             8



- 22 -
BAIANCE OF PAYlENIB. EXTERNAL ASBS]STRT)} AND L'EBT                            ANMEX I
(Amounts in mi'lions of US dollars at current prices)                           Page 5 of
A c t u a 1                     Estimated       ProJected
1974       1975      1976         1977        1978          1980        1985
SUMR   BANCEOFPAYgNTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                528.6      596.4      715.3       957.8       993.5         1131.5      20o2.6
Imports (incl. NFS )               765.7      770.3     858.8       1117.6      1316.1         1394.2      2376.1
Resource Balance (X44)      7        T   -     73 .    -322.7W       ! 6        -lW72          C95u        --
Interest (net)                     -27.0      -31.4     -41.7        -54.4       -82.2         -130.8      -287.6
Direct Investment Income           -14.0      -24.2     -32.1        -20.2       -19.8          -21.5       -27.5
Workers' Remittance                   -          -          -           -           -              -           -
Curren  Transrers (net)              7.6       12.5      11.9         14.7        15.8           17.7        24.8
Balance on Current Accounts      - 2         -397 -   26 -                      4 82T         -X2L;       ..623.°
Private Direct Investment          46.3        69.0      55.0         65.0        69.0           74.9       105.1
Official Capital Grants              6.4       11.0       4.7
Public MALT Loans
Disbursements                     87.1      152.2     156.0        236.2       278.4         391.7        786.2
-Repayments                     -33.4       -41.0     -39.5        -50.4       -90.5       -114.9       -252.3
'det Disbursements                 3r7        111.2     116.7        1DS.8       177           21767        533.9
Other M1LT Loans
Disbursements                     70.5      128.4    115.0          84.9       140.0         157.5        201.0
-Repayments                     - 36.7      -6o.6     -99.5        -77.O       -89.5       -131.9       - 174.1
Net Disbursements                   35.8       677       1577        -779         50.5          25.6         26.9
Capital Transactions n.e.i.        105.4       21.1      7.1.         64.9        69.8
Change in Net Reserves              22.9      -20.9      -64.7      -108.6        31.6          20.0        -42.1
A c t u a 1
GRANT AND LOAN CCKMEITMENTS                                                                                                       1970      1975       1977
Official Grants & Grant-like                                                                   DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed   134.2      619.7      734.6
Public MALT Loans
IBbD                              23.5       11.0      39.0         34.5                        Interest on Public Debt         7.1      23.4       35,6
Sy-                                           -          -           -                         Repaymeents on Public Debt      20.6      41.0       5C.4
IDB                              14.7        75.6      35.0         61.3                        Total Public Debt Service      27.7      61.1       P6.0
Other Multilateral                24.2       38.2       6.6         25.0
Governmenlts                      34.0       26.4      48.6         30.3                      Burden on Export Earngs  .
-Fvppliers                        10.3        11.6     19.4         30.6                        Public Debt Service             9.9       0.8        9
Financial Institutions            66.6       70.0     166.5        160.1                        TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.        11.2      i4.1       11.1
Bords                              -           -         -           -
Public Loane n.e.i.                -           -         -           -                       Average Terns of Public Debt
Total Public M&T Loans            173.7       253.      315 1        341.8                        Int. as S Prior Year LOAD       5.7       7.         6.6
Amort. as 9 Prior Year DOdD   16.5       13.5        9.4
EXTERNAL DEBT                              Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec.3977
Disbursed Orly             Percent                IERD Debt Out. & Disbursed        ,6.1      85.0     124.0
World Bank                                   124.0                     -r.9                     ' as % Public Debt 06D         26,c      20.1       16.9
ILA                                             5.1                      0.7           '           as 9 Public Debt Service   16.R       1'.1      1.7
IDB                                            51.1,                     7.C
Other Multilateral                             63.7                      8.7                 IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed          4.6       5.2        5.1
Governments                                   139.5                     19.0                   " as % Public Debt SiC           ,.1,      1.2         .7
Supplier,                                      37.7                      5.1                     so t Public Debt Service       5.1       0.1        0.1
Financial Teetitutise-                        307.1                     41.6
Pcnds
Public Debts n.e.i.                             6.1                      0.8
Total Public M&LT Lebt                          731
not applicable                            0   staff ectirate
rot available                             -   nil or negligible
...   not availalle . rarately                 --  less than half the smallest unit shown
but included in total



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year      Borrower            Purpose            Bank    IDA /1  Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and credits fully disbursed                  109.4   5.5            -
827        1972     Banco Central       Agriculture          9.0       -         0.7
915        1973     Costa Rica          Education            6.2       -         2.9
1006       1974     ICE                 Telecommunica-
tions              23.5       -         3.5
1126       1975     ICE                 Power               41.0       -         8.5
1187       1976     Costa Rica          Highways            39.0       -        27.7
1410       1977     Costa Rica          Agriculture
Credit             18.0       -        18.0
1491       1977     Costa Rica          Urban Transport   16.5         -        16.3
1532       1978     ICE                 Telecommunica-
tions              10.6       -        10.6
1599 /2   1978      Banco Central       Industrial Credit 15.0         -        15.0
Total                                           288.2    5.5        103.2
of which has been repaid                       41.5    0.4
Total now outstanding                           246.7    5.1
Amount sold                      11.1
of which has been repaid       6.1              5.0       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  241.7    5.1
/1   Excluding exchange adjustments.
/2   Not yet effective.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31, 1979)
Year   Obligor                                 Type of Business   Loan   Equity  Total
1976   Productos de Concreto S.A.              Concrete products   0.6       -       0.6
1978   Scott Paper Co. de Costa Rica S.A.  Paper Products            2.5      -      2.5
1979   Maricultura S.A.                        Shrimp Farming        1.4    0.7      2.1
Total gross commitments                                      4.5    0.7       5.2
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                       0.6      -      0.6
Total now held by IFC                                        3.9    0.7       4.6
Total undisbursed                                            1.9    0.7       2.6



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 827    Second Agricultural Credit Project:  US$9.0 Million Loan of
June 5, 1972; Effective Date: January 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Over 90 percent of Bank funds have been disbursed and the balance
has been earmarked for applications in process.
Loan 915    Education Project:  US$6.2 Million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: December 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is progressing about 20 months behind schedule. The
operation of the Project Unit has improved significantly, and a revised imple-
mentation schedule has been developed. After delays impeding the construction
of regional centers and headquarters of the National Institute of Apprentice-
ship, the management of this component has improved and there is now more
satisfactory progress on all segments.
Loan 1006   Fourth Telecommunications Project:  US$23.5 Million Loan of June 14,
1974: Effective Date: November 19, 1974; Closing Date: September 28,
1979.
The project is progressing satisfactorily, and no cost overruns
or delays in implementation are envisaged at this time.
Loan 1126   Fifth Power Project:  US$41.0 Million Loan of June 16, 1975:
Effective Date: December 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
After initial delays, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
For details, see para. 31 (p. 10) of this report.
Loan 1187   Fourth Highway Project:  US$39.0 Million Loan of January 14, 1976;
Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
Construction of the San Jose-Rio Sucio-Siquirres and Rio Sucio-
Purto Viejo highways has been progressing four months behind schedule. The
contractor is expected to proceed more rapidly after making organizational
improvements. Construction of the weighing station on the Siquirres-Limon
Highway has been completed; acquisition of portable weighing scales, vehicles
and equipment is progressing well.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. These should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -                       ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
Loan 1410   Agricultural Credit and Development Project:  US$18.0 Million
Loan of June 2, 1977: Effective Date: January 23, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is about 12 months behind schedule. Subsidiary loan
agreements have been signed with four commercial banks but, as no sub-loan
commitments have yet been made, the Central Bank has begun active promotion
of sub-loan applications. The Ministry of Agriculture has employed 60
additional extension agents and held training courses. The Government has
prepared satisfactory terms of reference for the rural development study and
appointed the head of the study team.
Loan 1491   San Jose Urban Transport Project:  US$16.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1977: Effective Date: March 2, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is in its initial stage of execution. The Government
is beginning to contract for the civil works and equipment components.
Loan 1532   Fifth Telecommunications Project:  US$10.6 Million Loan of
March 23, 1978; Effective Date:  March 9, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
ICE recently met the conditions for loan effectiveness and
has been preparing the procurement actions required for the project.
Loan 1599   Industrial Credit Project:  US$15.0 Million Loan of July 12, 1978;
Terminal Date for Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The Central Bank was recently granted additional time to enable
it to meet the conditions of effectiveness. It has begun to establish the
Industrial Development Fund and to recruit its staff.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COSTA RICA
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare project: approximately 5 months
(March 1978 to July 1978)
(b) Project prepared by: ICE
(c) First presentation to the Bank: March 1978
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: October 1978
(e) Completion of negotiations: April 23, 1979
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: October 9, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) ICE and CNFL would revalue their fixed assets annually and would
maintain electricity tariffs at levels sufficient to achieve a
9 percent return on ICE's revalued net assets in operation and to
comply with the terms of CNFL's concession respectively (para. 47);
(b) ICE would inform the Bank at least once a year about the progress
and results of its program of engineering studies, and would present
to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1981, a least cost program
through 1990 for generation and major transmission facilities
(para. 36);
(c) The Government would ensure that power sector expansion is
carried on in a coordinated manner in order to prevent waste and
duplication of facilities; that such expansion is based on economic-
ally justified programs; and that such expansion is within the
financial, managerial and technical capacities of the entities
(para. 36);
(d) Prior to June 30, 1981, ICE would inform the Bank of its
proposed changes in its tariff structure (para. 51);



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page l of 2
(e)  Before signing the Loan, tariff applications would have
been filed by ICE (and CNFL) sufficient to achieve the
9 percent return for ICE (and satisfy CNFL's concession
agreement) in 1980-81 (para. 47);
(f)  Before declaring the loan effective, CNFL's tariff increases
would have been approved (para. 47); and
(g)  As a condition for disbursement for the US$7.4 million of
the loan to be relent to CNFL and two municipal power dis-
tribution companies, the Bank would be furnished satisfactory
subsidiary loan agreements (para. 40).






RRD 14227
N I C  A R A G OA ~      ~      ~      A                                      o-C    C'07
>2'f/ Lb.-\4L}6e  A0 ESLV c>vA1 tJ I Lf A-
N<N> ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~l COC  -*                     t0y&L41 er'       N                                    CThOrO
C         /-                >'QC' 7-b                        NICA         AGJ             K <.a1J*                      }lP,.        2A                                  i  ~ 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                                                              J!oNMM .\ r\A Lz   LA9
- - ~~~~~ f e.9 S \ ~~~~~~H E RED A \'r/ rC<f '~
( o.< \ /          C                          QNeadc /. \ > L I                           I ( ) N
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~7>                                                                "k3 '>~oo 0 < pa                                                o
too-c  0\ ALA   I EtAI                                                           N
Cg,  <0                      HEPEDA    \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P: N    A 
,~~~~~2~ ~                                                TAARAEAAS A<            -                                                       , >l +    : 
I.   to MXoo;   00PC                                                           0<?.,   >n>,:\C
COSTA RICA 
[                      ~~~SIXTH POWER PROJECT'    .b     
=~                                                                                       PUN        =oNNA-  -   .
:tWXEP PtANT7;-5 -   
_L SSEJTATrM  - F   ENDED          -         AS
SITH POWl    RIERPRJEC T P                                                                          .. C
I                                _  _ ltqibB~~~~~~-4*NAIIONAL BOLNFDr\RIE~S
TPANAMooOCN I NEC                                          Eo,oo                          N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7, 
-- -_ e            ,C,oAFCF '.                                                                        ,
200 -oohi'                                                                                                                     ''O   C.
*        Cd7                                                                                   a;~raMww ,  0 r . m .
*  ear                          heooCOawf                                                                                   .
* ~ ~~    ~            ~ *3 0IBTTCI''                                                                      '



