The World Baik
FOR 0 cIL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Repwt N. P-561 7-PAN
Report No. P- 5617-PAN Type: (PR)
BAUA, Y. / X38725 / 1-8139/ LAC2C2
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESID   OF E
INT4TATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMNT
TO THE
EXECTIVE DIRECTORS
ON  A
PROPOSED ECONOMC RECOVERY LOAN (ERL)
OF US$120 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
JANUARY 30, 1992
Ti* d    shs a ritd distibuon and way be used by b eale   ny tihe perfomne of
d.  ~offcidal deies. ts cotet may "ot o6te9w   be disloed Wiht W    Bank athorization.



CURRENCY ECUIVALENT
Currency Unit   Balboa (3/.)
USS    51/.1
Note: The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins. The U.S. dollar (US$) is
accepted as de facto legal tender.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSAEY OF ABBREVIAT_ONS
APN     -    Autoridad Portuaria Nacional
(National Port Authority)
BDA     -    Banco de Desarrollo Agricola
(Agricultural Development Bank)
BHN     -    Banco Hipatecario Nacional
(National Mortgage Bank)
BLADEX  -    Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones
(Latin American Export Bank)
BNP     -    Banco Nacional de Panama
(National Bank of Panama)
CA      -    Caja de Ahorros
(Savings Bank)
CACM    -    Central American Common Market
CBN     -    Comisi6n Bancaria Nacional
(National Banking Commission)
CCFF    -    Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility
CEM     -    Country Economic Memorandum
CFZ     -    Colon Free Zone
CIF     -    Cost, Insurance, and Freight
CIT     -    Corporate Income Tax
COBANA  -    Compafiia Bananera Nacional
(National Banana Company)
COBAPA  -    Corporacion Bananera del Pacifico
(Pacific Banana Corporation)
CSS     -    Caja de Seguro Social
(Social Security Agency)
EEC     -    European Economic Community
ERL     -    Economic Recovery Loan
ESW     -    Economic and Sector Work
FMP     -    IMF-Monitored Program
FOB     -    Free-On-Board
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
ICOR    -    Incremental Capital-Output Ratio
IDAAN   -    Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales
(National Water and Sewerage Institute)
IDB     -    Inter-American Development Bank
IFARHU  -    Instituto para el Fomento y Adiestramiento de los Recursos
Humanos
(Human Resources Development Institute)
1FI     -    International Financial Institution



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
gOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS fcontinuedg
IMA     -    Instituto de MercadeQ Agropecuario
(Agricultural Marketing Institute)
iMF     -    International Monetary Fund
INTEL   -    Instituto Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
(National Telecommunications Institute)
PAT    -    Instituto Panameflo de Turismo
(Panamanian Tourism Institute)
IRHE    -    Instituto de Recureos Hidroelectricoo y Electrificacidn
(Hydroelectric and Electric Energy Resources Institute)
ISA     -    Instituto de Seguro Agricola
(Agricultural Crop Insurance Institute)
LRMC    -    Long-Run Marginal Cost
mICI    -   Ministerio de Comercio e Industria
(Ministry of Commerce arid Industry)
MIDA    -    Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development)
MIPPE   -    Ministerio de Planificacifn y Politica Econ6mica
(Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy)
M1VI    -    Ministerio de Vivienda
(Ministry of Housing)
MOH     -    Ministerio de Salud
(Ministry of Health)
OECF    -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
ORP     -    Oficina de Regulaci6n de Precios
(Price Regulation Office)
PIT     -    Personal Income Tax
PSE     -    Public Sector Enterprises
REFPAN  -    Refineria de Panama, S.A.
(Refinery of Panama, Inc.)
SAL     -    Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL   -    Sectoral Adjustment Loan
SITC    -    Standard International Trade Classification
SOE     -    Statement of Expenditurss
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
USAID   -    U.S. Agency for International Development
VAT     -    Value-Added Tax
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients o -'v tlbr performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ba.nk authorization.






TALEL Or CONTSWTS
L4AN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
PART I   -   THE ECONOMY AND BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY   . . . . .
A. Backgrouad. * * . . . . . .    . . . .  .               1
B. Developments in 1989-91  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
C. Recent Macroeconomic Performance   . . . . . . . .  . .   3
D. Government Development Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
S. Bank Country Assistance Strategy   . . . . . . . . . .   6
PART II  -   THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM, 1991-93  . . . . 10
A. Reform of the Public Sector and Privatization Program  . 10
B. Public Investment Program  . . . ..... . . ... . . 17
C. Tax Reform   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
D. Trade Reform   ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
S. Domestic Deregulation   ........ ...              .
F. Reform of the Social Security System   . . . . . . . . . 27
G. Reform of the Financial Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
H. Social Sector Reform   ............ .                .32
PART III -   MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS, EXTERNAL FINANCING NEEDS, AND
CREDITWORTHINESS   . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
PART IV  -   THE PROPosED LOAN . . . .             . . . . . . . . . 36
A. Background      . . . . . . . .   . . .    . . . .  . . 36
B. ConJitions for Tranche Releases. . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
C. Procurement, Auditing, Retroactive Financing, and
Special Account  .4..9.9.9.9... 41
D.  Tranching, Disbursement, and Closing Date  . . . . . . . 42
S.  Technical Assistance  4.......         .  .....  .43
F.  The Study of Viable Options for the Canal  . . . . . .  44
G.  Program Benefits and Risks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
H.  Relations with External Creditors  . . . . . . . . . . . 46
PARTV    -   IBRD/IMSF/IDB COLLABORATION   ................47
PART VI  -   R1COMMENDATION                     . . . . . . . .          48
Annex   I  Arrears Clearance
Annex  II  CSP Tables
Annex III  Attachments
i.  Financial Program for the Non-Financial Public Sector, 1990-93
ii.  Financial Program for the General Government, 1991-93
iii.  Public sector Employment Reduction Program



iv.   Public Waje Bill Targets, 1991-93
V.   Financial Program for Public Enterprises, 1990-93
vi. Principles of Public Utility Pricing and Petroleum Pricing
vii.   Government'  Privatization Program
viii.   Public Investment Program, 1991-93
ix.   Agricultural Tariff Reduction Program
x.   Xey Actions Planned to Restructure Public Sector sanks and Terms
of Reference for the Study of Agricultural Development Bank (BDA)
xi.   Financial sector Issues
xii.   Nutrition Assistance Program
xiii.   Projected Financing Requirements
xiv.  Technical Assistance Program
xv.  Techniical Assistance for Regulation of the Telecommunications
Sector
xvi.   Study of Options to Reduce Health-Care Costs for CSS
xvii.   Study of Government Complementary Pension Scheme
xviii.   Statement of IBRD Loans
xix.   Statement of IFC Investments
Annex  IV   Letter of Development Policy
Annex    V   Matrix of Policy Action
Annex   VI   Social Indicators
Annex VII   Supplemental Loan Data Sheet



LOAN AND P BRAMA  S'IMM
Republic of Panama
Amount:                  US$120 million equivalent
Te maa                   Standard IBRD terms with repayments in 17 years and 5
years of gra.ce.
Executina Aaencv:        Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (MIPPE).
pncr-ijtions             The proposed loan would support the Government's
Economic Recovery Program, which is designed tot
(i) encourage sustained economic growth by raising
public investment, and by increasing private sector
efficiency through trade and tax reforms; and (ii)
help stabilize public sector finances by reducing the
public wage bill and eliminating the social security
system's cash defic.t in no more than 10 years.
Wenefitss                Implementation of the Economic Recovery Program would
promote economic growth by ensuring stabilization of
public finances, and by increasing the efficiency of
the private sector through trade reform and of the
public sector through public sector reform. It would
also increase employment opportunities in the private
sector and help alleviate poverty. In addition, it
would facilitate the flow of external financing and
foreign investment.
Risks:                   The principal risks are weaknesses in institutional
capacity to implement the program, and possible
opposition by interest groups to trade reform and to
retrenchment in public employment.
Disbursements:           The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in three
tranches of US$60 million, US$25 million and US$33.2
million, respectively, as follows: the first tranche
upon effectiveness (with retroactive financing of up
to US$60.2 million for aligible imports made after
September 1, 1990), the second tranche after a
satisfactory performance review expected in the third
quarter of 1992, and the third tranche after a
satisfactory performance review expected in July 1993.
In addition, US$1.8 million for technical assistance
would be available upon loan effectiveness.
ADpraigal Renort:        This is a combined staff appraisal and President's
Report.



D sEENAIooAL MuN  Mgs ARCOMMMMCTXN- AN Z VtLM
REPORT =ND AECIn#MNDaSION Or TMB PRESIDENT OF TE IBiD
MR gEB EXECUTIVE DiRECTORS ON
A PROPOSD ECOgOMIC RlCOVERY OAM
fo SU  REUBLIC OP 
1.        I submit the following rep*rt and recommendation on a proposed
Economic Recovery Loan (ERL) in the amount of US$120 million to the Republic
of Panama. The loan would be on standard IBRD terms, with repayment in 17
years, and a 5-year grace period. The loan would support the Government's
economic recovery program, which aims to achieve economic stabilization and
renewed eustalnable economic growth.  This would be the first loan to Panama
since 1986. The proposed operation would be cofinanced by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), and the Japanese Government aid agency (OECF), with
US$120 million and US$100 million, respectively.
T   1CONY AJID JANR ASSXISTANCE   R!EY
2.        The assessment of the Panamanian economy in this report draws on
the work of the February 1991 pre-appraisal, the June 1991 appraisal, and the
October 1991 and January 1992 post-appraisal missions for the proposed ERL.
Annex II presents economic data. This report outlines the Government's
economic adjustment program -- a program that should create substantial
benefits but that, given Panama's changing domestic political situation, also
involves high risks.
A.  ALtZgM=
3.        After a period of economic and political upheaval, the Government
of Panama aims to return the country to a path of sustained economic growth.
Traditionally, Panama's location has been important to its economic
development. Strategically situated on the narrow isthmus joining North and
South America and midway between Europe and Asia, Panama was an important
center for Spanish colonial trade for more than two centuries. Construction
of the Panama Canal early in this century provided an important source of
income, employment, and economic growth until the early 1970.. capitalizing
on their location and international transport facilities, Panamanians built an
important export-oriented service sector. The main areas of expansion in the
late 19708 and the early 1980s were tourism, international trade, and
international banking. During the 1970s, the banking sector grew by 11
percent a year. By 1990, about 130 commercial banks were established in
Panama, including subsidiaries of most leading international financial
institutions. The activities of the Colon Free Trade Zone -- warehousing,
displaying, and transshipping merchandise mainly to markets in Latin America -
- also grew significantly in the 1970. and 1980s.
4.        Growth of export-oriented services has been facilitated by Panama's
unique financial characteristics. Panama has no central bank, the U.S. dollar
is de facto legal tender, and there is no restriction on the movement of



-2-
capital. Because of the dollar standard, there is no foreign exchange
const'aint in the conventional sense, so the country's creditworthiness is
linked dlrectly to public sector finances.
5.        Over tho past two decades, Panamanian administrations managed the
economy through increasingly interventionist policles. These interventions
included heavy protection of industry and agriculture, thc introduction of a
rigid labor code in 1972, the nationalization of private utility companies,
and the creation of many public enterprises. The country cannot devalue its
currency, since the U.S. dollar is the de facto legal tender, so the
inflexibility of prices for goods and services that was created throu2h state
intervention reduced economic efficiency, decreased Panama's international
competitiveness, and restrained s:owth potential, including export growth.
The incentive system encourages activities in which Panama does not have a
comparative advantage. The result has been production of high-priced goods
and services and reduced ability to provide employment to a growing labor
force. Moreover, the vested interests that resulted from this web of
distortions created a strong lobby against reform.
6.        Other factors have reduced growth potential and have increased
financial and economic imbalances. First, the tax syrtem discourages private
investment, work, and savings, and encourages tax cvasion. Second, financial
imbalances in the social security system have become more severe over the
years and high payroll taxes have discouraged employment. Third, the low
level of public investment, especially in infrastructure (such as transport,
energy, and social services), has made it difficult to resume sustained
economic growth. Fourth, the technical insolvency of most public banks crowds
out financing for private investment. Finally, prudential regulations are
outdated and banking supervision is weak, which makes it difficult for the
National Banking Commission to effectively supervise the financial system.
7.        Paradoxically, Panama's monetary regime requires great price and
wage flexibility to effect adjustments, but existing rigid price controls,
labor laws, and other public sector interventions prevent mobility of
resources. In the past, the resulting high unemployment was usually absorbed
by the expanding public sector. In the 1970., for example, the public sector
created 70 percent of all new jobs. The high cost of excessive public
employment and public sector inefficiency was passed on to the private sector
in the form of high user charges and the reduced ability to finance needed
infrastructure investments. The costs of industrial inputs increased,
reducing the number of jobs available and eroding Panama's international
competitiveness.
8.        After 1982, the country's debt burden continued to mount as
economic growth slowed. Major structural issues remained unaddressed, and
public spending and the size of the public sector continued to expand. After
the economic recovery of 1984-87, a major confrontation with the United States
in 1988-89 sharply reduced revenue from the Canal and from t'.S.-owned
corporations. As a result, the Government reduced public spending and arrears
on the public debt, and Panama experienced a major recession between 1987 and
1989. Unemployment climbed to over 20 percent. Domestic inflation was kept



at historically low levels (in the -0.2 percent to 4.2 nercent range during
1982-90), however, because the U.S. dollar continued to be used as de facto
legal tender.
so DisiEoRmENT IN 1289-91
9.        The new government that came to power after the U.S. military
action o. December 1989 has made efforts to -liminate the corrur'tion prevalent
under the prior regime. It established a new police force to restore law and
order and has undertaken a major fiscal adjustment. The public sector deficit
was reduced from 11.3 percent of the gross domestic product (GDP) in 1989 to 3
percent in 1990 and 2.7 percent in 1991. The Government also focused on
resuming payment of the arrears on the public domestic debt. Since April
1990, debts falling due to the international financial institutions (TFIs)
have been paid.  Arrears to IFIs (i.e., IBRD, I3F, and IDB) are being cleared
(see para. 29), and discussions have begun on the rescheduling of debts to
bilateral creditors and to money center commercial banks. By the end of
December 1991, the Government had made payments totaling US$471 million to the
three IFIs, including US$153.5 million to the Bank. Economic assistance from
the United States has included US$50 million in emergency assistance t^ repair
damage caused by the military action. After providing emergency assistance,
the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) approved an aid package
of US$420 million. The aid will finance public investment and technical
assistance to the Government, supply credit to the private sector, and support
the clearance of arrears to the three IFIs.
10.       Progress has been slow on preparation and implementation of
structural adjustment measures. The Government had to develop a domestic
policy agenda while introducing initial measures to stabilize the economy.
Priority was given to establishing law and order after the .S. military
action and subsequent incidence of looting, and to building a foundation for
the democratic system now in place. Frustrated government efforts to find a
national consensus for the reform proposals have prolonged the design and
implementation of a stabilization and a structural adjustment program.
Panama's President asked the Christian Democratic Party to leave the
Government in late March 1991, and the remaining two-party coalition does not
have a congressional majority. Nevertheless, the Christian Democrats have
been generally supportive of the Government's reform program, including the
recent approval by the National Assembly of key pieces of adjustment
legislation, such as a tax reform law and a comprehensive social security
reform law (see paras. 63 and 95).
C. RECENT MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
11.       In 1988 and 1989, real GDP declined by a total of 16.3 percent.
Real output fell below the 1980 level, and real per capita output fell below
that of 1978. The reduction of output reflected not only the impact of U.S.
economic sanctions but also the deep structural distortions and economic
disruptions experienced by the previous government. The poor policies of



- 4 -
previous administrations exacerbated the decline. Neglect of mainten&nce and
reduced investment, esp2cially for infrastructure, caused the country's
capital stock to deteriorate. H4owever, the economy started to recover in
1990, with a real output growing by 3.4 percent. This trend continued through
1991, with an estimated real GDP growth of 4.5 percent, because of increased
use of excess capacity in the economy. Construction, growing at 24 percent
after the reactivation of projects halted during the previous two years,
provided the main source cf stimulus in 1990. Construction continued to grow
in 1991. The level of activity wae about 30 percent below the 1987 level. In
1990, manufacturing expanded 7.2 percent and commerce by 9.4 percent, mainly
through inventory replenishment. Agricultural growth reached 3.3 percent.
Banana and sugar production -- the latter reflecting reinstatement of the U.S.
quota -- increased by 10.7 percent and 6.1 percent, respectively. In 1990,
the activities of the Colon Free Trade Zone grew by 15 percent, as economic
conditions in parts of Latin America (the zone's main client) improved. Oil
pipeline revenues fell, however, and government services and canal-relatu,d
activities stagnated.
12.       As a result primarily of prlvate investment recovery, total investment
jumped from 2.6 percent of GDP in 1989 to 16.3 percent in 1990 (Table 1). The
replenishment of inventories contributed partly to this increased investment.
Public investment rose from 1.3 percent of GDP in 1990 to 2.4 percent in 1991.
However, total investment was lower in 1991 than in 1990, as inventory
accumulation slowed down.  Public consumption in 1991 remained at about the 1990
level of 21.6 percent of GDP.
Tabte 1: Selected Mncroegonomic Variables. 1986-91
Maero Indicators                1986    1987      1988    1q89    19901'  1,911
Real GDP growth rate (X)         3.4      2.3     -15.6   -0.9     3.4   4.5
Real export growth rate (X)     -4.0    -2.0       -9.2   -0.7     1.9   7.7
Real import growth rate (X)     -11.6     0.0     -34.5   14.7    30.7   7.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP (X)  16.7    17.5    6.9   2.6       16.3  14.2
Public investment                4.1      3.6      2.3    1.8      1.3   2.4
Private Investment               12.6    13.9      4.6    0.9    15.0  11.8
Current account balance/GOP MX)  0.8    -0.3       7.1   -1.0    -8.7  -6.9
Domestic inflation CX)           0.4      0.9      0.3   *0.2      1.1   1.5
1. Preliminary.
2 Estimated.
Sources Panamanian Controller's Office, IMF, Bank staff estimates.
13.        Investment recovery and increased private capital inflows caused a
surge in imports in 1990. Imports of goods and nonfactor services reached an
estimated 37.3 percent of GDP in 1990, compared to an annual average of 31.2
percent in 1986-87. Expanded banana and sugar exports did not compensate fully
for the surge in imports. The resource balance, which recorded a surplus of 9.5



- s -
percent of GDP in 1989, declined to a surplus of 1.2 in 1990. As imports have
decreased to more normal levels in 1991, the currert accoint deficit -- excluding
official tranefers -- has declined. The 1990 deficit in the current account of
the balance of payments, which was 8.7 percent of GDP, is projected to drop to
6.9 percent in 1992.
14.         in 1990, financing of the current accouat deficit came from official
grants (US$183 million), net direct foreign investment (US$S4 million), the
release of funds blocked by the United States (US$181 million), and the
accumulation of arrears owed to international money center commercial banks and
bilateral creditors. In 1991, official grants (US$194 million), net d:rect
foreign investment (US$62 million), and the additional accumulation of arrears to
international money center commercial banks and bilateral creditors financed the
current account deficit. In 1992, projected debt service payments will equal
26.9 percent of exports of goods and services because of sizeable amortization
obligations and the payment of arrears to the three IFIs.
n, G DEVxYuLP!YO!MT. SC.ERA=
15.         The present Government has undertaker important stabilization
measures. First, fiscal adjustment has reduced the public sector deficit
significantly from 11.5 percent of GDP in 1989 to 3 percent in 1990 and 2.7
percent in 1991. The Government has complied with the targets of the September
1990 IMF-monitored program, partly by reducing the public wage bill. Second, the
Government has designed a realistic public investment program for 1991-9S3.
Third, it has successfully lifted deposit restrictions on the banking system,
thus enhancing confidence in the banking system, increasing the liquidity of
banks, and permitting an expansion of credit. Moreover, private investment
recovered in 1990 and the economy began to grow. The Government was slow,
however, in formulating a comprehensive and consistent structural adjustment
program. The Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (MIPPE) prepared a
strategy paper for growth and economic modernization in June 1990, which was
widely debated in the country. In September 1990, this strategy paper, together
with a matrix summarizing policy intentions, was approved by the Cabinet as the
Government's policy program. These documents outlined overall policy intentions,
but did not indicate specific actions or timing in most areas.
16.         The Bank initiated a close dialogue with the authorities soon after
the new Government took office, and in 1991 significant progress was made toward
defining a structural adjustment program. This program, described in Part 1I, is
based mostly on Government proposals made during a pre-appraisal mission in
February 1991. Further progress was achieved during the visit of high level
Government officials to Washington in May 1991. Subsequently, the Cabinet
unanimously approved an adjustment program that included trade reform,
privatization (for example, of the telephone company), reduced public current
expenditures, tax reform, and social security reforms. On the basis of this
program, appraisal of the ERL took place in June 1991. The Government published
its detailed policy program, with a calendar of actions, in October 1991.



17.         Implementation of the economic reform program is expected to change
the structure of the Panamanian economy significantly in the 1990s. Trade
liberalization and improved productivity should lncrease the country's
internatlonal competltlveness. The planned changes should also shift the balance
of incentlves in favor of exportables and importables over nontradables, and
should encourage private sector specializatlon ln accordance with Panama's
comparative advantage. Public sector reforms aim at ensuring the stabillzatlon
of public sector finances, reduced size of the state, decreased publlc utility
prices, and increased efficiency of the public sector.
E. BANK COUNIRY ASSISTANCB STRATEGY
18.        Past operations.  Since 1953, Panama has received 32 Bank loans
totaling US$SS05.6 million equivalent, net of cancellatLons. All loans are fully
disbursed. The second tranche of Structural Adjustment Loan II (SAL II) was
canceled in December 1987, since the Government did not meet agreed
conditionality. No new loans have been approved since 1986. To date, the
Government has repaid the Bank US$219.5 million equivalent, and has an
outstLnding obligation of US$505.6 million as of December 31, 1991.
19.        Until the early 1980s, the Bank lent actively in several sectors,
including power, urban development, ports and other infrastructure, and, to a
lesser extent, agriculture and livestock. As the economic and financial
situation deteriorated in the early 1980s, Bank support shifted to helping the
Panamanian authorities design and implement programs of structural adjustment to
reduce the public sector deficit, address economic distortlons, and open up the
economy. (Table 2 summarizes Bank lending by sector in 1953-86.)
20.        The Bank made two structural adjustment loans (SAL I & II) to Panama.
Under the Bank's first structural adjustment loan (SAL I 1983, US$60 million)
Panama lifted some export restrictions and price controls, shifted from quotas to
Lmport tariffs for a variety of industrial goods, privatized one hotel and a
sugar mill, and closed a public development bank, among other things. SAL II
(1986, US$100 million) aimed at deepening the reforms started under SAL I. A
number of import quotas were removed, the agricultural marketing agency's
functions were downscaled, five public sector entitles were closed or privatized,
the Labor Code was modified, and public employment was reduced. Because of
failure to reform the social security system, back-tracking in trade reform, and
general deterioration in economic management, the second tranche of SAL II was
not released. The design of the ERL benefitted from the analysis of failure of
the SAL It operation. Specifically, passage of key pieces of legislation,
including social security reform and tax reform, and key actions on trade reform
were made Board conditions. When dlsbursements were suspended (November 1987),
Panama's total outstanding debt to the Bank was US$470 million, with arrears
equal to aLout US$217 million. By mid-January 1992, arrears payable to the three
IFIs were US$657.8 million (of which US$254.6 million to the IMF, US$225.8
million to the Bank, and US$172.6 million to IDB), including US$S57 million owed
from the firet quarter of 1990. Arrears to IFM totalled US$4.8 million. Total
arrears on debt payments, including those to international money center
commercial banks, amounted to about US$3.5 billion at end 1991.



- 7 -
Table 2t Bank Lendina by Sector- 1953-86"
Amount         Distribution     Number of
sectors             (US$ million)       (percent)       projects
Energy                  187.2               37                9
Transport                97.8                19               7
Water/urban              50.1                10               3
Agriculture and fishing  35.0                7                8
Credit operatione        21.0                4                2
Structural adjustment   114.5              -23
Total                    05.6 
Disbursed amounts.
21.        Country assistance strategy.  The Bank's strategy for Panama aims
to help the country implement policies to open up the economy, reduce the size
of the state, and increase efficiency. In this respect, future Bank
assistance to Panama depends on successful implementation of the proposed ERL.
The instruments of the World Bank assistance strategy for 1992-96 include
lending (both policy-based and project assistance) and economic and sector
work (ESW). Beyond the proposed ERL, the Bank's lending strategy would help
Panama to continue its medium-term reform program by focusing on issues that
are not addressed or covered comprehensively by the ERL. Thus, the proposed
long-term strategy emphasizes well-focused sector adjustment lending
operations to consolidate and deepen reforms that will se started under the
proposed EML together with key investment lending operations. The planned
Dank assistance strategy would also focus on helping to address issues in
private sector development, in infrastructure, and in the social sectors. The
proposed ESW is designed to support this strategy. The proposed ERL would
address key economic distortions, and the agreed-upon IMF Standby and
Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility (see para. 134) would help the
Government reduce financial imbalances in the public sector.
22.         Bank lending procram.   Within the context of the proposed country
assistance strategy described above, proposed Bank lending to Panama in 1992-
96 would pursue the following main objectivess (1) addressing the remaining
policy distortions in trade, agriculture, and labor markets, thus setting the
stage for growth led by the private sector; (2) consolidating public sector
reforms; (3) improving the development of human capital; and (4) maintaining
and improving physical infrastructure.
23.        The fank's lending program of one to two operations annually for
1992-96 would cover both policy-based loan operations and project assistance.
The proposed yolicv-based ooerations could include lending fort  (1) publcl
sector manaaement, to help modernize the public sector, continue the
Government's privatization program that would be initiated under the proposed
ERL, and streamline the budget preparation process; (2) the transport sector,



- 8 -
to deregulate trucking, address issues in railways, and continue the
privatization of port operations, all of which are being addressed in part
under the proposed ERL; (3) further trade reform and the deregulatiOn of labor
magkets, to help the Government that assumes power in 1994 to reduce the
ceiling on import tariff rates to 20 percent and to implement a labor
deregulation program along the lines proposed by the World Bank; (4)
aducati2n, to strengthen the primary and secondary school systems and to
address the issues of cost recovery and curriculum modernization; and (5)
4alculture, to assist government efforts to stimulate sector productivity and
expand exports, and to deepen the reforms that would be initiated under the
proposed ERL.
24.        IThveptment project assistance could include a health and nutrition
gQoioct that would provide a cost-effective safety net for the vulnerable
groups in Panama and increase labor productivity. To address the
deterioration in infrastructure, Bank lending would focus on the
rehabilitation and expansion of priority investments in infrastructure,
including power, water and sanitation, and transoortation (especially roads).
25.         Cofinancina with the IpB and other donors would be sought for some
of the proposed operations, especially for policy-based loans. Eventually, as
the economy is deregulated and public enterprises are privatized, Bank lending
would shift toward supporting private sector activities in close cooperation
with the IFC (para. 30).
26.         Economic and sector work.  The planned ESW for 1992-96 will
concentrate on studies supporting planned operations, especially those that
are policy-based. A number of economic and sector studies was undertaken as
part of the preparation for the proposed ERL. In particular, studies on
agriculture, social security finances, tax system, labor deregulation issues,
and public sector finances were completed. To support the planned lending
program, sector reports on nublic ex2enditure and Public sector manaaement and
the transoort sector and a heal8h sector review will be prepared in 1992. A
tradeldereaulation study and a Country Economic Memorandum (CEMI will be
prepared in 1994 to support policy-based lending operations.
27.         Bank exposure.  The proposed lending program is based on the
assumption that the authorities will continue with their reform program. Up
to two-thirds of the proposed lending would be policy-based. Implementing the
proposed lending program would result in net positive flows from the Bank to
Panama. Debt service to the Bank would average about 16 percent of Panama's
total external debt obligations, while the stock of debt owed to the Bank as a
share of Panama's total external debt would increase from a projected 6
percent in 1992 to 9 percent in 1996. Successful implementation of the agreed
macroeconomic and fiscal program under the ERL will be vital for ensuring
country creditworthiness and timely debt service payments to the Bank (see
also Chapter III).
28.         Downside risks.  If Panama's political and/or economic situation
deteriorates, the Bank would have to limit its lending to a core program,
consisting of lending for social sectors and the maintenance of



-9- 9
infrastructure. Economic conditions that would trigger a lower lending program
include: (1) abandonment of an IMF program or lose of fiscal stability,
crucial for structural adjustment and growth; and (2) inability to reduce
public spending and/or abandonment of trade and deregulation reforms. In the
event of a complete breakdown of the economic program, political situation,
and domestic security, Bank lending would not be possible. The success of the
lending program in Panama depends mainly on the Government'e ability to
implement the agreed policy changes outlined in this report in a timely
fashion.
29.         Clearance of arrears.  A Panama Support Group with a mandate to
set up the clearance of arrears was chaired by the United States. Arrears to
all IFIs, totaling US$657.8 million, are being cleared (see Annex I for
sources and uses of funds for clearance of arrears to the IFIs). Since only
US$540 million (or US$410 million, if Panama's own resources in the escrow
account are excluded) of the arrears were subject to financing by the Support
Group, additional arrears arising from unpaid amounts in the first quarter of
1990 and valuation adjustments to the stock of arrears (US$95 million) are
being paid by the Panamanian Government. Additionally, the National Bank of
Panama (SNP) is providing two bridges of US$42 million and US$40 million to
the Panamanian Treasury for clearance of arrears. Disbursements from IDS and
Taiwan are expected to repay Panama's bridge loans. Support Group funds for
the clearance of arrears are coming from a variety of sources, including: (1)
funds returned to the Government of Panama that had been held in escrow by the
United States (US$130 million) and interest earnings on those funds (US$7
million); (2) an allocation from the USAID aid package (US$130 million); (3) a
US$40 million loan from Taiwan; (4) a US$3 million grant from the Government
of France; (5) two U.S. Treasury bridge loans of US$83 million and US$60
million, to be repaid through expected disbursements from IBRD (US$60 million)
and IMF (US$83 million); and (6) expected disbursements from IDB (US$60
million) and OECF (US$50 million).
30.         The International Finance Corporation.  The IFC has made five
investments in Panama. First, it extended an equity investment and a loan to
the Corporaci6n de Desarrollo Hotelero, S.A., to build an international hotel
in 1971. Second, in December 1978, the IFC lent to and acquired equity in
Vidrios Panamehos, S.A., a glass container factory. In 1986, the original
investment in Vidrios was sold and a standby loan was approved and later
canceled. The other investments were commitments made in 1979, 1985, and 1986
to acquire equity in and to lend to the Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones
(BLADEX), the Latin American Regional Export Credit Bank located in Panama.
IFC is presently appraising a small equity investment in a leasing company.
IFC plans to assist the Government in its privatization efforts and is
considering resuming equity investments and lending operations for efficient
private companies in sectors in which Panama has a comparative advantage.



- 10 -
PART II
TME OVERNMENT'S ECONOMISC RECOVERY PROGRAM - 1991-91
A.  Reform of the Publig 8ector and Privatization Proaram
31.         The immediate priority, to stabilize the economy by raising public
savings, requires further efforts to cut current public outlays. User charges
and the tax burden remain relatively high -- taxes and social security
contributions total over 21 percent of GDP -- and there is an urgent need to
expand public investment. In order to expand public savings, the Government
aims to reduce public current outlays.
32.         The macroeconomic/fiscal oroaram and oublic emplovment.  The
Panamanian public sector creates constant financial disequilibria and operates
inefficiently. Its share in the economy tripled in the last three decades to
more than 30 percent of GDP. Since the early 1970s, the public sector has
been considered the employer of last resort. Employment expanded regardless
of need or budgetary constraints. By the end of 1990, about 140,000 people
were employed in the public sector -- roughly one-fifth of Panama's total
employment.  Given Panama's budgetary constraints, the result has been a
squeeze on high priority spending (such as supplies, materials, and
equipment).
33.         The cornerstone of the macroeconomic/fiscal program for 1992-93 is
the planned reduction of public current expenditures needed to restore public
sector finances to a sustainable position in the medium term. (Table 3 and
Annex III, Attachment i, show the financial program planned for the
nonfinancial public sector.) The program corresponds with targets for the
agreed-upon 1992-93 IMF standby program and the Compensatory and Contingent
Financing Facility (see para. 134). The structure of spending should shift
significantly in 1991-93, as the public sector wage bill (i.e., excluding
National Bank of Panama and the Savings Bank) is planned to be reduced from
US$820 million in 1991 to US$765 million in 1993.
34.         The planned rise in public sector savings, from negative 1.8
percent of GODP in 1990 to a positive 2.3 percent of GDP in 1993, would permit
public investment to increase from 1.3 percent of GDP in 1990 (3.8 percent of
public spending) to 4 percent of GDP (about 11.8 percent of planned public
spending) by 1993. This increase in public investment is essential for
improving seriously deteriorated infrastructure. This shift in current
expenditures would be consistent with a shift in the genecal government's
savings from a negative 3 percent of GDP in 1990 to a negative 2.2 percent in
1992, and to a negative 0.5 percent in 19931/. (Annex III, Attachment ii,
;/ Without severance payments for public employment reduction, the savings
for 1991 would equal negative 1.6 percent and would approach zero in 1993.



- 11 -
shows the financlal program for the general governmentV for 1991-93.)
Current revenues of the general government are projected to average about 29.2
percent of GDP annually during 1991-93, slightly higher than the level
prevalling before the sharp drop of 1988-89.
Table 3: The Maeroeconomic1Fiscal Program. 1991-93
(as a percentage of GDP)
Actual           Prosr2m
19o     1991     1992    1993
Current revenues               30.7    31.6    32.5    32.2
Current expenditures           32.0    32.1    31.3    30.0
o/w: Wages and salaries       12.1    12.1    11.5    10.4
(w/o the bonus)         (12.0)   (11.9)   (10.8)   (9.7)
Transfers"                8.1      8.5     8.7     8.9
other agencies, net             -0.5     0.2     0.1      0.1
Current savinqs                 -1.8    -0.3     1.4      2.3
Capital revenues                0.0      0.0     0.0      5.3
Investment expenditures         1.3      2.4     4.0      4.0
Overatl balance                -3.0    -2.7    -2.6       3.6
Nemuoran4um Items:
(Millions of US$)
Public wage bill
with the bonusm              778.8   820.0   820.0   765.0
without the bonus                     800.0   765.0   714.0
Central government           412.0   433.0   415.0   398.0
Public enterprises           135.0   134.0   126.0      n.o
i/ Includes severance payments.
2/ Bonus means the thirteenth-month salary for the public workforco
(see para. 35).
Sougce: MIPPE, IMF, and Bank staff estimates.
35.          To increase public sector savings, the Government lnitlated a
program to reduce current public outlays. Consolidated current outlays of the
nonfinancial public sector were reduced by 2.1 percentage points of GDP in
1990. By March 31, 1991, net employment was reduced by 8,400 positlons,
salaries for aew positions decreased by 10 percent, the pubiic wage bill was
cut 7 percent, and the Government maintained its suspension of the thirteenth-
month salary bonus for public employees until October 1991. However, in
3] General government lncludes the central government, CSS, BDA, BHN, IMA,
IFARHU, and the University of Panama.



- 12 -
October 1991, the Supreme Court of Justice ruled the suspension of the
thirteenth-month salary bonus unconstitutional. As a result, public wages and
salaries increased by US$20 million (one-third of the bonus was paid) in 1991,
and will rise US$55 in 1992, and US$51 million in 1993. For 1991, the public
wage bill is an estimated US$820 million, including the thirteenth-month
salary bonus. Under the proposed ERL, it was agreed that the public wage bill
will not exceed US$820 million in 1992 and USS765 million in 1993 (paras.
116(1), 117(1), and 118(1)).
36.         Consistent with the targets set by the 1990 IMF-monitored program
and the agreed-upon 1992-93 IMF standby program and Compensatory and
Contingent Financing Facility (see para. 134), the Government plans to further
reduce current public outlays from 32 percent of GDP in 1990 to about 30
percent in 1993. To achieve this target, the public wage bill, including the
thirteenth-month salary bonus, will be maintained in 1992 at the estimated
1991 level and will be 6.7 percent lower in nominal terms in 1993 than in
1991-92. To reduce the wage bill, Government introduced several mechanisms in
1991. These include freezing vacancies that existed as of March 31, 1991,
initiating voluntary separation packages for public employees with severance
payments, not filling all posts that are planned to be vacated during the
program period, and privatizing public enterprises.
37.         By implementing these measures, the Government expects to reduce
public employment by about 19,000 (or about 14 percent) by the end of the
reform program to be supported under the proposed ERL. To compensate
partially for the cost of the thirteenth-month salary, the public employment
reduction program may need to be accelerated and extended to 1994. (Annex
III, Attachment iii, shows the expected public ..mployment reduction.) The
projected cuts in public employment will reduce the public wage bill to
targeted levels. Annex III, Attachment iv, shows quarterly targets that will
be used to monitor and confirm compliance with the program before each tranche
release. The Government will prepare quarterly reports on its achievements of
targets and send them to the Bank on a regular basis no later than three
months after the end of each quarter.
38.         The program for restructuring the public sector aims to ensure
lasting job cuts. The Bank agreed with the Government on a financial program
for the public sector, with targets for increasing general government savings
and for reducing the public wage bill (para. 116(1)). In order to julge
compliance with the public finance targets for general governmeat savings and
public wage bill (conditions of second and third tranche release), the Bank
will review developments in the six months preceding each review (paras.
117(1) and 118(1)). Meeting program targets, and thus achieving savings
targets for the general government in nominal terms, will be conditions for
tranche releases (paras. 117(1) and 118(1)). The Bank will monitor and
confirm compliance with the targets for general government savings and public
wage bill cuts before each tranche release.
39.         Public sector entervriges (PSEs).  Public sector enterprises
operate inefficiently and have high levels of employment, salaries, benefits,
and receivables. Salaries in public sector enterprises are on average 50



- 13 -
percent higher than salaries in the private sector. Moreover, the Government
constrains efficient PSE operations by exercising excessive control, through a
parallel administration in key ministries and cumbersome procedures for
budgeting, execution, control, and procurement of goods and services.
Traditionally, the excessive costs of PSE services and products have been
passed along to consumers in the form of high user charges, undermining the
economy's international competitiveness.
40.         The inefficiency of the public enterprises responsible for
important infrastructure services -- especially power, water, telephone, and
port services -- remains a particular concern. PSEs accounted for about less
than one quarter of total public current spending during 1989-90. They,
however, produced operational surpluses, equalling an annual average 3.6
percent of GDP during the same period. Previous administrations treated these
enterprises as "cash cows." They confiscated *SE financial surpluses
arbitrarily, preventing PSEs from making vital investments. In 1989. public
enterprises transferred US$139 million to the central government. Reducing
current expenditures, improving the collection of accounts receivable, and
eliminating subsidies should enable public enterprises to catch up with needed
investments. These actions should also permit PSEs to continue transferring
to the central government a return on the government's equity and reduce
prices to consumers.
41.         Because Panama cannot use monetary and exchange rate policies,
decreased production costs, which are passed on to consumers in reduced user
charges, imply a real devaluation and thus increased international
competitiveness. Within the macroeconomic/fiscal program, increasing
efficiency and lowering prices are feasible objectives based on cost
reductions. The Panamanian Government prepared action plans for IRHE
(Hydroelectric and Energy Resources Institute) and IDAAN (National Water and
Sewerage Institute) to increase productivity and reduce employment, accounts
receivable, and non-technical losses. Management practices would be improved
by strengthening managerial responsibilities and accountability. These plans
also aim to privatize new capacity of IRHE and IDAAN, maintenance and security
services for IRHE, and meter reading and billing systems for IDAAN. Agreement
was reached with the Government on the content and timing of action plans
(para. 116(3)). Successful progress in implementing action plans for IRHE and
IDAAN and complying with the financial and operational efficiency targets in
the aforementioned action plans, are conditions of second and third tranche
release (paras. 117(4) and 118(3)).
42.         The content of the draft law on PSEs' procurement and budgetary
practices will be reviewed and discussed with the Government before second
tranche release and the Government plans to submit a proposal law to Congress
in March 1992. Passage of an enabling law, satisfactory to the Bank, will be
a condition for second tranche release, and implementation of the program will
be a condition for third tranche release (paras. 117(3) and 118(3)).
43.         As part of the program, the consolidated noninterest current
outlays of the nine public enterprises (IRHE, IDAAN, INTEL, APN, Cemento



- 14 -
Bayano, Victoria Sugar Mills, Zona Libre, IPAT, and Citricos de Chiriqui)
should not exceed US$308 million in 1992 and US$234 million in 199311I these
will be the conditions for second and third tranche release (paras. 117(4) and
118(3)). Annex III, Attachment v, summarizes the Government's financial
program for the public enterprises. Implementation of programs to privatize
IRHE and IDAAN's nonbasic services are conditions for second and third tranche
release (paras. 117(4) and 118(3)).
44.         The Bank agreed with the Government on the principles for pricing
public utilities and services (para. 116(3) and Annex III, Attachment vi).
Undertaking a study on pricing for telecommunications and ports and on
updating the long-run marginal cost study for electricity and agreement on an
action plan to move electricity prices toward long-run marginal costs are
conditions for second tranche release (para. 117(4)). IDB will fund the
studies for the pricing of electricity, water, telephone, and port services.
Implementing action plans for pricing of water, ports and telecommunications
servlces and introduction of steps toward more efficient pricing and a
rational tariff structure for electricity, based on the results of the
electricity pricing study, will be conditions for third tranche release (para.
118(3)). If the electricity pricing study shows that revenue collection has
been strengthened, nontechnical losses have been reduced, and costs have been
cut, then prices could be determined based on long-run marginal costs. Price
reductions, therefore, should not be a deterrent to investments in the power
sector under the agreed-upon public investment program (paras. 53-56). The
Government also agreed that IRHE's cash flow should cover financing costs.
45.         IRHE (Instituto de Recursos Hidroelectricos v El' ctrificaci6n,
Hydroelectric and Electric Energy Resources Institute). Despite high
electricity tariffs, IRHE faces extremely difficult financial problems,
because of bad management practices and high operating costs. The high
operating costs resulted from overemployment, poor commercial practices, and
the corrupt practices of the previous government, among other things. The
average 1990 tariff equaled 11.7 US cents/kwh, 40 percent higher than the
long-run marginal cost. Moreover, IRHE's tariff structure is not based on
economic criteria and it subsidizes different consumer groups. The electric
power generation system has deteriorated over the past 5 years due to a lack
of spare parts and because scheduled maintenance was postponed. As a result,
one-third of thermal capacity is out of service, and the other units operate
on average at 32 percent of capacity. Maintenance of the transmission and
distribution systems has also been neglected and needed investments have been
deferred. Electricity losses now amount to 26 percent of net generation,
resulting in an annual revenue loss of US$34 million. To address these
problems, the Government prepared an action plan to strengthen the company's
finances and to improve its managerial practices. Successful progress in
implementing the agreed-upon action plan, including the compliance with
3/ The Government plans to privatize Cemento Bayano, Victoria Sugar Mills,
and Citricos de Chiriqui as part of its privatization program.



- 15 -
financial and operational efficiency targets, will be a condition for second
and third tranche release (paras. 117(4) and 118(3)). In order to comply with
the financial and operational efficiency targets, the main features of the
action plan include:
(1)   implementing measures to make labor more productive and to reduce
operating costs;
(2)   strengthening the company's finances by reducing current
expenditures, and improving revenue collectiorn$
(3)   taking steps to establish a regulatory framework for the
electricity sector, before second tranche release, that will help
ensure future private investments in the sector;
(4)   strengthening management practices; and
(5)   increasing IRHE's control over its operating budget, after
introducing improved management practices.
46.         IDAAN (Instituto de Acueductos v Alcantarillados Nacionales,
National Water and Sewerage Institute). IDAAN's problems include: inadequate
investments, overemployment, high operating costs, poor management practices,
and inadequate revenue collections. Abcut half of the water produced is
unaccounted for or "lost", mostly from unmetered consumption. Only 20 percent
of IDAAN's residential customers are metered and public enterprises generally
do not pay for water services. IDAAN has 11 staff members for each 1,000
water connections, while comparable water utilities in Latin America operate
with 6 to 7 staff for each 1,000 water connections.  To finance operations and
investments, IDAAN began to accumulate arrears on its obligations. Accounts
payable amounted to US$58 million at the erd of 1989. To address these
problems, the Government has prepared an action plan to improve the company's
financial and management practices (para. 116(3)). Progress in successfully
implementing the agreed-upon action plan, including compliance with the
financial and operational efficiency targets, will be a condition for second
and third tranche release (paras. 117(4) - 118(3)). Planned actions to comply
with the financial and operational efficiency targets include installing
meters to decrease water theft, improving revenue collection, decreasing
current outlays (partly by cutting employment), and giving the company both
administrative and financial autonomy by introducing managerial improvements.
47.         A   (Autoridad Portuaria Nacional, National Port Authority).
Panama has failed to economically exploit its geographically advantageous
ports. Poor management, overemployment, high operating costs that result in
high user charges, and inadequate maintenance have contributed to this
failure. APN services are perceived to be expensive, unreliable, and
inefficient. Freight rates to and from Panama are consistently higher than
those to and from major U.S. ports (and 30 percent higher than those of
Jamaica, a competing regional port), reflecting the higher cost of port
operations. Rates for container traffic in some APN ports are among the
highest in Latin America. As a result, some large container companies have



- 16 -
moved their hub operations away from PanLma to geographically lese
advantageous locations in the Caribbean.
48.         To promote trade and create employment opportunities, the
Government prepared a program to restructure the country's main ports. It is
also taking steps to improve efficiency and to reduce high costs in Cristobal
and Balboa. To achieve these objectives, the Government is finalizing an
action plan to transfer port operations, equipment, and services to the
private sector by means of concessions and leases awarded through a
transparent and competitive process. Bidding for the concessions and licenses
is expected to begin bofore June 1992. In addition, a promoter and developer
for the new port in Telefers Islands will be selected by mid-1992. The first
concession for a waterfront site will be provided by mid-1992. Similarly, the
Government has prepared plans for attracting private investment to other
Central Corridor ports, such as those in Bahia Las M.nas and Coco Solo. The
Bank agreed with the Government on an action plan to grant concessions to the
private sector for the ports of Balboa and Cristobal and the Cabinet approved
the APN's privatization plan (para. 116(4)). Satisfactory progress in
implementing the agreed-upon action plan is a condition for second and third
tranche release (paras. 117(5) - 118(4)).
49.         INTEL (Instituto Nacional de Telecomunicaciones, National
Telecommunications Institute). INTEL acts as both the operator and regulator
of telephone services. To maintain its monopoly position and to discourage
future competition, INTEL prohibits other companies from providing even the
complementary services that it does not offer (such as cellular telephones).
INTEL contributed nearly US$55 million of its 1990 sales revenue of US$165
million to the central government, making it by far the most f'nancially
profitable of the public enterprises. These large transfer payments were
achieved at a high cost to consumers, especially those who call overseas.
Excessive rates for international and long distance telephone services
subsidize the flat rate local service. In 1990, international service
revenues came to US$80 million, or about 50 percent of sales. INTEL's ratio
of 18 employees for each 1,000 lines reflects labor inefficiency. An
efficient company has 10 employees or fewer per 1,000 lines, and the ratio in
the United States is 4 employees per 1,000 lines. A flat salary structure
discourages the hiring of skilled technical staff, so faults per line and
fault repair time are twice as high as in efficient companies -- with an
average line installation period of 75 days. Although 47 percent of the lines
are digital, INTEL has done little to promote such technologies as touchtone
telephones. And INTEL does not provide card-operated public telephone or
credit cards because of government restrictions. The Government reform
program includes an action plan to privatize INTEL, restructure the
telecommunications sector, and introduce competition in the telecommunications
sector.
50.         INTEL's privatization program will require creating a regulatory
agency with the power to regulate tariffs, address public complaints, regulate
the interconnection of operators, and grant licenses for operating services.
The Bank agreed with the Government on INTEL's privatizatiorn program. The



- 17 -
Cabinet approved INTE8L's privatization plan, and in late 1991 the Government
established a technical unit at MIPPE to privatize INTEL (para. 116(4)).
Congressional approval of a law, satisfactory to the Bank, that would
restructure the telecommunications sector, create a regulatory authority for
telecommunications, and privatize INTEL, is a condition for second tranche
release (para. 117(5)). The establishment of a regulatory framework and of an
adequately staffed regulatory agency, along with satisfactory steps toward the
international selection of a prospective buyer for INTEL, are conditions for
third tranche release (para. 118(4)).
51.         Agreement was reached with the Government and IDB that the Bank
will closely supervise implementation of the program to privatize INTEL and
the provision of technical assistance for this purpose. The Bank agreed with
the Government on a tripartite arrangement between the Bank, IDB, and the
Government on coordinating the technical assistance to privatize INTEL (see
para. 124).
52.         Privati;ation.  Privatization is a strategic component of the
Government'"s economic recovery program. The Government has prepared a
privatization program to promote economic growth and to reduce the size of the
public sector. The Government submitted a draft framework privatization law
to the Panamanian Congress and the first congressional debate took place in
December 1991. The Government expects that the Congress will discuss and
approve the framework law in March 1992. The draft law was designed to
provide a framework that will enable the Executive Branch to privatize public
companies and other assets quickly and in a transparent manner. Passage of a
satisfactory framework privatization law after April 30, 1992, will be an
event of default (see para. 115). It was agreed at negotiations that the Bank
will have a right to prior review of all norms to be issued to ensure that
procedures for privatization are timely, efficient, and transparent. Issuance
of satisfactory norms is a condition of second tranche release (para. 117(5)).
Annex III, Attachment vii, lists the public companies that the Government
plans to privatize. The program also aims to transfer to the private sector
some nonbasic services and to privately fund expansion of IRHE and IDAAN
(paras. 41 and 43). The Government brought Air Panama and Citricos de
Chiriqui to the point of sale in late 1991. The Government also plans to sell
Cemento Bayano, COBANA, COBAPA, Victoria Sugar Mills, and ISA. Bringing the
rest of the public companies listed in Annex III, Attachment vii, to the point
where tender documents for bidding have been issued to private investors, or
offers have been solicited, is a condition for second tranche release (para.
117(5)). Finalizing sales transactions for at least three of the public
companies listed in Group A will be a cond'tion for third tranche release
(para. 118(4)).
S. PUBLIC ZNVESTHENm PROGRAM
53.         To address fiscal problems, earlier governments in Panama cut
capital spending sharply. As a result, public investment, which reached an
annual average of about 5 percent of GDP during 1984-87, declined to 1.8



- 18 -
percent of GDP in 1989. In 1987-89, even minimum maintenance was not carried
out. In spite of a slight increase in maintenance expenditures in 1991, the
need to rehabilitate highways, most schools, urban infrastructure, health care
posta, Tocumen airport, and IRHE installations remains urgent.
54.         The public investment program contemplates raising public
investment from &bout 1.3 percent of GDP in 1990 and 2.4 percent in 1991 to
4.0 percent annually both in 1992 and in 1993. About a third of the program
will address the expansion and maintenance needs of the power sector, and a
sixth will provide for transport sector rehabilitation. The program consists
of well-designed, high-priority projects. In 1992-93, financing for the
public investment program will come from increased public savings, the public
sector's accumulated cash surplus at the National Bank of Panama (BNP), and
expected disbursements from the multilateral financial institutions.
55.         Considering the amount of financing that will likely be available
and the implementation capacity of the public sector, the Government has
prepared a realistic public investment program that focuses on maintenance and
rehabilitatio.s. No less than three-fifths of the total investment program
will be allocated to power, transport, education, and health during the
program period. Agreement has been reached with the Government on the size
(as a share of GDP) and sectoral composition of the public investment program
(see Annex TII, Attachment viii; para. 116(2)); satisfactory compliance is a
condition for second and third tranche release (paras. 117(2) - 118(2)).
Before each tranche release, the Bank will review budget projections and
progress in executing the agreed-upon public investment program.
56.         The investment program for 1991-93 includes the following urgently
needed minimum investments:
(1)   in the IRHE, maintaining transmission and distribution lines;
(2) in the IRA, acquiring pumping equipment for several towns and
for the drinking water plant in Chilibre, and acquiring and
installing metering devices;
(3)   in the health sector, repairing health posts and hospitals and
acquiring high priority surgical, laboratory, and dental
equipment; 
(4)   in the Education Ministry, repairing school buildings and school
furniture; and
(5)   in the Ministry of Public Works, repairing key highways.
C. TMFax
57.         Tax reform is an important element of Panama's economic reform.
The tax system discourages investment and the use of labor and encourages tax
evasion. Generous tax exemptions and exclusions reduce revenues and place an



- 19 -
inequitable tax burden on some socioeconomic groups. The system is also
complicated and difficult to administer.
58.         The tax system's ability to generate adequate revenue is eroded by
such factors as a narrow tax base and a poor system of incentives and
exemptions. The low elasticity of the tax system means that tax revenues
respond very little to changes in GDP. The Government's reform program aims
to minimize disincentives to work, invest, and save and to ensure the revenue-
neutrality of the reform program.
59.         The corporate income tax ICITI.  Under the previous tax regime,
the CIT rate structure for companies located outside of the Colon Free Trade
Zone ranged from 20 to S0 percent. The progressive rate structure encouraged
companies to break up into smaller parts in order to avoid paying high
marginal tax rates. By restricting their operations for tax purposes,
companies misallocate resources. Some taxpayers report their personal income
under the lower CIT rate rather than under the higher personal income tax
(PIT) rate, leading to loss of revenues. The existence of several tax rates
and brackets increases administrative costs and needlessly complicates
procedures for an already overburdened tax administration.
60.         The cersonal income tax (PIT).  Prior to the reform of the tax
system in 1991, high marginal personal income tax rates discouraged
employment, investment, and savings and encouraged tax avoidance and evasion.
Marginal rates ranged from 2.5 percent to 56 percent in 20 different income
tax brackets, creating a false sense of vertical equity. Also, the level of
personal exemptions was not adjusted for inflation for many years, leading to
inequity for the poorest groups in Panama.
61.         The value-added tax (VAT).  This consumption tax, which excludes
services, has a narrow base that causes resource misallocation, reduces fiscal
revenues and is inequitable. The VAT rate of S percent is lower than rates in
other Latin American countries -- for example, 10 percent in Bolivia,
Colombia, and Costa Rica; 15 percent in Mexico; and 18 percent in Chile. In
1990, VAT collection on domestic transactions accounted for S percent of tax
revenue and only 0.6 percent of GDP. Panama's comparative advantage lies in
the service sector, so the VAT should be extended to services once the
country's economic distortions have been addressed and high user charges to
the service sector have been reduced. In the short-term, the Government
increased the VAT on alcoholic beverages and cigarettes, and raised other
charges and fees to ensure the revenue-neutrality of the tax reform mentioned
in para. 63.
62.         Tax incentives.  Panama has a vast array of tax incentives
designed to promote mining, tourism, construction, investment, industrial
production, nontraditional exports, regional economic development, the
production of agricultural commodities, and employment in the Colon Free Trade
Zone. These incentives sprang up in an ad hoc fashion over the years,
violating all sound fiscal criteria. They are costly (in revenue foregone),
complex, inefficient (in resource allocation), and inequitable, but no
estimates of their fiscal costs exist, either in terms of general or



- 20 -
individual incentives. The Government plans to reduce ta. icentives during
the program period supported by the proposed ERL.
63.         Congress approved a tax reform law, satisfactory to the Bank, in
December 1991 (para. 116(8)). This law reduces high marginal tax rates for
corporate and personal income taxes, simplifies the tax system, and reduces
the burden on poor groups. (Annex V, Matrix of Policy Action, page 5, shows
the tax reform program.) The tax reform law: (1) will reduce CIT by 1994 to
two ratess 34 percent for companies whose annual earnings exceed US$0.5
million and 30 percent for companies whose annual earnings are less than
US$0.5 million; (2) will reduce the marginal tax rate for the PIT, and will
narrow the spread of brackets from 2.5 to 56 percent to 4 to 30 percent in
1992; (3) reduces the number of taxable income brackets from 20 to 11; (4)
increases the value-added tax rate on beverages and cigarettes from 5 percent
to 10 percent and increases some charges and fees to make the tax reform
revenue-neutral; and (5) is more equitable to lower income earners (for
example, it raises exempt income to US$350 a month, personal exemption from
US$600 to US$800 a year, dependent allowance from US$150 to US$250 a year, and
the threshold for income taxation from US$1,000 to US$3,000 a year).
Satisfactory implementation of a program to reduce corporate and personal
income tax rates and to decrease the number of personal income tax br:ckets
are conditions for second and third tranche release (paras. 117(6) - 118(5)).
The Government will introduce the interim corporate income tax rate in 1992
(maximum rate 45 percent, minimum 27 percent as a condition for a second
tranche release (para. 117(6)). It will also introduce the interim targets
for 1993 (maximum rate 42 percent, minimum 30 percent), as a condition for
third tranche release (para. 118(5); see Table 4 below). The pace of
reducing the high marginal tax rate is too slow in order to avoid fiscal
losses in the first years of the tax reform, although tihe supply response
would be faster if the program were implemented in a shorter time.
Table 4: Reform of Corporate Tax
Tax rates                          Year
(in percentages)      1991      1992     1993     1994
Maximum rate           50       45       42        34
Minimum rate          20        27       30        30
D. TRADE REFORM
64.         Trade protection.  Panama's nominal tariff protection is the
highest and most widely dispersed in Central America. Before the introduction
of the first phase of the trade reform in August 1991, the average production-
weighted nominal protection equalled 51 percent for the whole economy, 57
percent for agriculture, and 50 percent for manufacturing. Dispersion in



- 21 -
nominal protection was greater than 100 percent of the average in all cases.
Given exemptions for goods not produced domestically -- most of them
industrial inputs and capital goods used by protected industries and agro-
industries -- effective protection is much higher than nominal protection.
High protection has led to high-priced goods and has discouraged the growth of
efficient export oriented firms. Hence, it has resulted in high unemployment.
High nominal protection also encourages smuggling. The Government has
recently decided to participate as an observer of the Central American
regional group. The five Central American Common Market (CACM) countries have
recently agreed to reduce the import tariff ceiling to 20 percent by 1993.
Therefore, the speed of tariff reform in Panama must accelerate if Panama is
to conform with the CACM countries and increase the efficiency of its domestic
economy.
65.         Current policies on trade and economic incentives -- in place for
two decades -- have directed agriculture and manufacturing production toward
import-substitution. In Panama's small domestic market, protection has
discriminated against the service sector, in which Panama enjoys a comparative
advantage. Moreover, exports represent only a 2-percent share of
manufacturing production, despite a battery of export incentives.
Agricultural exports, primarily traditional crops, have also been stagnant.
Because of high protection levels, the contribution of the industrial and
agricultural sectors to long-term growth has declined drastically.
66.         Because of slow growth in traditional financial services and
stagnation in canal-related activities, Panama must rely on the growth of its
most efficient tradable sectors, especially the service sector. Reducing
protection in industry and agriculture will help reduce costs and increase
economic efficiency. Excessive protection in import-substitution activities
should be phased out, and trade incentives for exports and imports should be
equalized. These changes should promote export-oriented development,
generating renewed and sustainable %rowth and employment.
67.         Trade liberalization.  The Government's trade liberalization
program aims to reduce the level and dispersion of effective and nominal
protection in 1991-93, by:
(1)   reducing the ceiling on import tariffs for industrial products to
60 percent and for agro-industrial products to 90 percent on
August 1, 1991 (para. 116(5)), and to 40 percent for industrial
products and 50 percent for agro-industrial products before third
tranche release (para. 118(6))i
(2)   eliminating all specific import tariff rates before the end of the
program period, supported by the proposed ERL, before third
tranche release (paras. 117(7) - 118(6)), (during the program
period of the proposed ERL, no new specific import tariff rates
will be introduced, except for on a limited number of agricultural
products, and those will also be eliminated before third tranche
release (para. 118(6))5



- 22 -
(3)   eliminating quantitative import restrictions (QRs) for
agricultural products and replacing them with tariff protection,
then, reducing these import tariff rates according to the program
presented in the Matrix of Policy Action (Annex V, page 7, and
Annex 1I1, Attachment ix, before each tranche release (paras.
116(5), 117(7), and 118(6));
(4)   increasing import tariffs to 5 percent for goods classified under
the Centro de Compras (i.e., tourist goods) on January 1, 1992,
and maintaining a 3-percent import tariff for industrial inputs
covered under Law 3 (paras. 116(5), 117(7), and 118(6));
(5)   unifying import tariff rates on inputs and final products in
agriculture (paras. 116(5) and 117(7)); and
(6)   eliminating all export restrictions (para. 116(5)).
68.         The fiscal impact of the planned trade reform is expected to be
revenue-neutral. The decline in revenues from reduced import tariffs is
expected to be offset by: (1) increased revenue from higher import tariffs for
goods classified under the Centro de Compras; and (2) the replacement of
quantitative import restrictions with import tariffs.
69.         Acricultural trade liberalization Program.  The previous
administrations' agricultural trade policies emphasized "food self-
sufficiency," inward looking development, state intervention in price
formation, and income transfers to producers through high prices and
subsidies. These policies did not yield the intended results; the sector has
grown slowly and food prices remain high. This has led to demands for
compensatory wage increases and has reduced Panama's international
competitiveness.
70.         The incentive system emphasizes self-sufficiency in rice, corn,
beans, and sorghum, and promotes the production of sugarcane, potatoes,
onions, chicken, eggs, and milk. High and nontransparent protection of
domestic agricultural production imposes high costs on the consumer and high
allocative costs in agricultural exports foregone (Annex III, Attachment ix,
pages 2 and 3 describe import tariff rates, quantitative import restrictions
(QRs) and price controls on key agricultural commodities). Import quotas for
agricultural goods prompt the use of quantitative restrictions for the
downstream users of agricultural inputs, leading to an array of wholesale and
retail price controls. Basic grains and their first transformations are
subject to import quotas, so wholesale and retail prices of basic goods
manufactured from them are then subject to domestic price controls. Dairy
products, as well as crude and refined vegetable oils, are subject to a
similar scheme of protection and controls.
71.         Panama's agricultural protection covers a small number of basic
grains and vegetables (accounting for about half of domestic agricultural
production) and meat products (representing about three-fifths of livestock).
Quotas and specific import tariff rates -- with steep ad-valorem equivalents



- 23 -
(about 700 percent on tomatoes, for example) -- usually amount to de facto
import prohibition. Panama has 65 tariff positions for agriculture under
import quotas and import permits, which accounts for about half of domestic
agricultural production.
72.         The Panamanian Government plans to open the agricultural sector
gradually to international competition. As a small country, Panama cannot
alter world agricultural prices. However, exposing agriculture to
international markets should allow consumers to benefit from low-priced
imported food products. Producers would then have an incentive to redirect
domestic production toward activities that are more profitable in world
markets. Thus, both consumers and producers would gain.
73.         The agricultural trade liberalization program will address trade
distortions and regulations. The Government announced its agricultural
liberalization program and initiated its implementation by eliminating export
restrictions and import and price controls. The Government also reduced the
import tariff rate to 30 percent for beef in late 1991 and eliminated domestic
price controls, quantitative import restrictions, and accompanying import
tariff reductions to 50 percent on vegetables (except for beans, potatoes,
onions, and tomatoes; para. 116(5)). Continuing to reduce import tariff rates
for agricultural products and eliminating QRs and price controls will be
conditions for second and third tranche releases (paras. 117(7) and 118(6)).
The Government will shift to a variable import tariff rate system for corn,
rice, and sorghum, with a maximum applicable rate, as a condition for second
tranche release. Implementing the agreed-upon reform program for agriculture
should shift resource allocation in favor of the country's comparative
advantages. The production of beef, some tropical fruits, and vegetables and
imports of basic grains are expected to expand, while consumer prices should
decline (except for beef meat, which would be exported). Since the production
of export crops is labor-intensive and food crop prices will probably decline,
agricultural liberalization should improve the real incomes of the poorest
groups in Panama.
E. DOMESTIC DEREGULATION
74.         Domestic deregulation should help to increase total factor
productivity and accelerate the supply response to trade reform. To make trade
reform more effective, the Government intends to introduce domestic
deregulation measures to increase labor mobility and flexibility, to reverse
the anti-labor bias of the tax regime, to free controlled domestic prices, and
to improve the efficiency and pricing of public services. The Government
plans to make the prices of petroleum derivatives internationally competitive
during the program period. The Government realizes that introducing trade
reform without domestic deregulation would not sufficiently improve resource
allocation in the economy.
75.         Price controls.  Price controls on various products are maintained
with the stated objective of protecting both consumers and producers. Most of
the price controls are for agricultural products. The Price Control



- 24 -
Commission, Oficina de Regulaci8n de Procios, and the producers and importers
negotiate to set prices. Controlled prices are revised at the request of
producers and importers. This cost-plus price-setting mechanism allows highly
inflated domestic prices because price-controlled products are shielded from
import competition through quotas and import permits. The Government has
begun a program to progressively remove many price controls. Since December
1990, the Government has lifted controls on many products, including
vegetables and other food items and some household goods, but controls remain
on many agricultural and pharmaceutical produfts. Price controls on
industrial and agricultural products will be phased out during the program
period (paras. 116(5), 117(7), and 118(6)). The planned conversion of the
price-setting institution into a consumer protection agency, Oficina de
Proteccifn al Consumidor, which will address consumer complaints and
disseminate information about prices and product quality, and amending
Decree 60, March 1969, accordingly, is a condition for third tranche release
(para. 118(6)). Eliminating price controls on industrial products covered
under Law 3 is a condition for second tranche release (para. 117(7)).
76.         Labor markets.  Overregulation of hiring and firing practices in
Panama's labor market seriously impairs job creation and mobility. Among
other things, government regulations: (1) require firms to obtain government
approval to reduce employment; (2) prohibit worker reallocation within the
same firm; and (3) mandate high nonwage costs as a share of basic wage costs,
including a long service bonus (1.92 percent), a thirteenth-month salary bonus
(9.09 percent), and a one-month vacation (11 percent). Also, Panama has three
taxes on labor: a social security tax (18 percent, of which 10.75 percent is
paid by the firm), insurance against professional risk (2.3 percent), and
education insurance (1.5 percent). Moreover, the legal requirement to close
firms during a strike threatens the financial viability of many private
enterprises.
77.         High overtime charges increase the cost of labor by 45 percent
over base pay. The minimum wage has raised and compressed the wage structure
and seems to inhibit the creation of jobs for unskilled labor. In the past,
the Government decreed general wage increases, unrelated to increases in
productivity. The so-called "lost wages" rule requires firms to pay dismissed
workers who appeal their dismissal the salaries they would have earned during
the appeal process had they remained with the firm -- whether they have found
new employment or not. Employee dismissal is also costly because of legal
procedural delays that cause uncertainty about the total cost of reducing
labor. These dismissal procedures have contributed to dampening demand for
labor and depressing domestic and foreign investment in Panama.
78.         Employment trends reflect this restrictive regulatory framework.
The unemployment rate more than doubled, from 8.8 percent in 1979 to 20
percent in 1990, partly because of the crisis of 1987-88, dropping to 16
percent in late 1991. (Some evidence suggests that informal employment,
mainly self-employment and employment in small firms and agriculture, has
grown faster than registered employment.) The economy's capacity to create
jobs has significantly declined in the past two decades and the public sector



- 25 -
has absorbed much of the new employment in the last decade. Increases in
labor costs and government intervention in the labor market have reduced the
private sector's demand for labor. Also, increases in wage costs have not
matched labor productivity growth, so Panama's international competitiveness
has declined. Planned trade reform and deregulation should improve domestic
productivity, but increases in wage costs should be contained go that Panama
does not become even less competitive in international markets.
79.         Indeed, containing wage increases is crucial to improving Panama's
economy. While abrogating the labor code would be too radical an approach to
attract popular support in Panama at this time, inaction in labor reform would
prevent a meaningful resource allocation in response to trade and other
deregulation reforms. The domestic deregulation program proposes to introduce
labor reform a step at a time. Given Panama's legal requirements, maintaining
minimum wages at current levels, while highly desirable, is not a formal
condition of tranche release. However, since Panama cannot effect nominal
devaluation, the Bank will closely monitor wage developments as a major
determinant of competitiveness as part of the overall supportive macroeconomic
framework (para. 115).
80.         Para. 21 of the Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV) refers to
the principles and objectives to be considered in determining any adjustment
of the minimum wages during the program period supported by the proposed ERL.
During negotiations, the Bank delegation recommended that any adjustment to
the minimum wages should reflect past cost-of-living increases, productivity
growth since the last adjustment in 1982, and international competitiveness as
measured by competitive labor costs.
81.         The Government has already introduced measures to reduce labor
costs and make labor markets more flexible. Government actLons introduced
since October 1990 include the following:
(1)    allowlng the Government to designate a third party to
arbitrate on work-related issues to expedite the resolution
of labor conflicts and prevent labor conflicts;
(2)    allowing automatic extension of collective bargaining
agreements for 1991-92;
(3)    extending the period of collective bargaining to 3 years
for newly established firms; and
(4)    establishing a tripartite committee (representing the
Government, labor, and management) to review labor
regulations that affect how labor markets operate.
82.         As part of its overall reform program, the Government is committed
to reducing labor costs and increasing the flexibility of the labor market.
Before Board Presentation of the proposed ERL, the Government announced its
labor deregulation program (para. 116(6)), which aims, among other things, to:



- 26 -
(1)    reduce the cost of dismissing employees for economic
reasons;
(2)    allow firms facing difficult economic and financial
problems to use a workable mechanism for modifying labor
constraints;
(3)    allow operation of private employment agencies; and
(4)    shorten the time permitted for the Ministry of Labor to
process labor regulations.
83.         In addition to the program mentioned above, it is vital that the
next stage of reform be deepened to deregulate labor markets and make them
more flexible and to reduce labor costs so that resource allocation can
improve in response to structural reform. Based on the recommendations of a
study carried out for the appraisal of the proposed ERL, the next stage of
labor deregulation should include: (1) eliminating required government
approval for reducing the labor force; (2) permitting firms to shift workers
within the same firm without government approval; (3) limiting payment for
overtime; (4) limiting compensation for "lost wages"; (5) restricting
compensation for dismissals without a legal justification; and (6) allowing
firms to operate during a strike.
84.         Petroleum prices.  Oil prices above international levels inhibit
Panama's international competitiveness. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry
(MICI) determines petroleum prices, subsidies, and margins for all products
except bunker and jet fuels. It also calculates the insurance and freight
cost (CIF) of fuels imported by Refineria de Panama, S.A. (REFPAN). Domestic
petroleum prices that are higher than international and Central American
levels are the result of: (1) high refining costs, (2) price and import
controls, (3) high sales taxes and bunker fees, (4) heavy import protection at
the refinery, and (5) a shrinking fuel market in Panama and the canal area
because domestic prices are higher than those from other sources. (Annex Ill,
Attachment vi, pages 5 and 6 discuss issues related to pricing of petroleum
products).
85.         REPPAN, established in 1956, has a monopoly on the domestic supply
of petroleum in Panama. It operates at low capacity (about 20 percent in
1988-90), is not economically viable, and imposes a major cost to the economy.
Profits from direct imports are used to offset refinery losses, thus enabling
REFPAN to realize the 10 percent minimum rate of return on assets guaranteed
by the Government. If Panama had imported oil, instead of refining and buying
products from REFPAN, it could have saved an estimated US$25 million in 1989,
with fiscal gains of about US$12 million. Net of tax and import duty, the
gains from importing petroleum would have averaged more than 30 US cents a
gallon on jet fuel and 20 US cents a gallon on gasoline in 1989. The
Government plans to liberalize petroleum prices and imports as part of its
reform program. It will either renegotiate the contract at better terms to
cut petroleum prices or it will not renew REFPAN's contract when it expires at



- 27 -
the end of 1992. These actions, although fully supported by the proposed ERL,
are not conditions of the ERL.
F. REFORM OF TEE SOCIAL 8ECURITY SYSTEM
86.         The underfunded social security system (CSS) continues to weaken
the economy, diverting public resources from higher priority activities. In
1990, more than three-fourths of the public deficit was attributable to the
operations of CSS. Its operating deficit in 1988 was US$67 million, rising to
US$99 million in 1989, US$107 million In 1990, and an estimated US$187 million
in 1991 (see Annex III, Attachment ii, page 4). The projected deficit for
1992, without the introduction of a reform program, was US$200 million.
However, the introduction of a social security reform law in December 1991 is
expected to reduce the estimated deficit to about US$150 million in 1992.
87.         CSS provides pensions for insured retirees, for disabled persons,
and for close surviving relatives upon the death of an insured -articipant.
Comprehensive medical care, including hospitalization and drugs, is provided
not only to workers and their families but also to the uninsured through
Ministry of Health facilities. In 1990, out of a total labor force of about
700,000, some 379,000 workers were covered by the system. Including covered
dependents, CSS provides benefits for about 1.3 million people, more than half
the population of Panama.
88.         The social security tax -- a compulsory contribution of 18 percent
of wages (7.25 percent paid by employees and 10.75 percent by employers) --
plays a key role in driving up labor costs, discouraging employment growth,
and reducing Panama's international competitiveness. Despite high
contribution rates, the system faces major financial difficulties. Revenues
from contributions and the return-on-investment reserves declined
substantially in the three years between 1988 and 1990. Contributions fell
from US$339 million in 1987 to US$285 million in 1990 and US$280 million in
1991, and the number of insured contributors declined in 1988 and in 1989. At
the same time, CSS's outlays rose steadily.
89.         CSS's return on investment reserves is low.  Accrued earnings of
US$87 million on its reserves in 1990 represent a return of 7.3 percent. Two-
thirds of CSS's reserves are invested in government promissory notes that pay
interest in other government securities. Thus, cash earnings of US$26 million
provided an annual return of only 2.2 percent on the total portfolio.
Nonperforming assets constitute one-fifth of CSS's total assets. In the past,
part of the investment reserves were used to finance questionable housing
investments. Moreover, CSS has used its reserves in recent years to finance a
growing operating deficit. The absence of clear investment and financial
policy partly reflects CSS s lack of administrative autonomy.
90.         The high operating cost of Panama's social security system stems
from many factors. Most importantly, the low retirement age (55 for women, 60
for men) fails to reflect how substantially life expectancy has improved since
the retirement age was established almost 50 years ago. Moreover, a 1975 law



- 28 -
on early retirement based on outdated actuarial projections allows women to
retire at age 50 and men at age 55. In 1988-89, one out of three workers
eligible for retirement chose to retire early. About 6,000 people have
applied recently for early retirement. The high level of pension benefits --
starting at 60 percent of the salary earned during the best 3 years of the
past 15 years -- also drives up the system's cost and losses. Not only does
the benefit formula use an unusually high initial percentage (60 percent), but
the benefit may rise to 100 percent of the monthly base salary. Given the
weak finances of the social security system, the practice of revaluing
pensions to reflect cost-of-living also increases substantially the system's
losses.
91.         The system is further burdened by laws that give certain public
employees (such as policemen, firemen, and teachers) generous retirement
privileges, such as the right to retire at 100 percent of their highest income
after 25 years of service. The government complementary pension scheme was
established to finance these additional costs. An extra payroll tax of 2
percent on eligible public sector employees and a 0.3 percent contribution
from the central government contribute to the scheme. These contributions
fell short of actuarial obligations under the law, however, and the scheme's
deficit in recent years has not been fully funded by central government
transfers. The scheme's shortfall for 1990 amounted to US$18 million. The
total deficit through 1990 that the central government owes the CSS is about
US$120 million.
92.         CSS's administrative expenses are higher than for similar social
security schemes in Latin America. Salaries, the costliest component,
accounted for an estimated US$115 million, or 21.2 percent of total
expenditures, for 1991. Efforts to cut persornel have been initiated by the
current management, but legal constraints impede staff reduction in CCS's
medical branch.
93.         CSS's financial problems stem partly from an integration of the
pension fund and the domestic health-care system that does not reflect proper
cost allocation. This integration has allowed CSS to accommodate the health
service needs of its fast-growing constituency by using the Ministry of
Health's underused health-care facilities instead of building its own parallel
and overlapping health-care infrastructure. But under this system, CSS must
provide staff and medicine for use in government hospitals that provide
services to Panamanians who do not contribute to the social security system.
The net cost to CSS of providing these services averages about US$30 million a
year. Because there is no clear framework for determining appropriate
contribution levels, procedures, and operating methods for the Ministry of
Health and CSS, CSS's operating costs have risen since the integrated health-
care system was introduced in 1973. To resolve cost allocation problems, the
Government plano to define and implement a plan in order to rationalize the
cost allocation system during the program period, supported by the proposed
ERL. Agreement has been reached with the Government on the terms of reference
for a study for developing an action plan (para. 116(9)). Agreement on an
action plan and initiation of implementation of the action plan are conditions



- 29 -
of second tranche release (para. 117(8)). Completing implementatlon of the
action plan is a condition of third tranche release (para. 118(7)).
94.         Reform of the social security system, vital for economic recovery,
aims to ensure the financial solvency of the social security system without
increasing the already high social security tax rate. Expecte increase in
employment and the resulting rise in contributions and the introduction of the
reform law in 1991 will reduce the deficit in the next several years. Coupled
with cost reduction efforts and improved management practices, the cash
deficit of the social security system will likely be eliminated in ten years.
95.         In May 1991, the Government identified three objectives for social
security reform: (1) eliminating the cash deficit of the social security
system in no more than 10 years without increasing the social security tax
rate for employers; (2) eliminating the cash deficit of the government
complementary pension scheme in 1993; and (3) giving administrative autonomy
to CSS. The Congress approved a law, whose salient features are outlined in
Annex V, pages 9-10, in December 1991, and the Bank agreed on the terms of
reference both for eliminating the cash deficit of the government
complementary pension scheme and for developing an action plan to rationalize
the integrated health-care system and avoid having CSS and the Ministry of
Health subsidize each other (para. 116(9)). Agreement between the Bank and
the Government on an action plan to eliminate the cash deficit of the
government complementary scheme is a condition for second tranche release
(para. 117 (8)). Starting implementation of the action plan to eliminate the
cash deficit of the government complementary scheme in 1993 and completing
implementation of an action plan to rationalize integrated health-care
services are conditions for third tranche release (para. 118 (7)). To achieve
these objectives, the law provides for the following:
(1)   no increase in contribution rates for employers;
(2)   eliminate the early retirement provisions on January 1, 1993;
(3)   increase the retirement age for men from 60 to 62 and for women
from 55 to 57 on January 1, 1995;
(4)   allocate one-third of the thirteenth month salary bonus for both
public and private sector employees to CSS;
(S)   reduce the benefit formula from 60 percent of the base salary plus
1.25 percent after 10 years and 1.5 percent after 20 years to 60
percent plus 1.25 percent after 15 years of service;
(6)   allow eligibility for disability pensions for up to retirement age
to reduce pension cost;
(7)   base the salary used to calculate the pension on the highest 7
years of working life prior to retirement instead of the present



- 30 -
best 3 years of the past 15 years, as was the case prior to the
enactment of the lawl
(8)   continue with the practice of not revaluing pensions for domestic
inflation, except for minimum pensions (i.e., US$145 a month)
which will be adjusted every three years provided CSS's finances
permit;
(9)   shift 0.5 percent of workers' contributions from the medical
scheme to the pension scheme. (The Government plans to
rationalize the use of resources for health-care services and to
eliminate the cash deficit of the medical component through cost
containment measures before the end of 1994, in part through the
implementation of an action plan which will be supported by
USAID.);
(10) manage investment funds profitably and, to increase
yield, invest reserves in high-grade securities at a
prudent level of risk;
(11) give administrative autonomy to CSS;
(12)  introduce a program to reduce CSS's operating costs; and
(13) introduce a satisfactory cost allocation system between the
Ministry of Health (MOH) and CSS to avoid cross-subsidization
between the two entities.
96.         The Bank agreed with the Government that a study of the government
complementary pension scheme should be started immediately after Board
presentation and finalized in no more than 4 months so that options arrived at
in the study could be evaluated before second tranche release (para. 116(9)).
Agreement between the Bank and the Government on an action plan to eliminate
the cash deficit of the government complementary pension scheme will be a
condition for second tranche release (para. 117(8)). Implementation of the
plan will be a condition for third tranche release (para. 118(7)). It was
agreed that in order to be satisfactory: (1) actions included in the plan
should be self-sustaining and should permanently increase revenue or reduce
expenditure (or both); (2) implementation of the plan should produce cash
savings of US$21-25 million a year; and (3) implementation of the action plan
should eliminate the cash operating deficit in 1993 and should prevent the
reemergence of cash operating deficits in the following 10 years.
G.  REFORM OF THE FINANCIM. SECTOR
97.         Because of economic and political upheavals in the 1980s,
financial sector activities contracted sharply. Assets of the banking system
(mostly the offshore banking system) fell 70 percent between 1982 and 1990.
Domestic bank deposits began to recover after the new government took office,
rising by US$3.5 billion in 1990. Restrictions placed on withdrawals during



- 31 -
the crisie of 1989 were gradually removec by July 1990. There are now no
controls on loan interest rates, and restrictions on deposit interest rates do
not significantly affect the economy. Directed credit programs of private
commercial banks also remain negligible. Major issues in the financial sector
include the technical insolvency and inefficiency of most public banks and the
weakness of the regulatory and supervisory framework.
98.         The public banking system comprives four institutions:  a large
commercial bank that acts as a public sector depository and fiscal agent
(National Bank of Panama, BNP), the Savings Bank (Caja de Ahorro, CA), the
National Mortgage Bank (Banco Hipotecario Nacional, BHN), and an Agricultural
"redit Bank (Banco de Desarrollo Agricola, BDA).  Public banks have been used
in the past to direct lending to agriculture, construction, and low-income
housing. BHN insures deposits at the five privately-owned savings and loan
associations (S&Ls), three ot which are reported to be technically insolvent.
Although the BNP's portfolio of private sector loans represents only 16
percent of its lending, it had to create reserves for potential losses for
close to half of its private sector portfolio. Moreover, the BNP has not
received interest on outstanding loans and overdrafts of the central
government during the crisis years 1989-90. The sizeable nonperforming
portfolios of the other three public banks have resulted primarily from poor
lending decisions. The public banks also suffer from excessive staff costs
and inadequate management and administration. The Government is finalizing an
action plan to address problems in the public banks. Annex II, Attachment x,
outlines restructuring needs of public banks and terms of reference for
carrying out a study to develop an action plan for restructuring BDA. USAID
will finance the aforementioned study. The proposed ERL will support the
Government's program through technical assistance during the program period
(para. 125), but actions under this program are not conditions of the ERL.
99.9        Regulation and supervision of the banking system are also
inadequate. The outdated Banking Law of Panama should be modified to ensure
the solvency of commercial banks and to bring public banks under the
supervision of the National Banking Commission. Prudential regulations have
to be modified. Required capitalization ratios are too low and provisioning
requirements for classified assets and for asset classification techniques are
inadequate. Annex II, Attachment xi, describes the proposed study on
prudential regulations and outlines the technical assistance under the ERL
(para. 126) to help the Government strengthen bank supervision during the
program period.
100.        Mismanagement and poor lending decisions have left public banks
technically insolvent. The Government plans to provide US$50 miliion in 1992
to capitalize the Savings Bank, pending completion of a sound restructuring
plan that will include the possible sale of the Savings Bank's stock to the
public through Panama's newly created capital market. With this exceptLon, it
is not advisable to recapitalize these institutions before carefully
considering all available options. The Government plans to draft
comprehensive restructuring plans based on information obtained from audits.
The audits have already been completed or are being finalized. The



- 32 -
restructuring plans will include timing for recapitalization (only for the
Savings Bank), privatization, abrogation of 8HN's deposit insurance
responsibility, and restoration of sound and safe procedures in the private
savings and loan associations. Actions under the Government's financial
sector reform program, which are not conditions of the proposed ERL, includes
(1)   closing and liquidating three privately owned S&Ls and
transferring their assets to the Savings Bank (CA);
(2)   restructuring the National Mortgage Bank (BHN);
(3)   restructurinq the Agricultural Development Bank (BDA);
(4)   placing public bank lending operations on an equal footing with
private banks;
(5)   defining the future role of commercial activities at the BNP and
CA;
(6)   strengthening prudential regulations and bank supervision; and
(7)   resuming payment of interest by BNP on its overdrafts to the
Government in 1992.
B. *SCAL SETR_ R
101.        The 1987-89 economic crisis increased poverty in Panama.
Unemployment reached about 16 percent (after climbing to 20 percent in 1990),
and many of the people in the informal sector (small traders and market
vendors, for example) remain underemployed. About three-fourths of the
unemployed live in urban areas, principally in Panama City and Colon. In the
past three years, real incomes have dropped sharply for about a quarter of the
population, the number estimated in 1991 to be extremely poor. The average
monthly income in 1991 is insufficient to purchase the minimum food basket,
which costs about US$185 a month.
102.        Although social indicators have improved in the past 20 years (see
Annex VI), in the 1980s this positive trend ceased. But geographical
disparities are significant. Infant mortality, for example, was an estimated
24 per 1,000 infants nationally in 1987, but exceeded 35 per 1,000 in some of
the poorest areas, which represent 13 percent of the population. Health
statistics are even worse in areas with a heavily concentrated Indian
pop' 1tion, such as Darien, Bocas del Toro, and Comarca de San Blas. In 1988,
an L imated one-quarter of Panama's population suffered from malnutrition,
while this figure was 40 to 70 percent of the people in Darien, Bocas del
Toro, and Comarca de San Blas.
103.        Health coverage has expanded in the last decade, but about a third
of the population still lacks access to health-care services. Health-care
services remain extremely inefficient. Agency responsibilities are not
clearly defined, so the system lacks clear lines of authority and uses



- 33 -
existing capacity inadequately. Health and education facilities have
significantly deteriorated, especially in the past couple of years, am
budgetary constraints have severely limited repairs and maintenance.
104.        Authorities have taken several measures to address the most urgent
short-term social issues. In 1990, as part of a USAID assistance package, the
Government established an emergency needs program to provide food, shelter,
and replacement housing for the displaced, as well as emergency employment and
technical assistance for several key ministries.
105.        Other social sector measures are planned to alleviate the social
costs of adjustment for Panama's poorest groups. Firet, health and
education's share of spending in the 1992 budget will be maintained at the
1990 level. Second, the Government intends to reallocate more resources
toward primary health and education spending within the social sectors budget.
Third, a plan of action for nutrition will be implemented in the poorest
regions of Panama, incorporating programs for: (1) lactating mothers and
children up to the age of 5, and (2) school-age children (including school
benefits and lunches). The nutrition program at the national level is
estimated to cost about US$7.5 million annually. UNDP will help the
Government to implement the program, and the Bank will also support the
Governtent through the technical assistance under the proposed ERL (para.
123). Annex III, Attachment xii, shows options that the Government is
pursuing. MIPPE will be the executing agency for the nutrition program (para.
116(7)). Agreeing on a pilot program is a condition for second tranche
release (para. 117(9)). Evaluating the results of the pilot program and
agreeing on a national program is a condition for third tranche release (para.
118(8)).
PART III
MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS EXTERNAL FINANCING NEEDS.
AND CREDITWORTHINESS
106.        The economic growth that has resumed since 1990 has been based
mostly on unused existing capacity. Sustaining economic growth will
increasingly require investment in new capacity. The base case projections
presented below assume that beyond implementing the reform program supported
by the proposed ERL, the authorities will continue to deepen reform efforts in
the projection period. Implementation of the Govern4nent's reform program is
expected to significantly change the structure of the Panamanian economy in
the 1990s. Trade liberalization and deregulation of the labor market will
bring about effective real devaluation, making Panama more competitive
internationally. They will also change the balance of incentives, favoring
exportables and importables over nontradables and encouraging private sector
specialization suitable for the country's comparative advantages. Part of
this transformation will be the elimination of incentives for capital-
intensive production processes, the result of decades of import-substitution
strategies.



- 34 -
107.        Assuming successful implementation of the reform program and
continued structural adjustment, the country's GOP is expected to grow an
average 5.1 percent a year between 1992 and 1995, and about 5.8 percent a year
in the second half of the 1990s (Table 5). The projected growth rates are
considered to be attainable. The domestic economy is service-oriented, so the
investmeat requirements for expansion are relatively modest and vast untapped
opportunities exist for growth, such as putting reverted areas from the Canal
Zone into use. The projected growth rates are comparable to those recorded in
the early 1970s, when GDP grew by about 6.5 percent a year.
108.        During the projection period, 1992-1999, the main sources of
growth will come from domestic private services and from sectors oriented
toward external trade, including bananas, shrimps, and nontraditional
manufacturing activities, especially maquila. The activities of the Colon
Free Trade Zone have also started to register significant growth. During the
projection period, the service sector will continue to be the heart of the
economy, contributing to 79 percent of projected GDP after 1995. Growth in
the increasingly efficient and dynamic industrial and agricultural subsectors
is expected to offset a projected decline in inefficient industries and
agriculture, raising industry's share of GDP to about 12 percent while
agriculture's share remains at 9 percent after 1995. Shares in the service
sector are expected to change, with the share for public sector activities,
the Canal, and the pipeline declining, as the share for financial services,
insurance, tourism, and transportation (ports) increases.
109.        Gross domestic investment is expected to increase in the first
half of the decade, mostly because of an improved investment climate and the
recovery of public investwant -- to pre-crisis (before 1988)--levels of about
17.5 percent of GDP. After peaking in 1994 at 18.2 percent of GDP, gross
domestic investment as a share of GDP should decline somewhat, to 17.5 percent
by 1999, because of improved capital efficiency. (In this period, the
incremental capital-output ratio is expected to decline from a projected 3.3
in 1994 to around 3.0 by 1999.)
Table 5: Setected Macroeconomic Variables for Selected Years
(projected - in percentages)
1992    1993     1994      1995   1996-19991'
Reat GOP growth (t)                5.0     5.0      5.0      5.5      5.8
Private per capita conLwption 1'  93.5     98.0    102.0    105.5    117.0
Domestic savings/GDP tX)          18.3     19.3     20.5     20.7     21.7
Gross domestic investment/GDPtX)  16.2     17.1     18.2     18.0     17.7
ICOn                              2.8      3.2      3.3      3.2      3.0
Reat export growth tX)            3.4      6.0      6.6      7.0      7.7
Resource balance/lGP (X)           2.1     2.2      2.3      2.7      3.9
Current account batance/GDP (X) '  -6.8    -6.8     -4.2    -4.0      -1.8
1L-  Index, with 1987 as the base year.
ZU- Excluding official transfers.
}i- Annual average growth rates.
Sources Bank staff estimates.



- 35 -
110.        Trade reform will reduce the anti-export bias of the economy,
inducing a shift of resources from formerly protected industries to exportable
activities and efficient import-substitution. In response to trade reform and
deregulation, the share of exports of goods and nonfactor services are
projected to grow from 38.5 percent of GDP in 1990 to 42.9 percent in 1995 and
47.9 percent in 1999. The structure of exports should change, with
nontraditional exports increasing as a share of the total from 47.9 percent in
1990 to 55.1 percent in 1995 and 55.8 percent by 1999. Conversely,
traditional exports, such as sugar, should decline in Importance. Ae the
economy opens up, imports are projected to increase from 37.3 percent of GDP
in 1990 to about 40.2 percent in 1995 and 43.3 percent in 1999. More
importantly, ihe composition of imports would change. Imports of consumer and
intermediate goods would increase, as the share of imported capital goods
declines in response to the growth in labor-intensive production. The
resource balance is expected to improve steadily during the period, from a
projected 2.2 percent of GDP in 1991 to 2.7 percent in 1995 and 4.6 percent in
1999. The current account deficit is expected to decline from a projected 6.8
percent of GDP in 1992 to 4 percent in 1995 and 2.3 percent in 1999.
Ill.        Given Panama's open capital account, projections for the capital
account of the balance of payments are not relevant for analyzing the
country's creditworthiness. Rather, creditworthiness is related to public
sector finances, which are described as part of the Government's agreed
macroeconomic/fiscal program (see paras. 33-38). Projections assume that
multilateral financial institutions will provide relatively strong financial
support during this period. The multilateral lending programs, together wLth
an expected increase in net direct foreign investment, should compensate for
an expected decline in official grants in the remainder of the 3990s. (Annex
III, Attachment xiii, shows projected gross capital inflows.) Panama should
be able to rely less on foreign sources of financing as private savings grow.
Under the base case scenario the Bank and IDB would provide, in about equal
amounts, significant financial assistance to Panama in the projection period.
The share of domestic investment financed by national savings should expand as
national savings increase from an estimated 11.1 percent of GDP in 1991 to
16.1 percent by 1999. Also the IlIs are expected to provide net positive
flows to Panama during 1992-1996.
112.        Under the base case scenario presented here, indicators of
Panama's creditworthiness will improve substantially, with total external debt
declining from 102.9 percent of projected GDP in 1992 to 96.1 percent in 1995
and 70.3 percent by 1999. Total debt service payments, as a share of exports
of goods and services, will decline from 26.9 percent in 1992 to 16.7 percent
in 1995 and 9.3 percent in 1999. Interest payments as a share of current
revenues are projected to decline from 26.4 percent in 1990 to an estimated 23
percent in 1993. Panama is accumulating large cash balances because it does
not service its debt to morsey center commercial banks at present. The
authorities have begun discussing the issue of overdue payment obligations
with the international commercial banks to seek a lasting solution of the
arrears problem. Whether the medium-term prospects presented in this report
are attained'depends very much on Panama's effective implemention of the



- 36 -
reform program to be supported by the proposed ERL and on maintaining
political stability.
Low-case scenario
113.        Under the low-case scenario, whose main assumptions are described
in para. 28, GDP growth would be much lower, averaging at best 2 percent a
year during the projection period. Inability to carry through public
employment reduction would result in continued depressed levela in public
investment, leading to a further deterioration in the capital stock of the
country. This would be exacerbated by a sharp decline in official capital
flows.  If trade/deregulation/and tax reformo are not fully implemented,
private investment would be much lower and possibly less efficient with a
higher incremental capital/output ratio than under the base-case scenario,
since it would be geared to the small domestic market in which further
efficient import-substitution opportunities are limited. Exports, especially
manufactured and other nontraditional exports, would grow very slowly compared
to the base case. Furthermore, growth of traditional exports (bananas,
sugar) would likely be lower given the inadequate incentive framework. In
view of the uncertainty about economic policies, net direct foreign investment
and private transfers would be considerably lower compared to the base case.
These lower inflows would also result in a corresponding cut in imports.
Reduced capital inflows would shrink import capacity further. Reductions in
imports, in turn, would have an adverse effect on investment, productivity,
and growth. The Government might be forced to apply import controls, thereby
introducing further distortions into the economy. In the absence of further
deregulation of labor markets, the cost of labor would likely increase and the
unempioyment situation could become untenable. With slow growth in GDP and in
exports, the share of external debt in GDP and in government revenues, and the
debt service ratio would likely climb to critically high levels. Under these
circumstances, it is highly unlikely that the country would be able to service
its external debt, and Panama's creditworthiness could be undermined.
PART IV
TOR PROPOSED LOAN
A. Backaround
114.        After the U.S. military action in 1989, a Bank reconnaissance
mission visited Panama in January 1990, followed by economic missions in May,
August, and October of 1990 and a pre-appraisal mission for the proposed ERL
in February 1991. Panama's economic team, headed by Vice-President Ford,
visited the Bank in early Nay, and the ERL was appraised in June 1991. The
Bank appraisal team worked closely with the IDB on the public enterprise
reform program. A representative from Japan's aid agency, OECF, also
participated in the Bank's appraisal mission. Negotiations began in September
1991 in Washington, D.C., and were concluded on January 22, 1992. This



- 37 -
section describes the policy actions to be supported under the ERL and the
proposed timing for the loan.
8. Conditions for Tranche Releases
115.        Most of the proposed ERL of US$120 million will be disbursed in
three tranches (para. 122) and will support the Government's reform program,
outlined in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV) and the
Matrix of Policy Action (Annex V). A US$1.8 million portion of the loan will
be made available at effectiveness for short-term technical assistance (paras.
123-126). Actions taken before Board presentation and proposed actions to be
met before second and third tranche release are summarized below. If a
satisfactory framework privatization law is not passed by April 30, 1992, the
Bank will have the right to suspend disbursements under the loan. All tranche
releases will be contingent upon: (1) Panama's maintaining a supportive
enabling macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the program outlined
in the Letter of Development Policy; (2) satisfactory performance in
implementation of the program outlined in the aforementioned Letter and the
Matrix of Policy Action; and (3) the Government's progress in carrying out the
specific actions required under the program. Among other things, the Bank
will review any adjustment to the minimum wages and any policy measures, that
may negatively affect the implementation of the program, taken by the
Government before each tranche release.
116.        The following summarizes agreements reached at negotiations and
the Government's actions taken so far. All actions taken prior to Board
presentation are shown in the respective column of Annex V.
(1)    Agreement on savings targets for the general government and
targets for reducing the public wage bill (paras. 33-38 and Annex
III, Attachments i, ii, iii, and iv).
(2)    Agreement on the size and composition of the public investment
program for 1991-93 (paras. 54-56 and Annex III, Attachment viii).
(3)    Agreement that a draft enabling legislation will be presented to
Congress in March 1992 to improve procurement and budgetary
practices for public enterprises; on principles for pricing public
utilities and services; on action plans for IRHE and IDAAN; on a
program to improve the finances of PSEs, including targets for the
consolidated non-interest current outlays for the nine PSEs listed
In para. 43; on a program to privatize maintenance and security
services for IRHE and meter reading and bill collection for IDAAN;
and on expansion program for IRHE and IDAAN (paras. 41-46).
(4)    Agreement on the privatization program; the Government established
a technical privatization unit at MIPPE and brought Air Panama and
Citricos de Chiriqui to a position where tender documents for the
bidding were issued to private investors; Cabinet approved a



- 38 -
privatization plan for INTEL and APN; and the Government
established a technical unit to privatize INTEL (paras. 48, 50-
52).
(5)   Agreement on the trade reform program with a calendar of actions
that includes: (i) implementation of the first steps of the trade
reform program (reduced import tariff ceilings to 60 percent for
industrial products and 90 percent for agro-industrial products on
August 1, 1991); (ii) agreeing to reduce import tariff rates to 40
percent for industrial products and 50 percent for agro-industrial
products before third tranche release; (iii) eliminating specific
import tariff rates on 261 products, which cover about 90 percent
of domestic production before second tranche release, and
eliminating the remaining specific import tariff rates before
third tranche release; (iv) raising the import tariff rate on
goods classified under the Centro de compras (i.e., tourist goods)
to 5 percent on January 1, 1992 (action already taken), and
agreeing to maintain import tariff rates for industrial inputs,
covered under Law 3, at 3 percent; (v) unifying import tariff
rates on agricultural products used both as inputs and for final
consumption before second tranche release; (vi) taking action to
eliminate domestic price controls, quantitative import
restrictions, and accompanying import tariff reductions on
vegetables (except beans, potatoes, and onions for which QRs and
price controls will be eliminated before second tranche release
and for tomatoes before third tranche release); and (vii) taking
action to eliminate export restricticns and QRs on domestic price
controls on beef (and reducing the import tariff rate on beef to
30 percent) before Board presentation, on chicken and pork before
second tranche release, and on agricultural products, except
sorghum and rice for which quantitative restrictions and price
controls will be eliminated before second and third tranche
release, respectively (paras. 67, 73, 75).
(6)    Agreement on a program to liberalize labor markets and to reduce
labor costs along the lines of the Government's program as
outlined in para. 82.
(7)    Agreement that MIPPE will be the agency to execute the nutrition
program (para. 105).
(8)    Passage of a satisfactory tax legislation through Congress in late
December 1991 (para. 63).
(9)    Passage of a satisfactory social security legislation through
Congress in early December 1991, agreement on terms of references
for preparing action plans to eliminate the projected cash deficit
of the government complementary pension scheme in 1993, for
developing an adequate cost allocation system between the Ministry
of Health and CSS, and to reduce costs of the health-care
component of the social security system (para. 93-96).



- 39 -
117.        8econd tranche release will be conditional on adherence to the
implementation of the agreed-upon macroeconomic/fiscal program (paras. 33-38),
and the following actionst
(1)    Achievement of the agreed-upon savings targets for the general
government and implementation of the program to reduce the public
wage bill (paras. 33-38).
(2)    Satisfactory implementation of the agreed-upon public investment
program (paras. 54-56).
(3)    Congressional approval of a law, satisfactory to the Bank,
establishing improved procurement and budgetary practices of
public sector enterprises (paras. 41-42).
(4)    Implementation of a program to improve the finances of PSEs,
including not exceeding the targets for the consolidated non-
interest current outlays for the PSEs mentioned in para. 43;
progress in successfully implementing action plans, including
compliance with the financial and operational efficiency targets
for IRHE and IDAAN; updating the long-run marginal cost study for
electricity; agreement on an action plan to move electricity
prices to long-run marginal costs; and undertaking a study on
pricing for telecommunications and ports (paras. 41-46).
(5)    Congressional approval of a law, satisfactory to the Bank, to
restructure and regulate the telecommunications sector and to
privatize INTEL; to issue satisfactory norms to ensure that
mechanisms and procedures for privatization are timely, efficient,
and transparent; to bring all public companies listed in Annex
III, Attachment vii (Group A) to the point where tender documents
for bidding have been issued by private investors or offers have
been solicited; and to grant concessions for the ports of Balboa
and Crist6bal to the private sector (paras. 48, 50-52).
(6)    Implementation of a program to adjust corporate income tax rates
and decrease the number of personal income tax brackets according
to the approved law (para. 63).
(7)    Elimination of price controls on industrial products covered under
Law 3 and continued phasing out of QRs and import permits,
domestic price controls, and related import tariff rate reductions
on corn, sorghum, potatoes, onions, beans, chicken, and pork;
elimination of specific import tariff rates on 261 products, which
cover about 90 percent of production; unifying import tariff rates
on agricultural products used both as inputs and for final
consumption, and maintenance of a 3 percent minimum import tariff
rate on industrial inputs covered under Law 3 (paras. 63, 67, 73,
75).



- 40 -
(8)    Agreement on an action plan to eliminate the cash deficit of the
government complementary pension scheme in 1993; agreement on an
action plan and initiation of its implementation to rationalize
the cost allocation system between the Ministry of Health and CSS8
and agreement on an action plan to reduce costs of the health-care
component of CSS (para. 93-96).
(9)    Agreement on the objectives, actions, targets,  nd timetables for
the pilot phase of the nutrition program (para. 105).
118.        The third tranche release would be conditional on adherence to the
implementation of the agreed-upon macroeconomic/fiscal program (paras. 33-38)
and on the Government'ss
(1)    Achieving agreed-upon savings targets for the general government
and completing the program to reduce the public wage bill (paras.
33-38).
(2)    Satisfactorily implementing the agreed-upon public investment
program (paras. 54-56).
(3)    Implementing a program to improve the finances of PSEs, including
not exceeding the targets for the consolidated non-interest
current outlays for the PSEs mentioned in para. 43; achieving
progress in successfully implementing action plans, including
compliance with the financial and operational efficiency targets
for IRHE and IDAAN, implementing the privatization program for
IRHE and IDAAN, and implementing an action plan for pricing for
electricity, water, telecommunications, and ports; and ensuring
implementation of satisfactory legislation to improve procurement
and budgetary practices of public sector enterprises (paras. 41-
46).
(4)    Establishing an adequately staffed regulatory agency for
telecommunications and issuing tender documents for international
bidding by private investors for a controlling ownership interest
in INTEL; completing implementation of the privatization program
for IRHE and IDAAN; privatizing at least three public companies
listed in Annex III, Attachment vii (Group A); and continuing to
implement the program to grant concessions on ports of Balboa and
Crist6bal to the private sector (paras. 48, 50-52).
(5)    Implementing a program to adjust corporate income tax rates and
decreasing the number of personal income tax rate brackets
according to the approved law (para. 63).
(6)    Completing the agreed-upon trade reform program by eliminating all
remaining specific import tariff rates; establishing an import
tariff rate ceiling of 40 percent for industrial products and 50
percent for agro-industrial products; maintaining a 3 percent



- 41 -
minimum import tariff rate on industrial inputs, covered under Law
3; converting the price-setting institution, Oficina de Reaulaci6n
de Prcjgio, into a consumer protection agency, oficlng de
Proteccifn al Consumidor (para. 75), and amending Decree 60, March
1969, accordingly; eliminating QRs and domestic price controls on
rice and tomatoes, and intrcducing agreed tariff rate reductions
(paras. 63, 67, 73, 75).
(7)    Starting implementation of the program to eliminate the projected
cash deficit of the government complementary pension scheme, and
completing implementation of the action plan to introduce a
satisfactory cost allocation system between the Ministry of Health
and CSS, and finalizing the implementation of a program to reduce
costs of health-care component of CSS (paras. 93-96).
(8)    Evaluating the results of the pilot program for nutrition and
agreeing on a plan to implement the nutrition program nationally
(para. 105).
C. Procuremer . Auditina. Retroactive Financingg  and Special Account
119.         oan proceeds would be used to finance the CIF cost of general
imports and relevant foreign services, excluding goods financed by other
multilateral and bilateral agencies, luxury goods, military equipment, and
other goods specifically prohibited in a negative list defined under the
Standard International Trade Classification (SITC), and including services for
technical assistance under the proposed ERL. Retroactive financing of up to
US$60.2 million of the loan amount is recommended for eligible imports which
took place since September 1, 1990. Although this would exceed the standard
20 percent guideline for retroactive financing under adjustment operations,
exemption from this rule is justified, as it will enable clearance of arrears
to the Bank and other IFIs to take place. Audits by the independent external
auditors acceptable to the Bank will be completed 90 days after each tranche
withdrawal, or for corresponding fiscal years when withdrawals are made for
technical assistance. The technical assistance component (paras. 123-126) of
US$1.8 million would finance the cost of consultants to help the Government
implement the agreed-upon reform program.
120.        A recent Country Procurement Review (CPR) by the Bank concluded
that private sector importers' procurement procedures are generally
acceptable. Public sector procurement is governed by the Fiscal Code and
specific by-laws of public sector enterprises. Procedures are based on
competition with only minor exceptions for direct contracting, which are
compatible with Bank guidelines. Private sector importers of capital goods
and commodities normally base their purchase decisions on more than one
quotation. Importers of consumer goods, however, tend to purchase by direct
negotiation based on long-term agreements with individual manufacturers. On
the basis of this review, the following procurement procedures will apply:



- 42 -
(1)    Imports by public and private importers valued at US$3 million or
more would be procured under simplified ICB procedures in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines, except for future
petroleum imports for which modified IC8 procedures, satisfactory
to the Bank, may be used. Such procedures were agreed upon with
the Government during negotiations. For petroleum imports, under
existing contracts, relevant expenditures qualify for
reimbursement under the loan in an amount not to exceed per unit
the reference average FOB price (high and low) published in
Platt's Oilgram for the U.S. Gulf Coast or the Caribbean, as
applicable, on the date of loading. This price will be adjusted
for type and quality of crude or product, plus ocean freight rates
(that would apply to the largest tankers that can be handled at
the receiving terminal), insurance, allowance for ocean losses,
and inspection costs. No finance charge on such contracts would
be eligible for reimbursement under the loan. (The first tranche
disbursement of the proposed ERL will be made against oil
imports). A similar criterion would apply to commodities under
existing contracts for which the reference unit price would be the
average price posted by a recognized commodity exchange.
(2)   Imports by public sector importers, valued below US$3 million,
would be procured in accordance with the procedures of the
importing agencies. Import contracts by private importers would
be awarded in accordance with established commercial practices of
the private sector, requiring price quotations from at least two
eligible suppliers, except where direct contracting may be
appropriate under para. 3.5 of the operations Directive
guidelines.
121.        MIPPE would administer the loan.  The Controller-General's Office
(Contraloria) would collect and review relevant procurement documentation
regarding public sector imports and payments to ensure that only imports that
meet the eligibility criteria and satisfy agreed-upon procurement procedures
are included in withdrawal applications; MIPPE would be responsible for the
same regarding the private sector and for submitting all withdrawal
applications. To assist in this work, MIPPE would retain an experienced
procurement consultant. Disbursements against contracts valued under US$1
million would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOB), except
for disbursements for technical assistance for which the limit would be
US$100,000. The relevant procurement documentation would be retained by
Contraloria for review by the Bank and independent auditors.
D. Tranching. Disbursement, and Closing Date
122.        The loan proceeds would be disbursed over an 18-month period in
tranches of US$60 million (first tranche); US$25 million (second tranche); and
US$33.2 million (third tranche). The first tranche would be available for
disbursement upon loan effectiveness. It is expected that a further 8 months,



- 43 -
and subsequently 10 months, respectively, would be required to meet the
conditions for second and third tranche release. US$100,000 would be made
available upon loan effectiveness through a Special Account at BNP for
technical assistance. Cofinancing from the IDB of US$120 million is expected
in the form of parallel financing of a sectoral adjustment loan to support the
Government's public enterprises reform program, also supported under the
proposed ERL. OECF is expected to cofinance the Bank operation with a US$100
million concessional loan with the same timing under the proposed Bank tranche
disbursements. Bank's tranche disbursements will also be timed with IDB's
expected tranche disbursements under its proposed Public Enterprise Reform
loan. The closing date for the proposed loan is December 31, 1993.
S. Technical Assistance
123.        Given the complexity of Panama's economic adjustment effort, the
Government hae requested technical assistance of US$1.8 million under the
proposed ERL. Annex III, Attachment xiv, describes the agreed-upon technical
assistance program under the proposed ERL. The bulk of this assistance is
designed to help strengthen the Government, and in particular MIPPE, so it can
carry out the agreed-upon structural adjustment program. Approximately US$1.6
million of the assistance would finance the services of external experts in
macroeconomic/fiscal policies, public employment reduction program,
agrizulture, customs, social security, nutrition program, procurement, and
privatization. US$200,000 will be provided to enable the Government to create
public awareness of the need for introducing reforms. Consultants would be
hired in accordance with Bank procedures and would work with the various
technical units recently established at HIPPE.
124.        Technical assistance, to be financed by an IDB concessional loan,
will also be provided to the Government to establish an adequate regulatory
framework for telecommunications as part of the program to privatize INTEL.
The Bank will monitor the provision of technical assistance to privatize INTEL
through a tripartite arrangement among the Bank, IDB, and the Government. The
technical assistance for INTEL will focus on building expertise in: (1)
regulatory policy; (2) price, cost, and financial analysis; (3) service,
investment planning, and technical standards; and (4) administrative, legal,
and information systems. The planned technical assistance for INTEL is
described in Annex III, Attachment xv.
125.        Assistance would also be provided to strengthen bank supervision
and to complete a review and revision, as needed, of the regulatory framework
for financial institutions. A technical assistance component of US$120,000
would be used to finance the services of external experts who would: (1)
provide operational training to the banking supervision staff of Panama's
National Banking Commission; and (2) support efforts to update the country's
banking regulatory framework. USAID will fund studies to develop action plans
to restructure public sector banks (para. 98).
126.        The Bank's technical assistance would complement other donor
actions (Annex III, Attachments xvi and xvii include terms of references for a



- 44 -
study of options to reduce health-care costs of CSS and a study of the
government complementary pension scheme, respectively). UNDP will fund a
study to strengthen the Ministries of Industry and Commerce and of Agriculture
to enable them to implement reform programs supported by the proposed ERL.
1DB would provide assistance on public sector management and public
enterprises. USAID, the UNDP, and the IDB would jointly fund a study to
evaluate viable options for financing expansion and maintenance for the Canal,
as well as its possible privatization. USAID will also fund some studies and
preparation of action plans which are being supported under the proposed ERL.
riven the enormous investment and maintenance needs required besfore Panama's
assumption of operational control of the Canal in 1999, the study is very
timely (para. 127).
P.  the Study of Viable Options for the Canal
127.        The Panama Canal, a major asset of the country, exploits Panama's
unique geographic location. The canal accounts for about 8-10 percent of GDP
and is the second largest source of em}loyment in the country. Although it is
presently operated by the United States Government, through a binational
commission under a Panamanian administrator, the canal will revert to Panama
in the year 2000. Changes in the structure of world trade and other factors
have reduced demand for the canal services. Canal traffic has decreased 2.8
percent a year since 1982. Economic assets (railroads, ports, housing, and
other buildings), already reverted to Panama under the terms of the 1977
Carter-Torrijos treaty, were not adequately maintained by previous
administrations. The Government understands the need to maintain the quality
of canal services. An explicit commitment to maintenance of the canal is all
the more important, considering that shippers will be deciding in the next few
years whether to build vessels that are too large for the Panama Canal.
Relying only on toll-generated funds would not permit rapid construction, and
alternative sources of financing may not be forthcoming, until there is a
clearer definition of how Panama will manage the canal after the year 2000.
128.        The President of the Republic established an interagency Cabinet-
level Consultative Council in early 1991 to oversee preparations for reverting
the canal to Panama. Preparation of a master plan for the canal area will be
a key step. The USAID, the UNDP, and the IDB will jointly fund a study to
evaluate viable options -- including privatization -- for financing expansion
and maintenance of the canal. The study would also review such issues as land
use and development priorities, environmental protection, and the use of
reverted assets.
0. Proaram Benefits sad Risks
129.        The benefits of the proposed ERL operation include the
establishment of a sound basis for sustained economic recovery, which should
reduce unemployment, and the initiation of trade reform and domestic
deregulation, which should promote export growth and efficient import
substitution. The operation would also reduce state control and improve



- 45 -
efficiency in the public sector. Higher savings and increased foreign and
domestic Investment would accelerate economic growth. Deregulation and public
sector reform would expand economic efficiency. Changes in tax legislation
would stimulate private investment. Social security reform would strengthen
public finances by eliminating CSS's cash deficit. The proposed ERL would
also help to move the economy from being heavily protected and inward-looking
toward a more outward-looking orientation. In addition, the proposed loan
would facilitate Panama's movement out of nonaccrual status and
reestablishment of its creditworthiness. Once arrears to the three IFIs are
cleared, Panama would be able to conclude debt settlements with the Paris Club
and to initiate negotiations with the international money center commercial
banks. Thus, a major benefit from this operation will be the regularization
of Panama's relationship with international financial institutions (IFIs).
130.        Timely implementation of the reform program, supported by the
proposed ERL, is expected to lead to a major turnaround for the Panamanian
economy within the next few years. First, public employment reduction and
social security reform would put public sector finances on a sound financial
footing and permit recovery of badly needed public investment in key areas,
such as in infrastructure, while strengthened management practices for public
enterprises would improve the quality of public services and establish the
principle of financial accountability in the public sector. Second, reforms
in trade, deregulation, tax, and social security would provide incentives for
private sector-led growth in areas of Panama's comparative advantages. These
reforms, coupled with the reforms in public sector enterprises, would lower
the cost of living through reducing costs and prices. Reforms in trade,
deregulation, and in ports would help the economy to integrate better with the
rest of the world and open opportunities for sustained growth. Third,
privatization of companies and services would shrink the size of the public
sector in the economy, expand efficiency, and improve services. Fourth,
deregulation and labor reforms would enc.'arage flexibility in resource
allocation and would reduce unemployment. Fifth, privatization of public
banks, rationalizing the operations of banks that will remain in the public
sector, improved prudential regulations, and strengthened bank supervision
would ensure that one of the major assets of the country, the financial
sector, would remain solvent and continue to provide stimulus for growth to
the rest of the economy. Lastly, social sector reforms would start a vital
process of providing nutritional assistance to the poorest groups in Panama.
131.        Effect on Poverty.  Over time the planned reform program should
have a positive impact on the poorest groups in Panama through the recovery of
sustained economic growth. As employment and incomes grow, the number of poor
should decline. Economic recovery will result principally from: (1) trade
reform, which will stimulate economic growth by increasing efficiency and
specialization in areas that reflect Panama's comparative advantages; (2)
agricultural trade liberalization, which will reduce food costs and thus boost
real incomes for the poorest groups; (3) deregulation of the labor market,
which should reduce unemployment; (4) tax reform, which should stimulate
private investment, avoid the increase in the anti-labor bias of the
incentives system, and exempt the poorest groups from income taxation; and (5)
reform of the social security system, which should prevent the financial



- 46 -
collapse of the social safety net for a large part of the Panamanian
population. Firms and labor markets will probably adjust gradually, and
unemployment could increase during the transition period. The groups most
vulnerable include children under the age of 5 and pregnant and lactating
women, whose malnutrition and mortality rates could increase during the
transition period. The proposed conditionality under the ERL supports a
nutrition program for these vulrerable groups (para. 105, and Annex III,
Attachment xii).
132.        Risks.  The proposed operation also faces important risks.  The
principal risk is the weakness in the institutional capacity to implement the
program. However, technical assistance under the ERL, as well as assistance
from IDB, USAID, and UNDP, are all designed to help the Government to
implement the reform program. Moreover, opposition from interest groups that
would be negatively affected by the reform program -- including labor unions
and the owners of protected industries -- may put pressure on the Government
to dilute the reform program, or even to reverse parts of it. The fluidity of
the current political situation may have a negative effect on successful and
timely program implementation. The proposed tranching conditions, which would
be matched by IDB and OECF, would give the Government incentive for full and
timely implementation, and contain the risk of failure. In addition, at the
Government's request, most of the program has been discussed with and is
supported in principle by the Christian Democratic Party, which has the
largest number of seats in the National Congress. In fact, the passage of the
laws on social security reform and tax reform through Congress has been made
possible by the strong support of the Christian Democratic Party. The
Government has started formal discussions with the Christian Democratic Party
to solicit their continued support for program implementation. The newly
established Technical Policy Unit at MIPPE should facilitate implementation of
the planned economic recovery program. The fact that the program requires
sacrifices from both the public and the private sector should facilitate the
Government's ability to gain political backing for the program's
implementation.
B. Relations with External Creditors
133.        External Debt.  By the end of 1991, Panama's outstanding stock of
external debt, including interest arrears, stood at about US$5.4 billion --
111 percent of GDP. Without payment arrears, debt to commercial creditors
accounted for close to three-fifths of total external stock of debt,
multilateral debt accounted for about one-fourth, and bilateral debt about 14
percent. The rest of the external debt stock included bonds and debt to
suppliers. Panama was over US$3.5 billion In arrears. Arrears on principal
and interest totaled US$2.2 billion and US$1.3 billion, respectively.
134.        IMF proaram.  On September 12, 1990, the IMF Executive Board
approved an 18-month Fund-monitored program (FMP), in the framework of the
intensified collaborative approach to resolving the problem of Panama's
overdue debt obligations to the IFIs. The program included quarterly fiscal
targets, quarterly limits on the BNP's credit to the public sector and on



- 47 -
BNP's net domestic assets, and limits on public foreign borrowing and on the
domestic arrears of the central government. Performance under this program
has been broadly satisfactory. In November 1991, the IMF concluded
negotiations or. a 22-month upper credit tranche standby and a Compensatory and
Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF), pending the clearance of arrears to the
IFIs. The program will continue the fiscal adjustment started in 1991, aimed
at consolidating public sector finances, strengthening public financial
institutions, and normalizing relations with all domestic and external
creditors, but also supports structural reforms under the proposed ERL,
specifically those in trade, privatization, taxation, social security, and
public enterprises.
135.        The Paris Club.  An agreement with the Paris Club for rescheduling
the official debt service payments in arrears, including those falling due
through March 1992, was reached in November 1990. Paris Club creditors agreed
to reschedule bilateral credits of US$180 million. These comprise 100 percent
of past due principal, interest, and late interest through the end of October
1990 (US$132 million) and 100 percent of principal and interest falling due in
the period November 1990 through March 1992 (US$48 million). Repayments will
be in ten equal, semi-annual installments beginning in January 1997. Under
the terms of the agreement, Panama was required to have an IMF program in
place by the end of June 1991. Since the IMF standby was not concluded by
that date, the Paris Club provided a final waiver, extending the deadline to
January 31, 1992. Since Bank and IMF documents are being circulated to their
respective Boards, and Panama intends to pay US$42 million to the Paris Club
creditors along with repayment of arrears to IFIs during early Februray 1992,
the Paris Club rescheduling agreement is expected to stay in full force.
136.        Commercial creditors.  The Government started a formal dialogue
with its international money center commercial bank creditors in late 1991.
It is the declared intention of the Government to start making payments to
domestic commercial banks starting in late 1993. By the end of 1991, arrears
to money center commercial banks reached about US$2.3 billion. Bank
projections assume that an increasing share of the interest obligations coming
due will be paid to international money center commercial banks during the
projection period. The settlement of arrears to commercial creditors will
likely involve debt reduction operations. No part of the proceeds of the
proposed ERL will be made available for this purpose.
PART V
XBRD/ INF/IDB COLLABORATION
137.        The Bank has worked closely with the IMF and the IDB in preparing
and appraising the ERL. The proposed ERL is closely associated with both the
proposed IMF and the IDB operations. The planned macroeconomic/fiscal program
-- especially the component that would reduce the public wage bill by cutting
the number of public jobs -- is an integral part of the proposed operation.
of both the Bank and the IMF. Both the Bank and the IDB support public
enterprise reform and privatization, including that of INTEL. Bank staff
accompanied IMF missions in July and in December 1990, and IMF staff joined



- 48 -
the Bank's pre-appraisal mission in February 1991. The IDB fielded a mission
for public enterprise reform at the time of the Bank's pre-appraisal mission
in February 1991. During that mission, the Bank provided support to IDB
regarding public utility pricing, petroleum deregulation, and INTEL's
privatization program. A Bank consultant participated in the IMF's standby
negotiation mission in June, which preceded the Bank's appraisal mission. The
Bank's appraisal mission was fielded in July 1991, to coincide with the IDB's
pre-appraisal mission. The Bank's appraisal mission provided technical
support to IDB for financial projections for IRHE and to INTEL's privatization
program, including a program of technical assistance to privatize INTEL. The
Bank's appraisal mission also provided technical support to the IMP for the
macroeconomic/fiscal program and the employment reduction program, as well as
the structural reforms that IMF is supporting under its agreed standby program
and the Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility.
PMAT VI
RECONMENDATIoN
138.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with IBRDWs
Articles of Agreement and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 30, 1992



49-                    Annex ;
PANAMA
Clearance of Arrears
PANAMA'S ARREARS TO IFIs t
IMF                 US$254.6 million
World Bank           US$225.8 million
IDB                 US$172.6 million
IFAD                 USS  4.8 million
TOTAL                US$657.8 million
CLEARANCE OF ARREARS
Date:                -        Day I    .------------   -Day 30--  ---------Day 60 plus---------
Purpose:             Clear   Clear   Clear    Clear      Balance   Clear    Clear
Arrears  Arrears  Part of  US       of Arrears Arrears   Par
to INF   to Ws   Arrears   Bridges    to IDB   to IFAD   Bridge
to IDB
Ftirncing:          254.6   225.8    127.4   143.2       45.2       4.8      82.0
1. Panama            134.7    2.3
2. US grant                   72.2     57.8
3. US bridges        83.0    60.0
4. ItF                                         83.0
5. World Bank                                  60.0
6. Japan cofinancing
7. IDB cofinancing                                       45.2      4.8      60.0
8. Taiwan                                                                   40.0
9. France grant               3.0
10. Panama bridge            40.0      42.0
11. Addit. Panamanian
contrfbution      36.9    48.3      27.6
Memorandum Items (in sillions of US$)
Total stock of arrears to the IFIs                                657.8
End-1989 arrears at end-1989 exchange rates                        545.0
Total upfront Panamanian contribution2/                           331.8
Total net contribution from Panama                                 231.8
a  Total stock of arrears varies based on currency fluctuations.
V  Including disbursements from Taiwan (US$40 million) and XDB first tranche
(US$60 million).
O   For simplicity, this table divides grants, bridges, and other
contributions toward repayment among various IFIs. In fact, funds will be
put into one account and disbursed according to the following list of
priorities: (1) IMF and World Bank; (2) IDB; and (3) IFAD.
O   US bridges total US$143.0 million, close to the commitment of US$150
million.
o   Bridge loan repayments will also include interest for the term of bridge
financing, at the current three-month Treasury bill rate.



- 50 -
htAsn"  at 
PANAMIA Key Eonvosdc Indicators.
Actual                            Istineted                      Projected
1980    1984    1983    1986    1587    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1991    1994    1ot5    tits
Grats Domestic Product (GOP) /a.               13.1    (0.4)    4.7       3.4      2.3   (15.6)   (0.9)    3.4       4.5      5.0     5.0      5.0      .5      6.0
Gross Dme"tic 10mo  (GD?)                        0.0      3.1     4.7      4,5    (0.2)  (17.9)   (1.1)    3.3       4.6      5.0      .41      4.9     5.4     5.8
Real per Capita Gnneth late"s
Orce  Doesetis Product (GDP) /..               10.9    (2.63    J.6       1.3      0.3   (27.7)   (3.0)    3.4       2,6      3.1     $.1      3.1     1.4      4.2
Total Consumption                               (3.8)    6.9    (0.4)   (2.7)   (0.4)  (30.6)    7.6    (5.5)    4,6          1.1      1.7      1.3     3.1     3.'.
Private aconsmption                             (6.4)    9.4    (0.3)   (3.4)   (1.5)  (20.6)   17.8    (7.3)    3.4          3.2      4.8     4.0      1.5     4.0
Debt Zndtattora. lb.
etlDOD (Killicn 08$  lo.                   2.974   4,369   4,759   4.933   5,640   4.686   5.037   5,360   3,413   3.336   6.048   i.194   6.256   6.507
Total DODUIports 068 (1) Ic.                    70.3    65.5    87.5   108.9   153.3   203.2   219.3   221.6   201.6   294.9   203.8   190.7   174,2   124.4
Total DODoiurrent GOP (5  lc.                   83.6    93.7    97.1    95.9   106.2   103.0   110.7   112.8   107.4    99.4   106.6   100.2    93.3    69.5
Debt sertvie lILT (MiLllton US$)                 466     537      410     471      392       31       8      106     17)      528      441     504      482     433
Debt service lITIEports 068 (2)                 11.0    10.5      7.5    10.4      9.2      1.3     0.3      4.4     6.6    19.1    16.2    15.7    13.6        6.3
Debt "writs IILTIOurrnt GOP (2)                 13.1    11.8      8.4      9.2     7.2      0.7     0.2      2.2     3.4      9.$      8.4     8.2      7.2     4,6
Interest =i  (Kmiion U8$)                        352     204      303     322      233       10           359          71     122      206     300      305     332
Interest IMTlCurrent GDP (1)                     7.1     6.7      6.3     6.3      4.3     0.2      0.0      1.2     1.4      3.3     1.6      4.8      4.3     3.5
ntetrest WSULIEports 0   (1)                     6.0     6.0      3.6     7.1      5.4     0.4      0.1      2.4     2.7      4.4      6.9     9.2      8.6     6.4
Rational Accounts (chard, of current GD?).
Total Investuent                   ~~~~~~27.7    16.7    15.4    16.7    17.5   6.9     3.6    16.3    14.2    16.2    27.1    18.2    18.         17.5
Public finaL                                   7.4     6.9      4.6     4.1      3.6      3.3     1.9      1.3     3.4      4.0     4.0      3.0      4.5     3.8
Private fixe"  Id.                            20.)     9.6    20.5    13.6    13.9        4.6     0.9    13.0    11.9    12.2    13.1    13.2    13.5    13.7
National Savings,                               18.3    13.7    13.5    17.5    17.2    12.4        2.3      6.3     $.0    10.2    11.3    14.9    34.9    16.3
Public I..                                     3.7     2.5      3.3     3.3      3.0    (9.2)  (10.3)   (1.8)   (0.3)    1.4         2.3     4.6      5.2     6.8
Private                                       14.6    11.2      9.3    14.0    14.2    31.6    12.6    10.1        8.3      8.8     8.8    30.1       9.7     9.3
Porel. gnavings                                  9.4     3.0      2,9    (0.6)    0.3    (5.)    0.3         6.0     6.2      6.0      6.0     3.3      3.1     1.4
2CO0.                                            0.2     1.0      2.3     3.1      5.2    (1.2)   (7.7)    0.8       3.5      2.6      3.2     3.1      3.2     2.9
Ron Pinanci  Public Sector (as 2 of current GOP)s
ToalCuret Reep.I.                          38.7    31.7    31.3    30.6    32.1    23.2    33.8    30.3    31.8    32.7    33.3    31.0    30.4    30.5
Total Current Expenditures                      235.0    29.3    26.0    27.1    29.1    32.6    34.1    33.0    32.1    31.3    30.0    26.2    25.7    23.7
Publia Savings                                   3.7     2.3      3.2     3.5      1.0    (9.4)  (10.3)   (1.6)   (0.3)    1.4         2.3     4.8      5.2     6.8
Capital Revenue                                    0       0        0        0       0      0.0     0.0      0.1     0.0      0.0      5.3     1.0      0.5     0.5
Capital Expenditures 6 Rot Lending               8.9     8.0      4.9     4.8      4.0      1.3     1.2      1.3     2.4      4.0     4.0      5.0      4.5     3.6
Overall Balance                                 (5.2)   (5.5)   (1.7)   (1.3)   (1.0)  (10.7)  (11.5)   (2.9)   (2.7)   (3.6)    3.6           0.8      1.2     3.5
Saloene of Papeentet
Epr.01(real growth rate)                38.2    (6.4)    9.0    (4.0)   (2.0)   (9.2)   (0.7)    1.9          7.7     3.4      6.0      6.6     7.0      7.0
Eaportt  WISICtrrsnt GOP                        46.2    38.2    39.7    36.9    35.3    38.0    37.5    38.5    39.8    39.6    40.9    41.9    42.9    47.8
leporte GM1  (real gtrot)) rate)                37.6    (4.7)    3.6   (12.6)    0.0   (34.5)   14.7    30.7         7.1      4.1      5.4     5,9      5.6     4.1
leporta GRYSlurrent GOP                         47.71   37.3    36.8    31.6    30.8    34.1    37.9    37.3    37.6    37.6    38.8    39.6    40.2    43.3
Import Elasticity                                3.0    34.2      3.3   (10.8)    0.0      9.6   (19.1)   10.5       1.7      0.8      1.3     1.3      1.1     1.3
Reacurce SelancelCurreut GDP                    (1.5)    1.0      3.9     5.4      4.3    13.9      9.5      1.2     2.3      2.3      2.3     23.      2.7     4.4
Current Account 8a3a-olCurrant GDP if.          (9.0)   (3.0)   (3.5)    0.8    (0.1)    7.1    (1.0)   (8.7)   (6.9)   (6.8)   (6.8)   34.2)   (4.0)   (2.3)
Teme  of Trade Index (1980.100)                100.0    93.9    93.8    64.2   106.3   108.3   13.03    99.9   103.0   101.8   100.8   100.2    99.7   100.0
Prices and Exbobage Rate 
Cooeier Prce Inex (anual  ) I's         14.5      1.0     0.4      0.4     0.9      0.3    .0.3      1.1      1.5     1.5      1.1     2.9      2.8     2.8
toninal  xchange Rate, (CIUS)                    1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      2.0     1.0      1.0      2.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0
GDP (million 8$),                                3.559   4.566   4,903   5.145   5.310   4,351   4,549   4.750   5.039   5.370   3,723   6.163   6,704   9.366
Rote.,
to. All GOP figures for 1980 tincud, the incorporation of the Canal activities to the Panamanian Economy. Real GDP growth excluding thoea activitIes
was 6.01 to 1980.
lb. Riotorical data through 1987 it from World Debt Tables 1990.91 (cash basis). Fron 1988 to 1993, debt data is based on tMP historical and projected
debt. from 1994 to the year 3000, debt date to based on DRS estimated pipeltine.
la. includee accumulation of arrears. 1988.1993 Stocks include currency adjuetuente.
Id. Include, change in etocke.
le. tncludes ell other agencies.
If. Excludes Official Capital Orants. This accounts f or the diacrepancy witht foreign
/g. 1991.93 figuree ore 281 projections. In the 1994.99 perict. CP to aProjected to
cbang in line with international inflation (0.3 30W).



- 51 -
13A*A4 - NATIONAL A0000318
1989 Por Capita 031l USn o8     1780.0                 ................                               Attacbmn  la
314.1989 Popuation (ane.)         2.27                                                                 (Pass I of 2)
Actual aI             amt.                 Projected
A. National                                ... .........o            .    .. ..   .................
(As 2 of current am                    1900    1987   los      1989    1990    19        0     1993   1993    1999
Gro"  Ucasetic Pgodu~t m.P.               100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  200.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
4IIOmlu6C                                9.0    9.3   10.5   11.0   11.0   10.0   10.6   10.4   10.0    9.0
*          ~~~~Industry                             17.3   12.2    9.        9.6   10.2   10.4   20.5   10.7   11.1   12.0
*          ~~~~(of 1bub Manufacturing)              10.0    8.3       .        .      .        .      .
sevice.                                 73.7   77.3   79.9   79.4   78.8   78.8   78.9   78.8   78.8   79.0
Uewure. Balnce                            -1.5     A 5    13.9    9.5      1.2    2.2    2.1       2.2    2.7    4.6
tport. of GM1                           46.2   35.3   38.0   37.3   38.3   39.8   39.6   40.9   42.9   47.9
Zaprtab of an1                          47. 7    30.8   24.1   27.9   37.3   37.6   37.6   38.8   40.2   43.3
Total B.p.ndituarea                       101.3    9.3.   86.1   90.5   98.8   97.8   97.9   97.8   97.3   95.4
TOWa cooaptium                          73.8   78.0   79.2   87.8   82.6   83.8   81.7   s0.7   79.3   77.9
Private ConSwumpin                    34.7   54.9   34.6   66. 1    61.0   62.2   81.5   62.5   63.2   63.2
General GO,e,.nt                       19.1   23. 1    24.6   21.7   21.6   21.4   20.3   18.2   16. 1    14.7
Gre. honeetic Zveetneut                  27.7   17.3    6.9    2.6   16.3   14.2   16.2   17.1   18.0   17.3
fixed Zuweetment                      24.3   17.6    9.0    7.2   11.5   1442   16.2   17.1   18.0   17.3
haww*e. in Stock.                      3.4   -0.2   -2. 1    -4.6      4.7     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Oro.. Onesetic Saving                     28.2   22.0   20.8   12.2   17.4   16.4   18.3   19.3   20.7   22.1
Not factor Income                        -4.3   -6.0   -8.4   -9.8   -9. 1    -8.4   -8. 1    -8.2   .5.9   .6.0
Sat Current Transfers                    0.4    1.2    1.6    1.5    2.1    3.1          5.5     1.1    0.9      0.0
44-0014 Natonal Saving                    22.1   17.2   14.0    3.9    11.4   11.1    15.7   12.2   13.7   16.1I
Actual ai             got.                 Projected
D. National Account. Growth                         . .........-..                ---------------------
(Cmoatant Wracs)                       l980    1987   1988   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993   1995    1999
cros. Domestic Product M.P.                6.0    2.3  -13.6   -0.9        3.4    4.5      5.0    5.0    5.5    6.0
Agriculture                   ~~~~~~~~-1.9   -4.0   -5.0    3.1  3.3    3.0    3.0    3.2    3.2    3.0
TaduStxy                                11.3    1.3  -35.0   -1.4        9.8    6.1      6.8    7.0    7.3    8.0
(of WhIob lanufacturin                   5.9    3.7       .        .      .        .      .
Service.                                 4.7    2.0  -12.4   -2.0        2.6    4.5    3.0       5.0    5.5    6.1
Import of GM1                           39.3   -1.9   -2.8   -0.7        1.9    7.7    3.4    6.0    7.0    7.8
imports of GM1                          16.6   -4.4  -34.1   16.9   28.3    7.1    4.3    5.4    5.8    6.1
Total Ixmpedtur..                         -1.5     1.8  -27.0    4.0   11.9    4.2         5.3    4.8    4.9    3.2
Total Coneumptimn                       -2.6     1.7  -18.5    9.7   -3.5        6.7    3.0    3.6    5.1    3.2
Private Consumption                   -4.9    0.6  -18.5   19.9   -3.4         7.3    4.1      6.7    5.4    5.0
General Government                     5.1    5.0  -18.8  -12.7        2.2    4.5   -0.3   -5.8    3.6    2.8
cross bo.oetic Inveotnent                2.4    2.4  -63.6  -62.4  526.6   -8.9   19.8   10.8    4.3    5.4
Fixed Invwearmant                      3.1    0.2  -54.5  -19.6   60.0   28.5   19.8   10.8    4.3    5.4
Capacity to Import                          ..    -9.2   -6.8   -1.4       1.6    8.0    3.4    5.8    6.8    7.6
Croas Domestic Inccome,.    -0.2  -17.9   -1.2                             3.3    4.6    5.0    4.9    5.4    5.9
Goog National Income,.                             0.1  -20.9   -2.9       4.5    3.5    5.5       5.1    5.3    5.9
Gross National Product/*                  -1.9     2.7  -18.2   -2.6    4.7    5.3    5.5    5.1    5.3    6.0
Grog. Domestic Saving                     45.7   28.4  -15.4  -41.4   52.5   -3.6   15.4   11.3    7.2    8.8
Not Curreut Tramafoer.                          -13.2   25.1   -2.1I  101.8    4.1   83.9  -79.0  -15.0  -100.0
Govss National Savin                         .    48.5  -29.7  -72.3  226.2   -4.4   45.1  -1.3.           5.5    9.4
- ~  ~  ~    . ..        .....        ......................-..................
la. 1980 figures exclude incorporation of Canal Zone.



- 52 -
.. ... .- ......  .coW. s (ct...e. d)                               so
-. ..--.--.----------------------AttFacmnt Ia
(Page 2 of 2)
.... .... . ............. . .. _._ .. _.__- ...... ......... . ......... _.... .  .... __ ..... __._ .............. . ... _.....
ctual                 get.                  Projected
C. Price tndies (1980.100)                  ....        ...... ...._._.__   .. .      _. _ _ _ _ .__
.... _._ __.___._..__ ........              logo k          los980 1  1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1995    1999
~~~~~~~._..  _. _..              .... ..... ........................... ..____ _.
C _umar Price  (IUS 64)                    100.0   118.1   118.7    119.7   120.9   122.7   124.6   126.4  130.0   1s5.6
mplicit GP DeSitor                         100.0  122.7   124.5  125.6   126.8   126.7   130.6   132.6   136.3   140.1
tmplicit itmp ituree Dflator               100.0  121.2  127.6   125.8  128.3   129.2   130.9   133.0   141.1   159.4
D. Other ldicatore.                       75-80   80-90   90.95   95-99                             1975    1980    1988
___... _ .  ,..... __.... ..... .....     ... ..... .....   -----. ----                               -.. -- . ----   ....
Growtb Fatcc (2 p.a.)                                                            Share of fetal
Populttan (N8 99e)                         2.3     2.2     1.9     1.8         Later tlrcc is
Labor Ferc,                                1.1     4.7      ..      ..             grilture        52.5    26.4    30.4
Gress Nat'l. Incom  p.c.                   1.0   .2.6      3.4     1.6            Industry         10.6   15.1    12.9
Private Co_umption p.c.                    2.4   -0.6      4.0     3.6           Service           56.7   58.5    56.7
Iwort lnticitya                                                                     etl             Ut0.0  100.0   100.0
Ipo rtc (01S) I  DPCUp)                    1.9   -0.5      1.1     1.0
Varginal Savi    Rate.s
a Wrt. ofR                                  ..      ..    0.34    0.49
as8 wrt. GDO                                ..      ..    0.56    0.45
100  lauged)                                11.1     0.5     2.8     3.1
Actual                  gat.                Projected
EL atioal Aecmts                            --- - -- -c-c
(1980 ma. slboa")                       1980    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1995    1999
Gr" Domestic Product m.p.                   3559    4328    3655    3623    3746    3915    4110    4516    4781    5979
Agric'tr                                   320     436     414     368     380      392     403     416     443      500
Industry                                  621      580     377     322     553     375      400     428     493     664
(of wh  Neuafacturing)                    356      387     300      ..      ..       ..      ..      ..
Services                                  2617    3512    2864    2933    3013    3148    3307    3471    3845    4815
Resor,e Dala                                .118     399     785     351      86      101      92     106     157      372
enrtc of GMS                              1567    1669    1622    1380    1406    1514    1566    1659    1893    2342
Imporu t of GS                            1685    1270     837    1028    1320    1413    1474    1553    1736    2171
Toal  tzpendiutrs                           5676    3929    2870    3272    3660    3814    4018    4210    4624    5607
Teotl Coumpti                             2690    3196    2603    3177    3066    3273    3370    3492    3787    4:89
Private Conaumptioe                    2010    2373    1935    2392    2264    2435    2534    2704    3019    3721
Geueral Gwe      t                       680     822     668     78S     802     838      83      787     768     868
Gros. Donetic testmet                     987     734     267      95     594      541     648     719     638    1019
tie   t lvreatmt                         867     742     338     263     421      541     648     719     838    1019
Changoe In Stock.                        120      .9    -71    -168       175       0       0       0       O        0
Capacity to Iport                           1567    1284    1197    1181    1199    1295    1340    1417    1514    1629
Toa, of Trade Adjuatant                        0    -385    .425    -199    -207    -218    -226    -242    -379    -913
Gross DameatiI tncom                        3539    3943    3230    3424    3539    3696    5884    4074    4402    5066
Grose  Ratioatl toce.                       5398    5662    2904    3063    3207    337      3566    3745    4146    4748
Om  National Prodwct                        539     4067    3329    3262    3414    3595    3792    3987    4525    5662
GrM* Domestic Sing                           869    113    1052      448      680     642     741     824      994    1390
net Pecter tncome                         -161    -261    -326    -361    -332    -319    -318    -329    -256    -317
rma* Rational SavIng                         721     920     787     141     461      441     640     541      777    1075
ebea Preli17ma    an  projected data are bsed on NM  estimatoe.



- 53 -
FARMA -  MTBUXL TROAD                      Ann" it
.........  ......                     Attacheent lb
Actual,            Pro.                projected
A. VolUme. vlue sad Pros
Merchandis exVports
..  .. ........         -Volufm Index 1980-100 -------------------
Cottee                                   100.0  3.2 2.5 195.1  202.5  223.3  341.3  252.1  269.0  291.3
Banana                                   100.0  124.8  122.0  154.7  148.)  143.9  140.3  157.6  169.7  162.)
Sugar                                    100.0   40.2   23.6   17.3   57.4   82.2   332.   34.5   25.9   37.3
Shrimp                                   100.0  111.3   90.4  133.6   9643   9643   99.2  103.6  109.0  118.6
Other                                    100.0  102.4  101.3  103.4  104.4  133.4  124.0  122.9  142.9  154.2
Tots) March. Exptor                   100.0  116.2  103.7  104.9  109.3  117.3  110.3  1235.2  134.4  144.9
..............-.Valu.-Cur:.nt Prics (Millo 8)............
Coffee                                    10.2   10.0   20.6   10.6   13.8   14.7   26.3   10.4   25.2   44.
anon"e                                    61.6   85.7   65.3   83.5   89.4   08.8   92.4  100.6  110.0  172.6
Sugar                                     63.8   17.0    6.3   10.2   36.8   26.7   21.0   33.2   25.2   28.6
Shrim                                     4S.7   65.5   51.9   62.8   44.4   49.1   53.0   56.8   69.7  110.8
Other                                     90.5  145.8  156.8  157.4  169.6  304.5  212.7  2335.3233.3  462.4
TOWa March. Iqmort. P0                371.6  322.0  330.8  3222.7  354.0  283.8  295.   423.4  522.3  839.7
Nerchandice Imports
........    .              --- -        -------------Volume Index 1980.100 -              ------------------
good                                   100.0  131.7   81.9  103.8  110.4  114.2  119.9  133.6  133.2  143.0
Other Consumer Go"od                   100.0  119.2  119.2  153.9  303.8  307.9  264.0  376.5  292.3  310.9
Petrdole, end flerivativee             100.0   55.6   55.6   58.7   60.6   70.5   75.6   80.3   06.9   94.7
inte'roedia4,                          100.0  142.0  166.8  230.9  269.6  395.7  221.8  223.5  348.9  368.2
capit Gal"06                           100.0   91.9   91.9   84.9  122.0  155.4  106.2  304.32131.2  334.7
Total March. Impotts                  100.0  103.7   61.7    7.3.   98.1I  105.8  110.2  116.8  122.9  1323.0
-------------VALMe.Ourrest piceso Olillion 8)-                  --...........-
food                                    123.0  151.8  119.4  142.9  135.2  145.1  157.4  174.0  118.7  249.4
Other Consmeor Goode                    253.0  503.1  3222.7  417.4  281.0  607.6  792.2  863.3  1036.8  1505.2
Petroleum a berlvetive.                 424.4  196.2  145.0  182.4  246.4  240.6  251.2  203.4  265.7  711.6
aotrmeadiat.                            129.4  197.0  155.5  186.   227.3  390.3  324.8  245.9  390.2  454.7
Capital Good.                           328.7  357.2  149.6  127.1  208.1  370.5  232.1  279.6  477.7  674.2
Towal Mrch. import. CIt               1298.5  1302.7  095.2  1067.2  1548.0  1654.1  1759.9  1946.4  2297.1 2692.1
Term, of Trade Indico
.  ....    .......------- -----  ---Priue Indie.s 1980.100-.-.-.................
Hmrcabudieo Exports                    100.0  104.0  115.1  112.5  118.4  119.6  121.9  126.4  146.   216.7
Merchandise UWitort                    100.0   97.9  106.2  108.2  118.5  117.2  119.8  123.4  146.9  216.7
Nerchndlee Terms, of Trade             100.0  106.3  108.2  102.9   99.9  102.0  101.8  100.8   99.7  100.0
D. As 2 of Total (current prices)       C.Cro.th Rates (Z)(coustant priceal
Actual   get.   Projected                       ctual Bat.1I  Projected
Moerhanis exIports                        1980   1990   1995   1999,                    80-89    199   90.95  95-99
Coffee                                     2.6    3.9    4.7    5.2                       7.7   52.0    4.9    5.5
Bamnsast                                  22.7   25.3   22.2   20.0                       2.4   10.1    4.2    8.0
Sgagr                                     24.3   sO.4    4.8    4.7                     -12.5  111.0   -8.2    4.0
Shrimp                                    16.1   12.5   12.1   13.4                      3.3  -31.4    2.6    7.7
other                                     22.32   47.9   25.1   55.8                      0.2    2.0    8.0    8.0
Total Merch. Exports P0               100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                       0.2    4.2    5.6    7.7
Merchandise Imprts
rood                                     9.5   10.0    9.1    9.5                       0.3   15.2    2.4    6.2
Other Cosumer Goods                     37.2   27.2   42.2   40.7                       4.9   31.7    6.7    5.7
Petroleumi ad Derivatives               22.7   15.9   15.2   19.2                      -2.8    3.3    6.8    8.6
Intermediate,                           10.7   22.1   12.4   12.3                       8.2   61.3   -6.6    7.0
Capital Go"oe                           19.9   12.4   19.0   18.3                      -1.8   42.6   14.2    5.0
Total March. Imports CTu              100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                      -3.5   25.7    6.1    6.3
-------------- -----------------------------------------------
it. Sugar emport gr..th iu 1990 reflects the reintattement of the U.S. quota.



- 54 -
1*A01  * 3*141C0 Of VAMITS                         Aex11
(05  Killion)                              Atteolmmnt la
Actual           Se~Rt.                 Projected
BALANE 0a  PAlInl                              90      18       98       99      19       91      193      19        95     19
A. Epot7f -d    ws 31.4                                ,76   1,729     (.70    1,03    2.004 218 2.4              207        44
1. 1(rhcie(103)                              272     552      531      524     554      584      595     45       5i2      850
2. Iqn-P.ctor Somerce                      1.373   1.544   1.400   1.58    19475   1,620   1,753   1,900   2.346   5,654
S.   Importoet of God 4 Ws8                  It9"   1,636   1.096   1.271   19774   1.692   LOU1   2.218   2,694   4.054
A. Mterchandise. (M0)                      1.159   1.176      014      970   1,407   1,504   1.600   1,749   2,179   3.558
2.  cma-factor Services                      550      440     262      S01     566      589      417      448     517      495
C.   Resource, telene                           (53)    259     454      454       55      112     III      135      lot     450
0.   not Factor icmem                         (205)   (320)   (585)   (446)   (454)   (425)   (436)   (460)   (393)   (565)
1. Factor Raeept.                         2,504   1.351      577      593     59       603      610     621      672      741
2. Vector Payment.                        (2,071) (1,671)   (940) (1,059) (1,024) (1,020) (1,044) (1,009) (1,045) (1,306)
&.Total Interest Paid                     (340)   (500)    (11)       (2)    (02)   (101)   (155)   (216)   (526)   (556)
b. Interest Arraears                         0        0    (554)   (405)   (347)   (310)   (209)   (242)          (0)     (0)
c.other factor payment. 1.1           (2,623) (1,371)   (594)   (652)   (594)   (609)   (623)   (631)   (739)   (970)
S.   Net Current Tranafere 2.1                 (52)    (49)    (40)    (54)    (55)    (36)    (42)    (45)    (40)    (00)
1. Current Aceant Balance
1. Before Officia  Grants,                  (308)   (130)    211       (46)   (414)   (349)   (366)   (590)   (271)   (216)
2. Officia  Granto                            47      114     112      105      10)     194      540      110     1210      00
3. After Official Grafts                    (5322)    ( 16)    323      is    (250)   (156)    (27)   (260)   (151)   (154)
0 . NIL Teom Capital Inflow                    361    (264)    546       439      210     24"       65      332      224     52
1.Neat Direct Investment                     (47)     5 1     (47)      37      54       43       70       00     125      200
a.NEot 161. Text L.omme                      400    (400) (1,030)   (533)   (405)   (288)   (349)          10     101      123
a. Dieburaseemnt                          400     104       57        35      5        0      520     20S      279      234
b.. Rapay.ento                              0    (592) (1.007)   (535)   (410)   (208)   (597)   (275)   (170)   (101)
3. Other 361. Toer  Inflmo. 3.1                0      173   1,422      955     540      475      264,    224        0        0
B.   TotaJl Other Item. (net)                  527    (305)   (669)   (404)    552          51     145        0        0       0
1. Not Oort Term epitel                       45        1       0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0
2. Capital Fliwes.31    4.1                    0      145    (165)   ( 155)    351       32      145        0       0        0
3. Error. and Omieeiona                      28)    (449)   (504)   (551)        22       0        0        0        0       0
0       0       (0)       0      (0)       0        0      (0)      (0)      (0)
I .   Chane in get Reeots,                    (54       I0    1           (1)   (3532)   (122)   (184)    (52)    (75)   (108)
() indicate. increeee
1. Not Credit tr   tbe  W3                   (I0)    (56)       0       (1)    (70)    (35)    (70)       43      (40)    (S0)
Suar" of Gop (current W0$)I
1. Resource Balance                           I.1.      4.5    15.9      9.5      1.2     3.2      2.1      2.2     2.7      4.6
2. OTU  Intereet Poaymet.                     .7.0    .5.7    .0.2    -0.0    -1.7    -2.0    -2.5    .5.8    ..4.9    -5.6
5. Current AccounVt Balanc,                   -9.0    -0.5      7.1      1.3    -4.8    -5. 1    -0.5    .4.9    -2.5    .1.4
4. LT? Capital inflow (line C)                10.1    .5.0      7.6      9.4      4.4     4.9      1.2      5.8      5.4     5.5
5. Not Credit free the IM                     .0.5    .1.1I    0.0    .0. 0    -1.5    -1.1    -1.5         0.8    -0.6    -0.5
foreign Zxcanoge Resermes
1. IntVl. Reserves (afs 114)                   117       is      72      119    .         .       .
3. Gold (nat. vol., US loand)                    4     .        .       .        .       ..        .
3. Reserves Level (uct of assets)              455      S91    (579)   (579)   (11)    (50)         44      159      636     641
4. Not Roo, in bouth. Impots                   .                (4.1)   (3.4)   (0.6)   (0.3)    0.4        0.9      1.2     1.9
Rachauge, Rate. (Blue$)$
1. Nom. Off. I-Sate (116 .e)
2. Real 3ff. I9-RAte Baas 1900                 1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
3. I-Rato for OF? Conversion                   1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
Nemorandue Item,
CDP (068 bilio)                              3.559   5,510   4,551   4.549   4,750   5,059   5,570   5,725   6,706   9.566
COp turf. mill. Balboa.                      3,559   5,510   4,551   4,549   4,750   5,059   5,570   5,725   6,704   9,566
1./ Inclue. Dividend Repatriation. 2.1 Includes only Private, Capital Granta.
3.1 include. Debt eavilce Arrners.
4.1 Include. leer.. Funds and Ref inancing of Arrears.



- 55 -
Annaz II
PAIM  - MUM           CM4 AND OMT                            .....
. .....,. ...................... . .                       Attcbeut Id
(as8 Vifioe)                                         (Pa.. I Of 3)
. . ....... . ......... ... . ___._ . ....... ...... . . ...... _.__.._.... .............. ......................
Actual 1/          got.                 Ptojectd
__.. ...... ..................... _....................................... _.... ............_
A. Dibireemente                              1980    1987    1980    1989    1990    1991    1S92    19S3    1995f   1999
1. PUUbI  & P.Ouar. LT                       405      142      57        s                      u 0  s38  285   279      224
offiial Creditors                        95       52      43        1       0       0      328     283     266      204
Mlttiteratl                            68       41       0        0       0       0      213     257     241      174
Of iwbb    D                         20       16       0       0        0       0      90      114      90      67
of dubio vA                           0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0
Bilsteral                              27       11      43        1       0       0      115      25      25       30
Pvate Creditors                         310       90      15        2       s       0        0       3      13       20
Supplier                               13        8      15       2        5       0       0        3      IS       20
Pinen" c   srk.ts a                   297       82       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
2. Privsto Nou. at. LT                          0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0
S. Total LT Diebiabrmte                      405      142      57        5       5       0      328     285     279    2*4
4.W  turebsess                                  0      14       0        0       0       0      126      $3       50       0
5. Sbort-T.r Capital                            0     160       0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0
6. Unidetifid Seurcme                           0       0       0        0      (0)      0       (0)      0        0       0
7. Total (all surce.)                        405      316      57        3       5       0      454     338     329      224
8. spayuetass
1. Publa  6 P.Osar. LT                       204      158      21        6      47     102      406     275     178      101
Officil Creditors                         16     107       2        2      *4      96      400     115      86       86
Multtlateral                             9      61       1        0      42      95      354      91      76       54
Of wbcbl lD                           6       35       1       0       40      56     173       48      37      32
Of  cbp IDA                           0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0                0
Bilateral                               9       46       0        1       1       0      45       22      10       31
Private Creditere                        186      51      19        4       4       6        6     162      92       15
S-uppler                               23        9       1       3        2       6       6       *4       3       10
Vinanai warkote at                    163       42      18        1       2       0        0     118      89        S
2. Pgvate ton-ar. Lt                            0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0
3. tidentifId Souroe0 0                                 0                                                         0        0    
4. Total LTRIepayusts                         204     158      21        6      47     102      406     275      178     101
S. M  Ropurcbaaes                              17      73       0        1      70      55      196      10      90       50
6. Anortisation Arrears                    ..       ..      1,06       530     234     166    16         0        0       0
C. lutereat,
1. Public& P.Ouar. LT                         151     227      1o        2      S9      71      122     S0"     305      532
ofteil Creitors                           35      84       3        0      56      68       87     105     119      18l
*ltilateral                            20       67       2        0      55      67       54      62      97      135
Of  icbl noD                         12       54       1        0      3S      35      23       24      38      47
O fvbcb ID                            0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
Bilateral                              15       17       1        0       1       2       32      45      21       26
private Creditors                        118     143       8        2       S       3       #5     101     186      171
Supplier.                               11       I       I        1       2       3        5       S       5        7
PiUsuial Markets  2.1                 105      136       7        1       0       0        0o    96      I8s      164
2. Private 3 -Uar. LT                           0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0
3. Total LT Interest                          151     227       10       2      59      71      122     206     305      332
4. fln   Sevic  Cbrgo                           3      25        0       0      23      SO       13      10       21       4
5. Iutert paid on ST Dobt                       2       9        0       0       0       0        0       0        0       0
6. unientified 6wr,e                            0       0        0       0       0       0       (0)     (0)       0       0
7. Total Cal  sourece)                        156     261       11       2      82     101      135     216      326     358
S. Interest Arrears                          ..        16     36       405     326     306      286     242        0       0
eoM  Tot. ArrarU  (Mort.+Ut.)                ..      ..      1,422     935     560      473     472     242        0       0
......................................... ......................................... ....................-..  -- --  -- -**-  -  --  .. --. .. ... ..... ..... .... ........................................._*- 
1.1 Diatoric*l data tbrouAb 1987 i  from  orld Debt Tables 1990-9s   . from 1988 to 1995, data i  based on III bietorical
and estimated debt. From 1994 to 2000. debt data io bsed on DM  estiatted pipel   (teO  b basis).
*.1 IucAdes bonds. Undr repa*eate also itnludes St.



- 56 -
An." It
PAUAE  - MmL  CAIAL AM M.
. _ . _ __ . _ _.___ ~~~~~ttacbmt 14
(U84 wUiose)                                      (PA" 2 Of 2)
Actal 1.;             Ect.                Projected
0. Eetrmal Debt (tW) bI                   1980    17    19S8    1969   1990   1991    1992    1993    1995    1999
.__.__.....................            ................... .............. . .... ........... ............ _ _......._._._.......... ___
1. "ublic 4 P.Guar. LT                   2.271   4.034  3.978   3.928  4*041  3I882   3.804  4*101  4,249   4,691
Offtil Crida  t                       505   1.637   1,622   1,62)   1.690   1,s37   1,465   1,921   2,251   2,823
lltitaerl                            S27   1,081   1.029   1,024   1.020    918     797   1,225   1.523  2,071
of  cb 28RD                       13)    523    478    465    462    405    519           507    602      764
of vhchL.                           0       0       a       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Bilateral                           278    356    593    5S9        670    599      668    696      726    752
Private Creditora                   1,666   2,417  2,356   2,505  2,3)2  2.545   2.359   2,180   1,098   1,667
Suppliers                           126      69    195    195    213    213         207     186    200    a55
Financial Vevkste o1              1,540   23148   2,161  2,110   2,138   2,132   2,132   1,994   1,798   1,612
2. Private ln-ar. LT                         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
3. total Loag.T. MD                      2.271   4,054  5,978   5,928   4,191  4,065   S,994   4,291   q.4U9   4,767
4. Ut? Credt                                23    346    330    320    272    212          141    345      374     184
5. Sbort-Tom Debt                          680   1,240     378    769   1.047   1,320   1.390   1,632   1,632   1,632
6. onidetified Snuree                        0       0       0       0       0       0      (0)    (0)       0       0
7. Total ( all seuress ) (ex*. ref.)     2,974   5.640  4,686   5,037  5,360  3,413   5,J16   6,098   6,236   6.507
8. Actulated Artears                       680   1,240   1,752   2,705   5,093   3,547   3,352  35.94   5,594   35394
A. hAortaticn Arrears                   ..      16   1,174   1,914   2,046  2.227   1,962   1,962   1,962   1,962
B. Interest Arrears                     ..       .      78    789   1,047   1,320   1,390   1,632   1,632   1.6132
*IV    n In  Arrear                   ..      ..       0       0    150    182       190     190    190       76
Share of PublUc LT D0Ds
1. On Concesaaonal Tom                    18.92   9.72    9.72   10.02    9.92      ..      ..
2. With Varible lat. Ret.e                81.12   57.92   57.8S   58.62   58.2n     ..      ..
E. BDau and RclAtat
1.t828 to totl LT WD  (lce 3)              5.92   12.92   12.02   11.82   11.02    9.92    8.02   11.82   15.62   16.02
2.19 to total LT 80  (l1. 3)               0.02    O.OX    0.OX    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02
4.ISRD to total LT DS (Ine 3)              5.12   17.9X    6.52    2.62   69.52   53.02   57.22   15.02   15.52   18.22
$.IDA to total U  DS (Uro  3)              0.02    0.OX    O.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    O.O    0.0    0.02    0.02
P. DOD-to-aorte 0"S
,....._______......
1. Lang-Term Debt                         53.62  121.62  172.S2  170.92  173.32  155.82  14S.S8  I44.8x  125.02   91.21
2.    CrCvedit                             0.52   10.72   14.35   13.92   11.22    S.12    5.22   12.52  10.S5    3.52
3. Short-Tem Debt                         16.12 Z 3.42   16.42   14.52   41.32   50.62   50.82   55.12   46.02   11.22
4. Lt+W+ST MDO                            70.52  174.8X  203.22  219.22  227.82  214.62  201.02  212.22  181.62  126.02
G. P08-to-currant GOP
..... ....... __,..
1. Long-TerS  DebtIODP                    63.82   76.52   87.42   8.42   88.22   80.62   74.42   75.02   66.22   50.92
2. VW CreditloDF                           0.62    6.32    7.22    7.02    s.72    4.21   2.62    6.42    5.62    1.02
3. Short-T0rn DebtIODP                    19.1S   23.42    8.52   17.32   22.02   U6.22   25.n9  28.S    3 4.52   17.42
4. LTfW+T ?.SV  Dlc                       8s.62  106.22  io.02   1o.7n  116.0x  11.O8  102.9x  1o0.92   96.12   70.35
B. Debt ServSca/Zpontc O1
1. Public & Ouaranteed Lt                  8.42   11.92    1.52    o.32    4.41    6.62   19.52   16.21   15.62    8.52
2. Private NB=.Gaot*ed LT                  0.02    0.O    0.02    0.02    O.O8    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.O    0.82
3. Total LT Debt Sotviee                   8.42   11.92    1.32    0.32    4.42    6.62   19.35   16.32   13.62    8.32
4. .t? Repuvchases+Ssrv.Cb$s..             0.5X    3.02    0.02    0.02    5.92    5.22    7.7     0.7  o. .12    1.02
5. intereet Only on ST Debt                O.OZ   0.32    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.O0    0.02    O.Ox    0.02    0.O0
6. Tetal (LT+DF+ST lnt.)                   8.92   15.22    1.35    0.42    8J.1    9.92   26.92   16.92    6.7n    9.32
I.  teret nsurd" latio
1. Total Intereetlcurrent 0DP              4.42    4.92    0.22    0.02    1.72    2.02    2.52    3.82    4.92    5.62
2. total Ist*v.tlz/port  GU8               3.72    8.12    O.S2    0.12    3.42    5.92    4.92    7.32    9.22    6.42
1.1 Sietoutal eate throng  1987 is fa  World Debt table. 1990.91. rom 1988 to 1993, data iSc based ec Dlt historil
and oettoeted debt. Prom 1994 to 2000, debt data is based an DS estimatd pipelina (Cash bagti).
a./ 1ocludCe bo-ds. Under repsymnts pla  tacuode  SS.
b.1 Is9-1992 Stoclis include curreny adjusttmet. Stocks Iclude aaortintto arres. ST atock ieluede  interet
arrears.



- 57 -
Annex It
PAUAMA - 1031.C ?1U4A0, KMOl  AM  CSXDt?
............... PDLS      ............                                   IsN  S    JEI
----------------------------------tt eotmt lo
........ ............_. _.__.........__.__........... _^.,_.,,,,,___.__...................................................,,._..........___,.___ _.
t. Consolidated VW  ublic Sector                      Actual             2t.                   Projected
...... ..... _._,.,__............... ..... ....... ..    ... .__ ....................    ....   ............. ._....._.__...... ____........... __....,
(io Miilions  of B.)                    1960    1987    1968    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1995    1999
A. Total Current Reecipts              1,006   1,705   1,07)   1,083   4,43S   1,600   1,752   1,850   2,072   2,851
1. Tax Raveau  11                       9S1   1,11      83$     81a     996   1,070   1,169   1,263   1,455   2,033
3. Non-Tax Current Recotpts 21           47      437     134      132     251     3a6     327      381     483     678
3. Op. Surplus of Pub. Ent.              44      150     104     139      188     205     257      206     134      140
S. Total Current  mpanuditures           891   1,343   1,491   1,551   1,519   1,617   1,679   1,717   1,726   2.215
C. Currnut tudget BSlaloe 3               117     160    (418)   (460)    (84)    (16)       73     133     347     636
D. Capital Emp. 8 Not Lending            314      211      59      55       60     120     213      229     302     356
R. Capital Revene                          13      (0)      0       0        4       a       3      303      34       5
P. Ov rall  alaeo Ffuaed bys            (184)    (51)   (477)   (513)   (140)   (134)   (137)    107         79     285
1. Offiial Capital Gronts                 2        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0
2. Kztemual Borroa    (nt)              226       36     403     418      140     134    17    (207)    (79)   (285)
3. Doeatti   Ftu  US                     (44)     15      83     105        0       0       0        0       0        0
As percent of Current ODPa
A. Total Current Receipts               28.3    32.1    23.6    23.8    30.2    31.8    32.7    32.3    30.9    30.4
1. Tax Revese I1                       25.8    21.0    18.3    17.9    21.0    21.2    21.8    22.1    21.7    21.7
3. Ron-Tax Currant Receipts 21          1.3      8.2     2.9     2.9      5.3     6.5     6.1      6.7     7.2      7.2
3. Op. Surplua of Pub. Ent.             1.2      2.8     2.3     3.0      4.0     4.1     4.8      3.6     2.0      1.5
B. Total Currmat  Vpeditures            25.0    29.1    32.8    34.1    32.0    32.1    31.3    30.0    25.7    23.7
C. Currant Budget Bles 3/                3.3      3.0   -9.2   -10.3    -1.8    -0.3        1.4     2.3     5.2      6.8
D. Capital ixp. & nbt Lending            8.8      4.0     1.1     1.2      1.3     2.4     4.0      4.0     4.5      3.8
2. Capital Bevenuo                       0.4    -0.0      0.0     0.0      0.1     0.0     0.0      5.3     0.5     0.1
P. Overall Balanc  Financed by*         -5.2    -1I0   -0.S  -11.5   -2.9    -2.7    -2.6          3.6     1.2     3.0
1. Officitl Capital crats               0.1      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
2.  xternal Borrow$sg (nat)             6.3      0.7     8.9     9.2      2.9     2.7     2.5    .3.6   .1.2    -3.0
3. Domestic Finsancg                   -1.2      0.3     1.8     2.3      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
G. ODP (rill. Balboa.)                 3,559   5,310   4,551   4,549   4.750   5.039   5.370   5,723   6,706   9.366
11 Central Oeverment tax revenues and contributions to CSS.
21 Includes no-tea revenue of Central Goverment and Other Agencieat Revenue.
S1 Bacludes Orants-In-aid.



-58 -
PUSLCe PUm8      , I IP 4D  0C2801  (cdt.)           AmItt
..   _.__ .........___........... __.__ ..........Att           t I_
Actul                                         Grotah (S)
t1. *oy &ad Credit                           1980    1984    1985     1986    197    1988    1969    1990  1980.89   19
... ..__.___ .......                     ............ .... .....____.___..... ____........... _._._.__._........ .... ...... .........._. __... .
A.tn slItaus ef ta13..s
tny Supply (34)                               333     30I     410      450     442     t04      307     435    -1.0    41.0
*oy +Quo*14Wy (34+35)                       1,316   1,843   1,953   2,360   2.378   1,649   1,600   2,184        2.2    36.5
Total not Os:tc Credit                     2,313   3,328   3.422   3,458   3,711   J,114   3,091   2,692         3.3   -12.9
To aemeent (uts) (328z)                      342     792     822      774     674     642      624     209    11.1  -64.5
To Offiiol KutitAsr (3b)                     ..      ..       .
To Privste Setor (32d)                    2,071   2,537   2,600   2,684   3,037    .472,  2.468   2,483         2.0     0.4
Net loret4  Asset* (31I)                      (605)   (512)   (353)   (211)   (600)   (904)   (704)       56      2.9   107.2
All Other Utes (uts) (37r)                     423   1,047   1,209   1,285      920     665      617     672      4.2     9.0
B.Offset. to epuion   f Iqt (tn US,
Net Forve SAn Ace                            146.8   (76.6)  176.7    34.9   473.6    48.4  (248.9)  143.9
Credit to GOwe  t                             15.1   179.9    $4.0  (11.9)  121.3       5.1    37.3   (70.9)
Credit to Officil e    tts                      ..      ..       *.      .-      *.       .-      ..       ..     ..t..
Credit to Private Soctor                     (32.4)   20.2    70.1    49.8  (186.4)   89.7       9.5     2.6
met Other Asets a Libetlits                  (29.4)  (23.5) (180.8)    7.2  (307.5)  (43.3)  302.1    24.5
2                                             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
_ ____.............. ____........... _____.............____.__...............______................._____......... .... __._........._._____................... ____...._



- 59 -
Annex III
Attachment i
Page 1 of 2
PANAMA: Financial Program for the Mon-Financial PubLic Sector, 1990-93
................................................... ...................
(Miltions of USO)
1990     1991      1992     1993
CURRENT REVENUES                    1457      1592     1746      1842
Central Goverrment                 855       979     1016      1137
CSS                                363       355      420      442
Public Agencies                     50        53       53        57
Oper. Surplus of PSEs              189       205      257       206
CURRENT EXPENDITURES 1/             1519      1617     1679      1717
Total Wages and Salaries           574      612       619      593
WVaos and Salaries               568       599      580      556
Borms 2/                           6        13       39       37
Goods and Services                 167       189      191       186
'ransfers                          384      428       469      507
Interest                           384      383       397      431
Other                               10         5        3         0
OTHER AGENCIES, MET                   22         9        6         8
PUBLIC SAVINGS                       -84       -16       73       133
CAPITAL REVENUES                       4         2        3      303 3/
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                  60       120      213       229
OVERALL BALANCE                     -140      -134     -138       207
5mg       agC     =maZ       nun
1/ Includes severance payments of US$16.4 million in 1992 and US$36
million ln 1993.
2J Thirteenth month salary.
3/ In 1993 it includes proceeds from privatization of INTEL and other PEs.
Source: NIPPE, IMF, Bank Staff Estimates.



- 60 -
Anex III
Attachment I
Page 2 of 2
PANAMA: Firnncial Program for the Non-Financial Public Sector, 1990-93
. ,.............................................................................................................. .
(Percentage of GDP)
1990     1991     1992     193
CURRENT REVENUES                   30.7      31.6     32.5     32.2
Central Goverruent                18.0     19.4     18.9      19.9
Css                                7.6      7.1      7.8      7.7
Public Agencies                    1.1      1.0      1.0       1.0
Oper. Surplus of PSEs              4.0      4.1      4.8      3.6
CURRENT EXPENDITURES                32.0     32.1     31.3     30.0
Total Wages and Salaries          12.1     12.1     11.3      10.4
Wages and Salaries              12.0     11.9     10.8      9.8
Bonus 1/                         0.1      0.3      0.7      0.6
Goods and Services                 3.5      3.8      3.6      3.2
Transfers 2/                       8.1      8.5      8.7      8.9
Interest                          8.1       7.6      7.4      7.5
Other                              0.2      0.1      0.1       0.0
OTHER AGENCIES, NET                 -0.5      0.2      0.1       0.1
PUBLIC SAVINGS                      -1.8    -0.3       1.4       2.3
3=      C 33=     3=3=a
CAPITAL REVENUES 3/                  0.0      0.0      0.0       5.3
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                 1.3      2.4      4.0      4.0
OVERALL BALANCE                     -3.0     -2.7     -2.6       3.6
1/ Thirteenth month salary.
2V Includes severace payments.
3/ In 1993, it includes proceeds frem privatization of INTEL and other PEs.
Source: NIPPE, IMF, Bank Staff Estimates.



- 61 -
Ann" II I
Attachment f
Page I of 4
PAAA: Financial Program for the Generat overreent, 1991-93
~~~~~~~~~~~~................... ......................................... ... ....... 
(Millions of USO)
Historical      Program
l990    1991    1992    1993
GENERAL GOVERNMENT REVENUES    1375.8  1454.0  1560.8  1685.6
CENTRAL GOVT. CURRENT REVENUES  9A!.0  1046.2  1087.8  1187.1
Taxes                       633.3   714.4   748.4   830.5
Non-tax Revenue             329.7   331.8   339.4   356.6
SOCIAL SECURITY               362.5   355.4   420.1   441.9
CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC AGENCIES   50.3    52.4    52.9    56.6
CURRENT EXPENDITURES           1519.0  1616.6  1678.5  1716.9
Totat Waes                    S74.4   611.9   618.5   593.0
wages                        568.7   599.0   580.0   556.0
onus                           5.7    12.9    38.5    37.0
Goods and Services            166.5   188.9   190.6   184.6
Transfers 1./                 384.0   428.0   469.3   507.4
Interest                      384.3   383.3   397.1   431.9
Other                           9.8     4.5      3.0     0.0
CURRENT EXPEND., excl. Interest  1134.7  1233.3  1281.4  1285.0
GENERAL GOVERNMENT SAVINGS     -143.2  -162.6  -117.7   -31.3
mauw  ~ma=        m        -t
CAPITAL REVENUES                0.2     1.8      2.6   302.6
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES           33.4    71.1    94.0   110.1
OVERALL BALANCE                -176.4  -231.9  -209.1   161.2
1.1 Includes severance payments.
Source: NIPPE, IMF, Bank Staff Estimates.



- 62 -
Annex III
Attachment Ii
Page 2 of 4
PANAMA: Financiat Program for the Genmral Goverrment, 1991-93
. .............................................................
(Percentage of GDP)
Historical        Program
1990     991     1992      1993
GENERAL GOVERNMENT REVENUES          29.0      28.9     29.1      29.5
CENTRAL GMVT. CURRENT REVENUES    20.3       20.8     20.3      20.7
Taxes                            13.4      14.2     13.9     14.5
Non-tax Revenue                   6.9       6.6      6.4      6.2
SOCIAL SECURITY                     7.6       7.1      7.8      7.8
CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC AGENCIES        1.1      1.0       1.0       1.0
CURRENT EXPENDITURES                 32.0      32.1     31.3     30.0
Totat Wages                        12.1      12.1     11.5     10.4
Wages                             12.0      11.9     10.8      9.8
Bonus                              0.1       0.2      0.7      0.6
Goods and Services                  3.5       3.7      3.5      3.2
Transfers                           8.1       8.5      8.7      8.9
Interest                            8.1      7.6       7.5      7.5
Other                               0.2       0.1      0.1       0.0
CURRENT EXPEND., excl. interest      23.9      24.5     23.8      22.5
GENERAL GOVERNMENT SAVINGS           -3.0      -3.2     -2.2      -0.5
um   :u  _u                   m
CAPITAL REVENUES                    0.0       0.0      0.0      5.3
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                0.7       1.4      1.9       1.9
OVERALL BALANCE                      *3.7      -4.6     -3.9       2.9
Source:  MIPPE, IMF, Bank Staff Estimates.



ADM la
- 63 -                  Attachment it
Page 3 of 4
CENTRAL GOVEVRDENX OMNANCES1'. 1990-93
HisflrJcal Estimated      Proiected
1990     1991      1992      1993
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------_
Total Revenues                         963.0   1047.4   1089.8    1189.1
Current revenues                       958.1   1030.2   1081.8   1177.1
Tax revenue                            633.3    714.4    748.4    830.5
Income taxes                        238.8    294.8    278.3    330.1
PIT                                129.3    133.0    131.2    141.7
CIT                               109.5    161.8    147.1    188.4
Panama Canal                      10.2     29.8      28.5      30.2
PTP                               18.4     25.5      21.3      21.1
other                             80.9    106.5      97.3    137.1
Property                           40.1      35.5      37.1      39.7
Taxes on international trade       137.5    134.0    147.0    157.4
imports                          124.9    121.0    134.0    143.4
Exports                           12.6     13.0      13.0      14.0
Taxes on domestic transactions     216.9    250.1    284.0    303.3
Value added tax                   80.3     86.0      94.0    100.6
Petroleum                        71.2      94.5      98.4    103.3
Tabacco and beverages             33.1     30.8      35.2      37.0
Others                            32.3     38.8      56.4      62.5
Non-tax revenues                       324.8    315.8    333.4    346.6
Panama Canal                        68.4     73.0      75.0      79.6
Oil pipeline                        10.4      9.7       8.9       8.8
Other services                      97.0    118.3    128.0    155.7
Transfer from rest of the          149.0    114.8    121.5    102.5
public sector
Capital Revenues                         0.0       1.2       2.0       2.0
Grants                                   4.9      16.0       6.0      10.0
Current Expenditures                   1187.6   1227.2   1275.5   1299.3
Wages and salaries                    411.9    433.0    415.0    398.0
Goods and servies                     111.2    105.0    105.0    100.0
Pensions and transfers               285.0    305.7    321.0    318.6
Interest                             370.6    371.5    385.8    418.6
Other                                  8.9      12.0      48.7      64.7
Current Savings                       -224.6   -179.8   -177.7   -110.2
Capital Expenditures                    55.7      98.4    111.0    128.0
overall Balance                        -280.3   -278.2  -288 .7   -238.2
---------______---------------------------------------------------__--------
I/ Revenues are on a cash basis and expenditures are on a commitment basis.



- 64 -
AttachmenZ Li
Page 4 of 4
FINANCES OF TH4 SOCIAL SECURITY AGENCY. 1990 - 93
Historlcal  Preliminary    Proiected
1990       1991       1992    1993
CURRENT REVENUES                       362.6       355.4   420.1    442.0
Quota Payments                         285.2       280.0   297.0    297.0
Professional Risk                       22.8        22.2    23.8       25.5
Bonus                                    0.0         0.0     45.0      48.2
Complementary Scheme                    16.7        13.4    14.3       30.3
Investment Income                       26.0        24.8    25.0       26.0
Others                                  11.9        15.0    15.0       15.0
CURRENT EXPENDITURES                   469.3       542.8   573.5    591.9
Wages and Salaries                     107.7       115.0   115.0    114.0
Goods and Services                      50.1        72.9    74.6       73.0
Transfers                              311.5       352.0   377.1    398.0
Others                                   0.0         2.9      6.8       6.9
OPERATIONAL BALANCE                   -106.7      -187.4  -153.4   -149.9
Source: MIPPE.



- 65 -
Annex II
Attachment ill
Page 1 of 3
Public Sector EMMloent Reduction Program1
Przrams                                    fgNumber of EMn12yovs
1. Retirement Prozram
a) During 1991 (April-December)                      100
b)  January-June 1992                                500
c)  July-December 1992                               600
d)  January-March 1993                               350
Sub-total                                           15
General Government                         1370
Publlc Enterprises                          180
2. Voluntary LR rmM=t Proaram2
a)  During 1991 (April-December)                    1000
b)  January-June 1992                               3500
c)  July-December 1992                              4000
d)  January-March 1993                              2500
Sub-total                                          11000
General Government                        11000
Public Enterprises                           -
3. Prvyatisation Proaram
a)  During 1991 (April-December)                      -
b)  January-June 1992                               1450
c)  July-December 1992                              2700
d)  January-March 1993                              1600
Sub-total                                           ,Am
General Government                           -
Publlc Enterprises                         5750
4. Not PFllLna Exggcted Yacancies
a)  During 1991 (April-December)                      50
b)  January-June 1992                                250
c)  July-December 1992                               250
d)  January-March 1993                               150
Sub-total                                            700
General Government                          450
Public Enterprises                          250
Total                                              19000
General Government                        12820
Public Enterprises                         6180



- 66 -
Annex III
Attachment LL
Page 2 of 3
1.   The base figure of public sector employment is 125,000 as of March 31,
1991.
2.   It is assumed that there will be no replacement of these retirees (i.e.
no filling of vacancies resulting from the retirement programs).
3.   Vacancies created by factors other than the retirement programs
mentioned in items 1 and 2, so as to avoid double counting of
reductions.



Annex I I I
Attechment iII
Page 3 of 3
PANAMA: PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYMENT REDUCTION PROGRAN TARGETS 1t
AND RESULTING SAVINGS: BY QUARTERS, 1991-1992
. ..... .... ...... ...... ............. ........................... ....
Public Sector
Ceaponents                                Enyloyment Reduction (Number of Eqployees)                    Savings, Annual Rates (Millions of US) 2/
.............  .............................................................  ......................................................................... .....
1991                     1992              993      91-93       1991                    1992             1993     91-93
---~~~~. --  ......... .............  ...       ----       .......     ... .... .... ....... _.. ....  ...     .....
Apr-Dec       tO     I1a    ilia   Iva       10       Total     Apr-Dec        10    tI1   I1iq  IVQ        t1       Total
PUBLIC SECTOR                   1150        2725   2975   3550   4000    4600       19000        6.3        16.5  18.4  22.6  25.3       29.1      118.2
==s: ~        a =::    *      :s      =       u==           5==         =   #            ===_
1- General Governoent 3/        1120        2050   2050   2175   2520    2905       12820        6.1       11.2  11.2  11.9  13.8        15.9      70.1
om/ Central Gov.             875         1605   1605   1700   1970    2270       10025        4.8        8.8   8.8   9.3  10.8        12.4      54.9
CSS                      160          290    290    310    360      410       1820        0.9        1.6   1.6   1.7   2.0         2.2      10.0
Consol. Agencies          85          155    155    165    190      225        975        0.4        0.8   0.8   0.9   1.0         1.3       5.2       on
2- Public Enterprises             30         675    925   1375   1480    1695        6180        0.2         5.3   7.2  10.7  11.5       13.2       48.1
1/ The table is based on public wages and salaries, excluding the effect of the thirteenth-month salary.
2/ Savings are calculated at US$455 per month (or USS1365 per quarter or US$5460 per year) per eaployee for general government and at USS650 per month
(or US$195O per quarter or US$7800 per year) per aployee for pubtic enterprises.  it must be recognized that the savings resulting from eaptovment
reductions for any quarter would be realized with a tag of subsequent quarters.
3/ The breakdown of general government employees is calculated as: Centrat Sovermment, 78.22; CSS, 14.22; and Consolidated Agencies,  7.62-- percentages
existing as of 3/31/91.
Source: Bank Staff Estimates.



- 68 -
Attachuent IV
PANAMA: PUBLIC SECTOR VAGE SILL TARGETS: SY CUARtERS, 1991-93
.... ..... .. ..... ...... ........... v............................. . . .
(NiLUion of US)
* ~~1991                  .         1992                      1993
.... ...................                      . ...
1     ItQ   1110    IVQ  Total    Total
.. .... .... ... .... .. . .............. . ...................
PUBLIC SECTOR               820    212    212    202    196.    820            765
3U* nu       m      an  a          xm         am.
1. Genorat Governmnt    599          149    149    144    138    580           556
41w Central Gov.         433     107    107    103        98    415        398
2. Public Enterprises        134     34       34      31      27    126         99
Source: Bank Staff Estimates.



- 69 -
Annex Itt
Attactmnt v
PANAMA: Financial Program for Publie Enterprises, 1990-93 1/
... ....... ........................................
(MiLlionr of USS)
Historical         Program
1990     1991     199      1993
CURRENT REVENUES                   558      597      634      508 2/
CURRUT EXPENDITURES               370      392      376      302 3/
Total Vages & Salaries           135      134       126      99
Vages & Salarfes               134      129       115       90
Sonus                            1        5        11       9
Goods and Services                96      138       148      113
Transfers                         27       29       29        22
Interest                          98       80       68       68
Other                             14       11        5         0
CURRENT SAVINGS                    188      205      258       206
Sam=                  an 3
Met Transfers                       81       -41      -66      *19
CAPITAL REVENUES                     4        0        0         0
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                27       49       119      119
OVERALL BALANCE                     84       115       93       68
son          a,, #
Memorandum Item:
Consolidated Non-Interest
Current Expenditures              272      312      308       234
..................................................................
1/ Includes the following public enterprises and ceapanies:
IRHE. IOAAM, APN, INTEL, Cemento Sayeno, Victoria Sugar Nills,
Zone LIbre, IPAT, and Citricos de Chiriqui.
2/ Excludes Income from Victoria Sugar Mills of US$22.1 million,
USS12.0 million from Cemento Bayano, US$99.8 million from INTEL,
and US$36.6 million from APH, due to their transfer to the
prIvate sector.
3/ Excludes expenditures of Victoria Sugar Mills of US$15.1 million,
US$9.4 mi lton of Cemento Eayano, and USS28 millton of INTEL. due
to their transfer to the private sector.
Source: MIPPE, IMF, tDB, Bank Staff Estimates.



- 70 -
Anngx III
Attachment vi
Page 1 of 6
PRINCIPLES OF PUBLIC UTILITY PRICING
1.    This section describes the understandings reached with the Government on
the principles to be applied in public utility pricing. The studies for public
utility pricing will be financed by IDB. The basic principles of public utility
pricing include allocative efficiency (a countrywide objective) and sound
finances (a utility objective).
2.    The Government of Panama plans to introduce action plans to improve
finances and operating efficiency of public utilities. The Government plans to
rely on sound economic principles to guide the production and consumption of the
services of these utilities.   In particular, increasing use will be made of
marginal cost pricing policies.   Price is the most effective instrument for
demand management, and pricing policy is more effective when coordinated properly
with other demand management tools. Long-run marginal cost (LRMC)-based tariffs
also promote better use of existing facilities and more efficient expansion of
supply.
Tariff Reguirements
3     Tariffs should reflect the actual costs of supply and should encourage
energy saving. Tariffs based on historical accounting costs and financial rate
of return criteria will be replaced by more efficient tariffs that give users the
right signals on supply costs and pass efficiency gains on to users.
4.    The modern approach to pricing public services recognizes the existence of
several objectives or criteria, not all of them mutually consistent. First,
economic resources must be allocated efficiently; prices must signal the actual
costs of supplying services.   second, certain principles of equity must be
satisfied, includings (1) the fair allocation of costs among consumers according
to the burdens they impose on the system; (2) the avoidance of sudden large
fluctuations in price; and (3) the provision of a minimum level of service to
users who may not be able to afford the full cost. Third, prices should raise
enough revenues to meet the utility's financial requirements and attract private
investors. Fourth, the tariff structure must be simple to facilitate metering
and billing, and so it can easily be understood by users.
5.    Since those criteria are often in conflict with one another,  it is
necessary to accept certain trade-off..  The LRMC approach to tariff design has
both the analytical rigor and flexibility needed to provide a tariff structure
responsive to these basic objectives.



- 71
hnnex II
Attachment vi
Page 2 of 6
LRMC-based Tariffs
6.    A tariff schedule based on LRMC is consistent with efficient allocation of
resources.   Investment requirements and operating costs tend to increase as
existing consumers increase their demand and as new consumers are connected to
the system. Therefore, prices should act as a signal to consumers on the cost
of providing services. These costs should reflect the value to the country of
the present and future resources needed to meet the increase in present and
projected demand. The accounting approach that uses historical asset values
implies that future economic resources will be as cheap or as expensive as they
were in the past.   This usually  leads to overinvestment and waste,  or
underinvestment and the additional costs of unnecessary scarcity (rationing and
outage costs).
7.    To promote better utilization of capacity, the LRMC approach permits the
structuring of prices so that they vary according to the marginal costs of
serving demands by: (1) different consumer categories; (2) peak (capacity) or
off-peak demand (energy); (3) different seasons; (4) level of consumption; and
(5) different regions.
8.    The economic resource costs of future consumption are allocated as far as
possible among the customers according to the incremental costs they impose on
the supply system.   In the traditional approach, fairness was often defined
narrowly and led to the arbitrary allocation of accounting costs to various
consumers, thus violating the economic efficiency criteria. Because the LRMC
method deals with future costs over a long period -- usually at least 5 to 10
years -- constant prices based on LRMC tend to be stable over time.   This
smoothing out of costs over a long period is especially important, given the
lumpiness of investments in infrastructure.
9.    Demand-side improvements occur through changes in tariff levels, by sending
consumers the right signals to adjust consumption patterns. The consumer has to
be able to understand tariff structure, and should be given the option of
reducing his consumption. The tariff must inform the user as clearly as possible
that electricity consumed during peak demand on the system is more expensive.
Tariffs should induce conservation and thus contribute to savings on capacity and
production requirements.
10.   The LRMC method uses economic opportunity costs (or shadow prices --
especially for capital, labor, and materials) instead of purely financial costs,
and considers externalities wherever possible, thus further strengthening the
link with efficient resource allocation. Externalities are especially important
for sewerage services.



- 72 -
Annex II I
Attachment vi
Page 3 of 6
Practical Tariff ett&ing
11.   The first stage of the LRMC approach is to calculate pure or strict LRMC
that reflect economic criteria.   If prices were set strictly equal to LRMC,
consumers could indicate their willingness to pay for more consumption, thus
signaling the justification of further investment to expand capacity.
12.   In the second stage of tariff setting, the LRMC estimates are adjusted to
meet other objectives, among which the financial requirement is important. If
prices are set equal to strict marginal costs, the power company is likely to
face increased financial losses and long-term financial surpluses because
marginal costs tend to be higher than average costs when supply costs are
increasing. Thus, the tariff structure is set according to marginal costs and
the tariff rate level according to the utility's projected cash flow.
Performance indicators should be enforced by the regulatory agencies to reduce
inefficiencies in the utilities.
13.   Electricity tariffs should be structured to reflect supply costs by voltage
levels.  Tariffs should give users the chance to structure consumption more
economically and thus pay a lower tariff. Tariffs need to send the right cost
signals to consumers to choose the right type and amount of fuel to consume and
the right time to consume it. They also need to pass on to consumers changes in
the opportunity costs of supply made possible by efficiency gains.
14.   Rate levels should reflect supply- and demand-side improvements undertaken
to make utilities more efficient.    Supply-side measures  should increase
efficiency and reduce costs.  Labor costs and losses should be reduced  by
increasing operation efficiency through better operation and maintenance (O&M)
policies and plant rehabilitation programs.
15.   The tariff level should allow the utility to cover financial costs and
investment requirements, while taking into account the above-noted efficiency
targets. The success of the efficiency measures should be reflected in the
tariff level.
16.   Another reason for deviating from strict LRMC arises because of "second-
best" considerations.   When prices elsewhere in the economy do not reflect
marginal costs, departures from strict marginal cost pricing are justified. The
computation of strict LRMC is based on the utility's least-cost expansion
program, so LRMC may also need to be modified by short-term considerations if
previously unforeseen events make the long-run system plan suboptimal in the
short-run. For example, a sudden reduction in demand growth and an excess in
installed capacity may justify somewhat reduced charges, or a rapid unforeseen
increase in supply costs because of a rise in the international price of
petroleum might warrant a short-term tariff increase.
17.   The LRMC approach permits a high degree of tariff structuring, but data
constraints and the objective of simplifying metering and billing procedures



- 73 -
Annex III
Attachment Vi
Page 4 of 6
usually means that there should be a practical limit to differentiation of
tariffs by:  (1) major customer categories (such as residential, industrial,
commercial, special loads, and rural); (2) consumption levels (bulk and retail);
(3) peak capacity or off-peak demand; (4) time of use (summer, winter, wet or dry
season); and (5) geographic region.



- 74 -
Attachment vi
Page 5 of 6
PETROLEUM PRICING
Bunker Fuels
1.   The volume of fuel oil and diesel sold to ships crossing the Panama Canal
fell from about 30 million barrels in 1970 to about 5.2 million in 1989.
Currently about 15 percent of the vessels crossing the Canal refuel in the area.
2.    The main reason for the  decline is the high final bunker price of fuel.
The purchase price to vessels in the canal area averages about US$2.70 a barrel
higher than in the US West coast or the Gulf of Mexico. High fees and charges
account for part of this large differentials bunkering fees total US$1.77 a
barrel, and pumping fees rose from US$0.35 to US$1.25 a barrel during the last
decade. To promote the growth of the shipping industry in Panama, bunker fuels
should be competitive with those of nearby points of supply in the US West coast,
the Caribbean, and the Gulf of Mexico
Jet Fuel
3.    Jet fuel sales in Panama declined Ly 50 percent in the 19809. Air traffic
also declined because of political problems during 1989-90, reduced tourism
activities, and the high cost of jet fuel in Panama. The delivered price of jet
fuel to airlines in Panama is currently about US$1.25 a gallon; the comparable
price in the United States is only about US$0.85. As a result, airline companies
avoid fueling in Panama.
4.    The Texaco Company has an exclusive license to import jet fuel in Panama.
It imported jet fuel at an average CIF price of US$0.63 a gallon during 1989 and
sold it at the refinery price of US$0.95 per gallon, realizing a profit of
US$0.32 a gallon. The profit margin partially compensates for refinery losses
and subsidizes losses on imports of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).
5.    The decline in airline traffic due to high jet fuel prices caused tourism,
cargo and revenue to drop as well.    Liberalizing imports of jet fuels for
marketing companies would etimulate competition and drive down prices. This
would make the maximum domestic charges (fees, margins, and transport costs) on
jet fuel become competitive with prices in alternative supply locations.
Other Petroleum Products
6.    Domestic prices of diesel and gasoline in Panama are high and above
international prices -- two times more for diesel and three times more for
gasoline. Taxes constitute about 45 percent of the final price of gasoline and
20 percent of diesel.
7.   Four different sales taxes are levied on petroleum products. Two taxes are
included in the ex-refinery tax and collected by REFPAN: a uniform stabilization
tax of US$0.0842 a gallon and an economic reactivation tax (ranging from



- 75 -
Annex TXf
Attachment vi
Page 6 of 6
US$0.0525 on kerosene to USSO.3158 cents a gallon on premium gasoline).  The
other two taxes are collected by the marketing companiess a US$0.10 consumption
tax on gasoline and an import duty equivalent tax, ranging from US$0.02 a gallon
on diesel to US$0.405 on premium gasoline.
8.    Import duties on fuels for the domestic market are set at levels to protect
REPPAN from international competition. The duties range from US$0.4 a gallon on
fuel oil to US$0.7 on premium gasoline. However, little of the revenue from
these duties goes to the Ministry of Finance because REWPAN, the sole importer,
is exempt from paying import duties. REFPAN collects a surcharge on gasoline,
kerosene, and diesel to compensate it for losses incurred in selling LPG and fuel
oLl to IRHE and diesel fuel to the fishing fleet at subsidized prices. The
surcharge is set at a level needed to compensate for the revenue loss.
9.    The Government recognizes that all end-user prices for the same fuel
(diesel for fishermen, fuel oil for power generation, LPG for households, etc.)
need to be equalized. Inefficiency can be reduced by phasing out the subsidies
granted through lower taxes and prices to specific users.   Although not a
condition of tranche release under the proposed ERL, the Bank will review
developments in petroleum pricing during the program period.



- 76 -
p SSIL'
Attzaclut vii
List of companies
A, Complete transactions on the sale or liquidation of at least three
of the following public companies during the program periods
1.  Air Panama.
2.  Citricos do Chiriqui.
3.   Cemento Bayano.
4.  Victoria Sugar Mi11s.
S.  Otherss
ISA.
CODAMA.
COAPA.
(or others for a total of no less than US$10 million annual sales
value).
B. lNTlL
-    Privatize with a controlling ownership by the private
sector.
C. Grant concessions to the private sector.
-    APN.
D.   Privatize future expansion, non-basic services, some activities,
and operation.
1.   I=.
2.  IDAAN.



- 77 -
Anmwx II I
Attectitn vI if
PANAMA: Publ1c Investment Program, 1991-93
. R ~~~~. ... . ..............
SECTORS                 1991  1992 1993    1991  1992 1993
(MHttianrs of USS)    (As X of total)
Agriculture              6.8 14.4 15.7      5.7  6.8  6.8
Comnnrce & Industry      1.2  5.3  0.2      1.0  2.5  0.1
Education                5.8 15.8 20.5      4.8  7.4  8.9
Energy                  18.9 41.5 76.8    15.8  19.5 33.4
Heatth                  10.7 33.9 31.0      8.9  15.9 13.S
Tolecaauunfeattons      19.9 17.3  0.0    16.6  8.1  0.0
Transport               27.9 35.8 39.3    23.3  16.8 17.1
Toursism                 0.2  2.6  0.2      0.2  1.2  0.1
Housing                 5.7 20.2 14.2       4.7  9.5  6.2
others                  22.8 26.2 32.2    19.0 12.3 14.0
TOTAL                  120.0 213.0 230.0   100.0 100.0 100.0
H_n                   w u     u
Percentage of GDP        2.4  4.0  4.0
FINACING (Millions of USS)                 Calposition
(As a X of total)
TOTAL                  120.0 213.0 230.0    100  100  100
Central Goverrmnt       16.0 39.4 57.8       13   19   25
Use of Entity Surpluses  33.5 74.0 82.5      28   35   36
External FinancIng      13.6 54.4 89.7       11   26   39
USAIO Grants            56.8 45.2  0.0       47   21    0



- 78 -                 anE  WI
Attachment ix
Page 1 of 3
AGRICULTURAL TARIFF REDUCTIO  PRO,GRAI
(Percentages)
TARIFF RATES
AGRICULTURAL               Before           Second         Third
Board           Tranche        Tranche
Vegetables                  50                40             30
Sorghum                                       So1l
Beans                                         60             40
Onions                                        45             30
Potatoes                                      80             60
Tomatoes                                                     50
Corn                                          70             50/
Rice                                                         601/
Beef meat                   30                               20
Chicken meat                                  60             50
Pork meat                                     60             50
1/ A system of variable import tariff rates for these products will be agreed as
part of the condition of second tranche release, including the maximum applicable
rate under the system.



- 79 -                AnnexII
Attachment.ix
Page 2 of 3
TRADE REGIME FOR THE MIN AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS
IN PANAE
Price Detemination
A. CROPS       Specific      Ad-Valorem               -----------------------------------
Tariff      Equivalent               Consumer    Wholesale    Producer
Rates       Tariff Rateg   gm                       & Level  .Levl  Lwtel
1. RICE      .3086KS+7.5%       97%          QR       Fixed       Fixed         "Agreed"
2. CORN      .09927KB+7.5%    109%           QR       Free        Free          "Agreed"
3. SORGHUM   .0926KB+7.5%       82%          QR       Free        Free          "Agreed"
4. BEANS     O.lSKB+7.5%        27.5%        QR        Free       Free          Free
or 27.5%,
whichever is
higher
5. POTATOES   .50KR+7.5%       225%          QR       Free        Free          Free
6. ONIONS    0.11KB+7.5%        41%          QR        Fixed      Fixed         Free
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-----------



- 80 -                 Annex III
Mtaghment ix
Page 3 of 3
Price Detemination
B. LIVESTOCK    Specific   Ad-Valorem                  --------------------------
PRODUCTS     Tariff    Equivalent                Consumer  Wholesale Producer
Rates     Tariff Rates 9u            bee L       ol ul    LflMa
1. BEEF MEAT1/ 2. 50KB+2 .5%  N/A       De Facto    Fixed     Fixed      Free
OR 40%,                  quota to
whichever                export and
is higher                a permit
to import
2. PORK MEAT   2.50KB 2.5%    343%      Permit to  Fixed for  Free        "Agreed"
import     popular
cuts
3. CHICKEN    0.50KB+7.5%      50%      Permit to  Fixed          -       Fixed
NEAT                                 import
4. DRIED      1.25KB+7.5%      64%      Quota to    Fixed       Fixed     Fixed
POWDER MILK                          import
26%
S. BUTTER     1.75KB+7.5%      80%      Quota to   Fixed        Free      Fixed
OR 80%,
whichever is
higher
6. CHEESE     0.50KB+3.5%    20%        Quota to   Free         Free      Fixed
OR 50%                   import
-_______-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
fGgur2a  IMA, MIPPE, Bank staff estimates.
I/ Before the introduction of reforms in 1991.



- 81 -                   Annex III
Attacb=_t x
P2ge 1 of 4
KEY ACTIONS PLANNED TO RESTRUCTURE PUBLIC SECTOR BANMS
National Mortgage Bank (BHN)
- Cease further real estate development.
- Improve credit criteria for loans for sales of housing units.
- Transfer assets and liabilities of three failed S&Ls to BHN.
- Sell or transfer viable assets (of failed S&Ls and of BHN),
and some existing debt of BHN, to the Savings Bank (CA) and
to private commercial banks.
- Liquidate real assets (foreclosed real estate) of S&Ls.
- Assess potential to liquidate or privatize real assets of
BHN (low-income housing projects) and develop a strategy to
rehabilitate these assets.
- Establish a process for collecting nonviable financial
assets of S&Ls and BHN (mortgage loans).
- Close BRN.
Agricultural Develotment Bank (BDA'
- sell viable assets and branches to private sector banks or
commercial firms.
- Establish a process for collecting nonviable financial
assets.
- Liquidate repossessed assets.
Savinos Bank (CA)
- Take action to permit competition on an equal footing with
private banks.
- Complete the ,ecapitalization (contribution of land by the
Government) of she Bank.



- 82 -                  annex III
Attachment a
Page 2 of 4
Create Level Plavina Field for Public and Private Banks
- Eliminate direct and indirect subsidies to public banks.
- Permit public and private banks to participate in programs
to support low-income housing or small-scale producers.
- Implement appropriate institutional changes regarding the
composition of the boards of public sector banks and their
relationship to management.
Privatizat_on
- Partially privatize B8N assets.
- Do not Irivatize BDA at this time. Eventually, the
Governmeit could sell its existing shares or new shares to
private firms or individuals.
- Privatize CA after 1992.
Terms of Reference for the Aaricultural
Develooment Bank (BDA)
1.    BDA currently provides financing for small and medium-size agricultural
producers. The Government has used this bank to channel financial (and
technical) support to such producers. The Bank holds a sizeable volume of
unrecoverable loans and has relied historically on central government budget
allocations to remain solvent. Future budget allocations will be severely
limited so the Government must introduce actions to deliver more efficient
support to these producers.
2.    Therefore, the goals of the study regarding BDA are tos
- Develop concrete options for both: (1) the restructuring
and privatization of BDA, and (2) its closure, with the sale
or transfer of its assets and liabilities to other
entities.
- Develop recommendations for future policies on small and
medium-size agricultural producers.



- 83 -                  Annex IxX
Uttchment 
Page 3 of 4
3.    The options and recommendations prepared under the proposed study should
have as their objectivest
- Promoting private sector development, and
- Assuring the continued availability of financial resources to small
and medium- size producers.
4.    The Government's involvement has tended to stifle the development of
efficient private producers and commercial firms in the past. The two
principal forms of government disincentives that have suppressed the private
sector in rural markets are:
- Market-distorting policies and programs.
- The competition in many such markets of up to three public sector
banks (BDA, BNP and CA), each of which operates with several
competitive advantages over private sector banks.
5.    The following assumptions can be made about future policies and
programs:
- The system of price controls, quotas, tariffs, and permits will be
abolished and replaced by import tariffs through the program
supported under the proposed ERL.
- Interest rate controls and subsidy programs will be phased out.
6.    The study will assess how the operation of other public sector banks
affects the private sector's ability to penetrate this market, and should
recommend new policy for those state-owned banks. The study will also
identify and propose methods to rationalize any other policies that affect
this market.
7.    The second objective (assuring the availability of financial resources)
involves basically two issues:
- The level and type of government support needea to ensure that the
legltimate credit neods of viable small and medium-size producers are
met, and
- The means by which this support is to be delivered.
8.    Several private sources of credit exist for small and medium-size
producers, including suppliers of inputs, processors, wholesalers, retailers,
and producer cooperatives. To some extent, private banks provide credit
indirectly to small- and medium-sized producers.



- 84 -                   Annex III
Attachment_x
Page 4 of 4
9.    In evaluating options for restructuring BDA, the proposw. study should:
- Determine the value of BDA assets under alternative strategies for
collecting those assets.
- Assess management, policies, and operations and determine actions to
assure financial solvency of the entity.
- Determine prospects for diversifying the asset base if BDA were to be
privatized.
- Determine changes needed in risk taking and risk pricing to ensure
profitability when government subsidies end.



- 85 -                  Annex II
Attachmentaxl
Page 1 of 3
FINANCIAL SECTOR ISSUES
A. Provoued Study on Prudential Reculations
1.        The existing Banking Law is inadequate and needs to be updated to
take account of developments in banking over the past 20 years. Above all,
prudential regulations should be modified to ensure the solvency of the
financial system in Panama. Bank supervision also needs to be strengthened,
and the authority and resources of the National Banking Commission (CBN) need
to be expanded to deal with bank insolvency. The Government has agreed to
review prudential regulations and design an action plan for their improvement.
2.        This study, financed partly by the ERL --in the amount of US$0.12
million --would contain the following main topics:
(1)  The present fragmentation of regulatory authorities for the
financial sector;
(2)  The degree of autonomy of the National Banking Commission
(CBN);
(3)  The need for strengthening CBN,s enforcement powers;
(4)  Procedures for intervening problem banks;
(5)  Handling ailing banks;
(6)  Establishing adequate liquidity ratios;
(7)  Ensuring adequate capital ratios for financial institutions;
(8)  Loan-loss provisioning and write-offs;
(9)  classification of assets;
(10)  Reducing risk in lending (reducing the amount of concentrated
and connected lending); and
(11)  Improving CBN's relations with internal and external auditors.
3.        Several suggestions about prudential regulations will be thoroughly
analyzed by the proposed study, including the following:
(1)  Revise upward the minimum capital requirement for banks of
US$1 million and the minimum capital-plus-reservesrequirement
of 4 percent of earnings --a very low ratio by international



- 86 -                   Annex IXl
Attachment xl
Page 2 of 3
standards. Consider replacing the simple 4-percent ratio with
a system of ratios relating different risk categories of bank
assets to their equity capital (Art. 30 of the Banking Law,
DL, and Acuerdo 1-83).
(2) Consider introducing a lending limit for each borrower and
group of borrowers, expressed as a percentage (20 to 25
percent) of a bank's equity --in addition to or in place of
the existing lending limit of 5 percent of bank deposits,
capital, and reserves (Art. 53 8L).
(3) Clearly define loans to related parties (Art. 55 BL).
(4) Remove unnecessary or overlapping regulations on bank
reserves.
(5) Increase the penalty for noncompliance with legal reserve
requirements (Art. 40 BL). The minimum liquid-assets
requirement (Art 45 BL), if it remains, should be set at a
level equivalent to a positive real interest rate.
(6) Introduce an automatic penalty for noncompliance with the
minimum capital requirements (Art. 30 BL) in the form of a
100-percent reserve/liquidity requirement on all additional
deposits received after the date of non-compliance.
(7) Consider deleting or replacing the regulations on "contingent
credit" with another instrument (Art. 34-35 BL).
(8) Strengthen BL Art. 65, which is unclear about the banking
supervisor's right to inspect credit files and evaluate asset
quality. Empower CBN to examine the credit files of all banks
and financial intermed'.aries.
(9) Introduce a regulation that defines what ratio of capital
deficiency represents insolvency and allows CBN to intervene
in such cases (Art. 83 BL).
(10) As needed, introduce regulations that allow and promote the
use of new financial instruments, including NOW accounts, cash
management accounts, certificates of deposit, bankers'
acceptances, and private sector bonds.
(11) End the asymmetrical tax treatment of bank deposits, the
income from which is tax exempt, and capital market
instruments (bonds, shares) income from which (interest,
dividends) is subject to a withholding tax of 5 to 10 percent.



- 87 -                  Annex SXX
Att,achment_xi
Page 3 of 3
Because the Government intends to promo,te the development of
capital markets, these instruments should be taxed similarly.
B.  Progosed Technical Assistance to Strenathen BankIng aSuervision
4.        The ERL aims to help the Government of Panama to strengthen the
CBN's supervisory capabilities to ensure financial center's solvency.  The
proposed technical assistance would aim to strengthen bank supervision,
providing training on the following:
(1) On-site examinations.
(2) Of f -site examinations.
(3) Early warning systems.
(4) Information systems.
*(5) The analysis of asset quality, profitability, capital
adequacy, liquidity, and the management of financial
institutions (CAMEL rating system).
Interest Rate Policies
S.        The current interest rate structure also needs to be reviewed.  The
proposed study will cover the following:
(1) Allowing payment of interest on domestic demand deposits (Art.
48 BL).
(2) Permitting BNP to pay a market-determined interest rate on the
financial institutions' reserves held in the form of sight
deposits and treasury bills (Acuerdo No. 3-96 CBN and Art. 37
BL).
(3) Considering the possibility of removing interest rate ceilings
for savings deposits, which discriminate in favor of mortgage
banks (Art. 48 BL).
(4) Phasing out preferential interest rates for credit to
agriculture and housing (Acuerdo 12-84) and any other such
interest rate subsidies.



- 88 -                  Annex III
Attacnent xii
Page 1 of 3
PANAMf
NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Need for a Nutrition Assistance Proaram
1.        Although nutrition has improved in Panama over the last 20 years,
malnutrition is worse than in countries with a smaller GDP per capita. There
are some indications that it may even have worsened in the last several years.
In 1988, half of the households in Panama were below the poverty level (i.e.,
did not have enough income to meet their basic needs). Critical poverty
(income insufficient to buy the basic food basket) affected about one-third of
households. Most poor families experience diet deficiencies both of quantity
and quality, with particular deficits in calories, proteins, vitamin A,
calcium, iron, riboflavin, and folic acid.
2.        Other indications of the severity of malnutrition are Panama's
infant and child mortality rates. The country average was 24.3 deaths per
thousand births in 1987, but several regions (such as Darien, San Blas, and
Rocas del Toro) had levels as high as 40-S0 per thousand. And it appears
there may be a recent trend toward higher infant mortality rates that have not
yet been registered in official statistics. Census figures on height from the
Ministry of Health (MOH) show that in 1988 about one-fifth of school-age
children suffered from moderate malnutrition and 6 percent from severe
malnutrition.
3.        The current nutrition assistance program in Panama have a limited
reach. The MOR has a nutrition assistance program that provides breakfasts or
school lunches to primary school children. The program is well targeted to 10
districts with the highest incidence of malnutrition and there are plans to
expand it to 30 districts. The protein and calories represent about one-sixth
of total requirements for a 7-year old child. In 1990, the KOH had a budget
of US$600,000 which would have allowed its programs to reach only 12,000
children or less than 5 percent of children enrolled in primary schools. In
fact, because of administrative limitations, only US$300,000 was spent. In
addition to the NOR program, the food-for-work program of the World Food
Program has distributed US$5000,000 of food to 2,300 Indian families, less
than 3 percent of the families living in critical poverty.
The Pronosed Nutrition Assistance Program
4.        To address the malnutrition problem, the Government intends to
implement a pilot nutrition assistance program that would give special
protection to mothers and children under 5 who face malnutrition. The program
would operate in the regions with the most malnutrition (such as Bocas del
Toro, Darien, Comarcas de San Blas) and possibly in some areas of Panama City
and Colon. The program would be funded from the Government's budget and from



- 89 -nnex II
Attachment xii
Page 2 of 3
expected donations. It would be implemented through the primary health care
network, would benefit an estimated 6,000 to 10,000 mothers and children in
the pilot phase, and would cost about US$600,000.
5.        Based on experiences in other countries, the Bank recommended to
the Government to use a food coupon system. Under such a system, pregnant and
lactating women who attend health care centers for periodic check-ups, well-
baby checks, growth monitoring, vaccination, and such, would receive food
coupons every month, one for each mother and one for each child. Based on a
food basket recommended to beneficiaries, the coupon would provide a
supplement in calories and proteins to mothers and children participating in
the program. The size of the coupon payments would be based on the results of
an analysis of: (1) the income of targets groups, (2) the share of income
spent on food, (3) the type of severity of malnutrition (to determine that a
coupon of US$x per month should be suffficient to supplement y percent of the
food basket), (4) the minimum transfer needed to have a significant impact on
the family, and (5) the minimum income transfer needed to make a coupon
attractive to beneficiaries, taking into consideration travel costs and
expected waiting time. One of the main objectives of a pilot program would be
to test whether a coupon would be acceptable to beneficiaries and determine
whether any modifications are needed. The coupon would not only transfer
income but would also indirectly improve health and nutrition by increasing
the health-care services mothers and children receive at health-care centers.
The beneficiaries would uee the coupon to buy food at a local store
participating in the program and the local store would redeem the coupon
against cash at a commercial bank, funded by BNP.
6.        The pilot food coupon program would be evaluated after 6 months
before it is expanded to a national level. Depending on the availability of
food and the monthly amount distributed per beneficiary, experience in other
countries suggests that a well-targeted program may reach from about 100,000
to 150,000 beneficiaries and cost from US$5.0 million to 7.5 million a year
plus administrative costs (estimated at about a sixth of the total cost).
7.        Another less desirable yet feasible alternative would be to
distribute food to the beneficiaries. The usual argument in favor of this
mechanism is that it ensures that beneficiaries actually receive food whereas
the coupon could be traded for nonfood products. Food distribution programs
usually have several disadvantages, however, including the following: (1)
beneficiaries are not properly targeted for lack of information; (2) food aid
program are not well-coordinated, partly because different donors have
different motives, so there is usually duplication and waste, (3) most of the
food tends to be distributed to people near ports and the capital, and the
needy people in remote areas do not receive enough food for lack of transport,
warehouse facilities, and personnel because of complicated bureaucratic
procedures; (4) the types of food distributed are not always acceptable to
beneficiaries; and (5) supplies vary depending on the availability of
surpluses (such as skimmed milk from the EEC).



90 -Annex IZ
Attachment xii
page 3 of 3
8.        A food coupon system (a coupon used to buy food in private atores)
is more efficient becauses (1) it Is simpler, (2) it relies on the private
sector for distribution, and (3) it is self-targeting (most high-income women
go to private clinics, not to government health-care centers).
Rationale for the pilot program
9.        A pilot program is considered essential for the success of a
nutrition assistance program because it allows a program to be adopted to a
country's particular conditions. The Bank has had experience with similar
programs in Jamaica and Honduras, for example, but conditions in Panama --
such as coverage of the KOH, the geographic distribution of the population,
and topography -- are different. Because of the small scale of the pilot
program, lessons can be learned quickly, the system can be modified easily and
if errors are made their economic and political cost would be small.



-91  -                                              Afe  III
Attachment xiI
PANAMA: Projected financing Requirements
..........,......... ,I.,,....,,,
(Selected years)
(us$ NiWoiwns)
1992    1 m     1994    1995    1997    1996        1999
,........................ ......... ................ .......................
GR40S FINACING REOUIRENENIS             (1,273)   (770)   (S36)   (574)   (499)   (493)    (504)
Current Account astance                (366)   (390)   (257)   (271)   (232)   (2-v)    (216)
Amortization Paywents  /               (793)   (285)   (210)   (267)   (208)   (174)    (151)
c/v :  1350                      (173)    (48)    (49)    (37)    (33)    (33)        (32)
108                      (177)    (41)    (37)    (37)    (35)    (25)        (20)
IXF purchases            (196)    (10)      (1)    (90)    (25)    (5)        (SO)
Banking syrtem net foreign assets    (113)    (95)    (68)    (36)    (59)    (90)    (138)
SOURCES                                   1,273      770     536      S74     499      493      504
A. Official Grants                      340      110     120      120      80       80       80
B. Net Oirect Foreign Investment         70       80     110      125     180      190      200
C. ULY Gross Disbursements              454     338      306      329     239      223      224
o    ;  IBRD                       90     114       92      90       62      S8        67
log                       120      143     131      152     128      11S      107
IMF repurchases           126       53      50       SO       0        0        0
D. Net other Flows 2/                   409      242       0        0       (0)      0        0
1/ includes rescheduling.
2/ Includes escrow funds, debt service arrears and net short term capital ftlows.
Source: Sank staff estimates.



-92 -                 Anngix III
Attachment x>?
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
A.   Instltutional Assistance to be Financed by the Bank
I.   Technical Unit at MIPPE
a)   Assistance to monitor the implementation
of the Economic Recovery Program and
promote public awareness of the program
b)   Agriculture
c)   Nutrition program
d)   Customs administration assistance
e)   Procurement                            US$ 1,300,000
1I.  Privatization Technical Unit at MIPPE
a)   Legal issues
b)   Financial issues
c)   Regulatory issues                      US$   350,000
II. Financial Sector
a)   Prudential regulations
b)   Banking supervision                    US$   120,000
IV. Social Securitv
a)   Update of financial and actuarial
projections of social security
system                                 USS    30,000
TOTAL             US$ 1,800,000
B.   Institution,al Assistance to be Undertaken by DEV$EC
(a private consultina company, financed by USAIDl
a)   Public sector banks (0HN, BDA)
b)   Health-care cost reduction program for CSS
c)   Government Complementary Pension Scheme action plan
d)   Management of external debt



- 93 -                 AnneU III
Attachment Xv
Page 1 of 5
ThCRNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR REGULATION OF THE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
1.        The Government of Panama has adopted a new telecommunications
reform strategy sbat centers on privatizing INTEL through international
competitive bidding and reorganization of the sector. The objectives of
reform are to increase competition in the telecommunications sector, to create
a regulatory entity (RE) for the telecommunications sector, and to transform
INTEL into an operating company of mixed ownership. The Government will sell
55 percent of the shares to a private operator and will introduce competition
as appropriate.
2.        The Government has proposed creating a new, independent regulatory
entity for telecommunications because it believes that a suitable regulatory
regime is needed to support reform of the telecommunications sector. A new
and greatly improved government regulatory capability will be needed
especially to enforce provisions of the INTEL sale concerning tariffs,
services, and competition in the sector.
Four Parallel Consultancies
3.        Four separate consultancies (each with its own contract) will
*cooperate closely in preparing a sector plan for and implementing the reform
and restructuring telecommunications in Panama. The first consultancy will
advise the Panamanian Government on restructuring the sector. The second will
provide legal advisory services as the sector plan is created and implemented
and during preparation and the sale of INTEL. The third will provide
investment advisory services to assist in the marketing and sale of INTEL.
The fourth will provide technical assistance to the Government of Panama to
help establish, train, and operate the regulatory entity for the
telecommunications sector.
Consultancv to Help Restructure the Telecommunications Sector
4.        This consultancy will advise the Panamanian authorities on
preparation of the telecommunications sector restructuring plan, on the
sector's best structure, on specific proposed government actions, and on
appropriate terms for the sale of INTEL. It will recommend policy and
organizational principles needed to establish a new telecommunications RE
within the Panamanian Government. It will also prepare the work plan to train
personnel for and to implement the RE.



- 94 -
Attachment xv
Page 2 of 5
Local Advisor Sgerices
S.        This consultancy will provide legal and policy advice to MIPPE and
other relevant Government authorities during development of the
telecommunications sector reform plan, in the drafting of the national
telecommunications law, and preparation of the terms for selling INTEL.
6.        The legal advisory services will provide legal and policy advice as
well as other professional services to HIPPE in support of creating and
presenting the telecommunications sector reform plan; in surveying relevant
Panamanian law affected by telecomunications sector reform; in drafting
proposed changes to Panamanian law; and in recommending procedures to use in
implementing the sector plan and selling INTEL. The firm will also serve
MIPPE as an outside general counsel for telecommunications reform and the sale
of INTEL.
7.        Legal services related to the sale of INTEL will includes
1)   advising on the required legal framework for the transact,'on
and drafting of all documents required for the sale;
2)   providing legal advice on all areas of Panamanian and
international law that could affect INTEL's sale;
3)   assessing the legal implications of the sale;
4)   advising on and implementing changes in INTEL's capital
structure and articles of incorporation;
5)   reviewing and revising the documents that are made available
to potential purchasers;
6)   negotiating legal documents and regulations with potential
purchasers;
7)   as,sssing the antitrust implications of the sale;
8)   coordinating efforts with lawyers responsible for the legal
work on labor and pension aspects of the transactionJ and
9)   advising on the tax and legal aspects of proposed
participation by INTEL's employees.



- 95 -                 Annex SIS
Attacbment xv
Page 3 of S
investment Advisory ServLeg
8.        An international investment advisory company, to be selected, will
help present INTEL to qualified buyers and place stock offerings as much as
necessary. The IDS will fund and the UNDP will administer the operating
expenses of the investment advisor. The investment advisory group will
probably also receive a "success fee" from the Government when the sale
closes. This fee will probably be a percentage of the final sales price
negotiated thtc-,h competitive bidding.
9.        The services of the investment banker will include the followings
1)   providing independent advice to the Government on the terms
and conditions of sale proposed by the Government;
2)   preparing the sales memorandum for presentation to potential
bidders;
3)   preparing and assisting potential buyers through the "due
diligence" procesos
4)   organising, as much as necessary, an Inventory of the firm's
assets and liabilities;
5)   marketing the company to prospective buyers;
6)   preparing presentations on the sale process and status and on
the advantages of the proposed sale of INTEL and making these
presentations to the Congress, political parties, Government
staff, and the general public;
7)   prequalifying the offerers;
8)   coordinating and managing the International competitive
bidding;
9)   evaluating offers from bidders and helping the Government
negotiate the contract of sale with the successful bidder; and
10)    assisting in the closing of the transaction.
IMPLEMENTING THE REGULATORY ENTITY
10.       Technical assistance will help the RE undertake regulatory
activities by providing experts and consultants, assistance for experienced
personnel, on-the-job and off-site training, and computers  The institutional



96 - 
Attachment x
Page 4 of 5
assistance will focus on building up expertise in (1) regulatory policy, (2)
pricing, cost, and financial analysis, (3) monitoring the quality of service,
the investment program, and technical standards, and (4) administrative, legal
and information systems. Tentative estimates of the minimum requirements of
RE professional staff, and of the requirements and costs of experts and
training for the initial 3 years of development of these areas, are summarized
below.
Reaulatorv Policy
11.       RE must build a capability to develop and implement regulatory
policies with respect to:
1)   the licensing of telecommunications networks facilities;
2)   the licensing of resellers and other competitive service
providers;
3)   the provision of leased lines;
4)   anticompetitive or unduly discriminatory behavior by
faci!ities-based service providers;
5)   network interconnection and revenue settlement arrangements;
and
6)   other regulatory issues.
Pricing, Cost, and Financial Analysis
12.       RE must build up a capability tot
1)   monitor, analyze, and approve or reject tariff proposals;
2)   review financial projections of service providers and develop
an RE financial model of the operating company to forecast
rates of return and other financial indicators; and
3)   review methodclogies and estimate costs of providing
telecommunications services.



- 97 -                 annex III
Page S of 5
MoaitorinC OUalitv of Service, thq InYvetmnt Program. and Technical Standarda
13.       RE must develop a capability for:
1)   establishing performance indicators and systems to monitor
results;
2)   assessing the operating company investment program,
depreciation, and procurement policies; and
3)   establishing, monitoring, and enforcing technical standards
for networks (including national fundamental technical plane)
and terminal equipment.
Administrative. Lecal and Ingormation Svstems
14.       The RE must develop a capability to:
1)  operate modern administrative systems for externally-oriented
needs (such as the processing of license applications and the
management of regulatory proceedings) and internal
requirements (such as managing personnel, finances, and
supplies) 
2)   provide in-house legal advice and undertake legal actions in
support of its operations; and
3)   establish and maintain information systems to support the RR's
operations.



- 98 -                 Ann" III
Attachment xyi
TY  OPTINS TO REDUCE HEHTH-C                 OSS. OF CS
1.        The health-care branch of the social security system in Panama has
produced operational deficitu in the past. These deficits resulted from the
operation of the integrated health-care program. Further, the medical care
branch of the CSS confronts high actuarial costs caused by hlgh overhead costs
due to an excessive number of doctors, yielding a low ratio of services per
medical hour, excessive costs of drugs and other medical components, and the
practice of entering into service agreements with private medical entities
without a proper cost control and evaluation of the cost and quality of
services performed.
2.        Furthermore, the enactment of the legal amendments to the social
security scheme would cost the medical branch about US$10 million annually,
due to the reduction of its share of contribution from 9 percent to 8.5
percent of salaries under the recently approved law.
3.        The actuarial analysis will alm to:
(i) quantify future costs and, hence, project the actuarial and
operational deflcit of the scheme;
(ii) determine :he unit cost of the scheme and its servlce
components, such as hospitalization, drugs, ambulatory care,
surgery and auxiliary services jf diagnostic treatment; and
(lii) develop an action plan to ensure the financial solvency of the
scheme, includLng cost-containment measures and budget limits
for each medical component. Specifically, the medical cost of
the CSS should not exceed its proposed statutory allocation of
8.5 percent of salaries, so as to avoid transfer of funds from
the pension reserves to cover any deficits of the medical
component.



- 99 -                 Annex  'IX
Attachment xviL
STUDY Or zHE gOVERNMENT COMPLEMENTARY PENSION SCHEME
Coverage and Leaal Provisiona
1.        The complementary and special pension schemes for public employees
and decentralized agencies cover about 130,000 persons, 42 percent of the
total insured populatlon of the social security system.
2.        The "Special Schemes" allow for a generous retirement pension after
20 to 30 years of service, and provide coverage to about two-fifths of the
total employees in the public sector. These schemes cover teachers, the
police and armed forces, nurses, and employees in the following areaso mail
and telecommunications, the judiciary, the University of Panama, and the
National Bank of Panama.
Funina Basis
3.        The government complementary pension scheme started operations
without a proper actuarial analysis to ensure its financial solvency.
Further, the legal provision requiring the payment of an initial "capital" to
cover past service liabilities was never implemented by the participating
institution or required by the CSS. Rather, a 2-percent contribution rate by
employees and 0.3 percent by the employer was arbitrarily set in 1975. By
1991, the expenditures of the government complementary pension scheme exceeded
the contributions and have continued to increase since then.
ObiectiveA of the Actuarial Valuation
4.        The objective of the actuarial analysis of the government
complementary pension scheme is to develop options to eliminate the cash
deficit in 1993 and avoid the emergence of operational cash deficits in the
next 10 years. Specifically the study will aim to:
(1) collect and analyze data to carry out the actuarial review;
(2) prepare actuarial projectionsa and
(3) determine options to permanently eliminate the operational
cash deficit by reducing expenditures, increasing revenues, or
both.



- 100 -
Annex II I
Attadent xvi If
PANaA - Statemnt of I     Loans
,,. .. .....................  ............. .
(In US0 tilorns)
Awprovl
N&mbr   Loan                                   Appoved   Cancelled        Year
NuDber~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .......... .......... .................
0086-0  Agricultural Machirnery                    1.20       0.54     1ff3
0087-0  Grain Storage                              0.29                1953
0123-0   oighway Rehabilitation                    S."                 195
0264-0  Second Road                                7.20                1956
0322-0  Central Provinces Eectriffc.               4.00                19S2
0661-0  S.cord Power                              42.00                1970
0783-0  Tocumen Internationma Airport             20.00                1971
0784-0  FisherIes                                  3.40       0.03    1971
0901-0  Livestock Development                     4.70                 1973
09U-0  Third Power                                30.00                1973
1114-0  FIshing Port                              24.00                1975
1280-0  Water Supply & Sewerage                   12.00                1976
1397-0  Second Livestock                          8.00        0.49     1977
1398-0  Second Fisheries                          7.50        2.63    1977
1470-0  Fourth Power                             42.00                 19
1470-1  Fourth Power 1                           31.30        0.34     1983
1565-0   Highway Maintenae                        12.00                1978
1641-0  oevelopnent Banking                       15.00       0.83     1978
1672-0  Tropical Tree Crop Development            19.00       8.09     1979
1778-0  Fifth Power                               23.00                1979
1878-0  Colon Urban Development                  35.00        7.98     1980
1954-0  Energy Plannifg and Petroleun             6.50        5.91     1981
1955-0  Second Development Banking                20.00      13.15     1981
2020-0  Road Rehabilitation                       19.00       4.29    1981
2182-0  Second Port                               24.40      10.43    1982
2222-0  2nd Water Supply & Sewerage               21.60      10.57    1982
2313-0  Sixth Power                               32.10      18.75     1983
2356-0  Third Livestock                            9.00       6.23    1983
2357-0  Structural Adjustment Loan                60.20                1983
2358-0  Technical AssistanCe                      5.00        0.50    1983
2506-0  Seventh Power                             51.00      49.       IM
2768-0  2nd Structural AdJustment Loan           100.00      50.17    1986
.......    ............ .. .
TOTAL COUNTRY                           696.29      190.65
uasma      Wn,==uS



-101 -                    An.Xtt
Attachment ii
MTA3NT OF !FC X STMBS
October 30, 1931
(Millions Us$)
Fiscal                                                                            Hold
Year                                                      ----- IPC GROSS----    by
APro-vd    aObliaor                    Tve of Buiness   kmAN    QOITY TOTA    IFC
1971        Corp. de Hotelero          Tourism             1.17   0.30   1.47    7.50
1978        Vidrios Panamenosit        Glass Factory      2.40   1.40   3.80
1979/85,    Bco. Latino Americano      Money & Capital
1986/88      de Exportaciones, S.A     Markets           47.33   2.50  49.83 jQ
Total Commitments                            50.90  4.20  55.10
Loes Cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and sales                        4S.90    I    47.J6
Total Commitments
presently held                               5.00   25      7.5     7t50
----------------------   -        ---------------             -e--------------------------
1/ sold in July 1991.



'11111
Rep4bfica de Pamxi              - 102
t_ ^ . , : . ~~~~~~~Annex-IV
Mlinisterio de Planificacion y Politica Econ6mica            Page 1 of 3
1f                                         S.pt.mbe  20, 1991
Mr. Lewis Preston
Presidenlt
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.  20433
Dear Mr:. Preston:
..        when the democratically elected Govern-eut of Panaa assumed
power iA December 1989, it faced the enormous task of siultaneously
reestablishing democratic institutions and respect for the rule of law,
resuscitatiAg au economy which had suffered a 20 perceat drop in
production over two years, and restructuring the economy to correct
extreme distortions L*Livited from te- past. We have achi.eved
eonusiderable progress in all three interrelated areas. NQw Panaa is a
well-functioning democracy. Growth has resumed and domestic and foreign
busies: confidence is growing. These positive developments have restored
Panama's positiocn witht. the international community. We have complied
with the 2und-Monitored Program since September 1990. The public sector
deficit was reduced from 11.5 percent of the GDP in 1989 to 2.9 percent in
1990. We have initiated the implementation of' a sound public investmeAt
program addressiAg critical infrastructure needs. We lifted, the deposit
restrictions which had been introduced to avoid deposit withdrawals
following the closure of ban-s in 1988. Deposits in the ba2icUig system.
have ls besased bt USS3.3 billion U 1990. Strengthened public coride
coatributed to real GDP growth of 3.4 percent in 1990. The GDP is
estImated to increase by 4.5 perceAt in 1991.
2 *       The Govern-ent recogSizes, however, that Ln addition to
stabilizing our economy, fundametal reforms are retqired to promote
efficiaecy and international competitiveness. Thus, our Government
iatends to pursue policies of economic liberalization. This processiwill
be neither fast nor easy. Bowover, to establish the basis for long-tern
s;&stainable growth, empl'oyment creation and social progress, we aust
pursue comprehensive policies to increase prouctivity in the private
sector, reduce costs, limit state control, strengthen public finaces, and
increase incentives to work, save, and invest.
3.        We started restoring Panama's relations witL the international
financial community.  Since April 1990, we have mado  all  .ayMents-on
maturing debts owed to the XFzs and have made preliminary contacts with
the money center commorcial banks and bilateral creditors oa the^
rescheduling of debt obligations. in November 1990, an agreement was
reached with the Paris Club for the rescheduling of official debt service
payments in arrears, including those falling due through March 1992, and
we have proceeded to reach agreement with bilateral creditors on the
rescheduling of debt obligations.



-103-                      Annex IV
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 103    t--T- f    R
4.       1The actions taXea to stabiliz the economy after a period of
extrome economic and social turmoil need to be stregtheaed by a acre
compreohenive restructuring of the economy. In Septemb.r 1990, we made
public a&a economic strategy paper in order to StLaulate national debate.
nCa early May 1991, the Cabinet unanImously approved a compreheLsive
economic recovery program, which Includes: trade reform, reduction L.i the
size of the state through prlvatixatLon, decresse in public current
outlays, improved public sector efficiency, tax reform, social security
reform, and the preparation and implementation of a sound public
investment program.
S.        The implementation of the economic reform program is expected to
create sigLificant changes La the structure of the Panwaaian economy iz
the 1990,. Trade liberalisation and inereaseC domestic productivity would
enhance International competitiveness. These changes would also shift the
balance of incentives in favor of exportables, encouraging private sector
Specialization in line with Panaa sI comparativo advantages. Tb.       *
elimin"tion of incentives to capital-iAtensive productive processes, which
have resulted from decades of import-substitution strategies, will become
part of our economic transformation. We expect that exports of goods and
services will grow from 39.7 percent of the projected GDP in 1992 to
around 44 percent by 1999 in response to implementation of our reform
program.
S*        With the planned reforms, the country's GDP is expected to grow
at an average rate of 5.4 percent a year between 1992 and 1995, and at
about 6.8 percent iz vhe latter part of tte decade. *Given that our
domestic ecoomy Li  service-oriented, and investment reguiremants for
expansion are relatively modest, the projected growth rates aza *  -
attain.bl1.   he maist sources of growth would be in those sectors oriented
toward external trade, Including banaas, shrimp, and non-traditional
products In manufacturing, especially maqulla actlvities.  The Colon Pree
Trade Sane has already registered significant growth receutly, -and the
activities of financial services, insurance, tourism, and transportation
should become dynamic sectors.
7.       ' The principal componeut.s of our economic recovery program aAd
the steps for its execution are sumarized below.
Z.  Pulic Sector Reforms
8 *       our Government is determined to further reduce the publ'ic sector
deficit. Since user charges and taxes are relatively high, and given that
there is an uxgent need to increase public investment, our refo=m program
wiIl reduce significantly public curreat outlays. We believe that the
establishment of a sound macro/fiscal position is a prerequIsite for the
iatroduction of structural adjustAont measures to regain sustained growth.



Annex IV
Pate 3 of 8
-104 -
9.        PMlic  BlgMsMt nd Pmbli Sectosr inances.  The Government
intends to shift the emphasis fIoo currOut to investment expeditures.
Current expenditures of the General Government is projected to decline
from 31.9 percent of GDP in 1991 to 30 perceat in 1992. To achieve this
goal, the public sector wage bill will decline La 1992 br aboat 3 percent
in nominal terms and by a further 6 percoen in 1993. A public employment
reduction program will be implemented. This program is based on the
implemeatation of the following mechanisms: offers of voluntary separation
packages, which are ia part to be finAnced externally by bilateral donors
and multilateral institutions, the non-replacement of a large share of
retiring employees, normal retirement as well as privatization. We
estimate that the implementation of the above-meationed mechanLism will
result in a net public employment reduction of about 19,000 positions
during the program period, of which the implementation of tbe voluntary
separation program is expected to account for a reduction of approximately
11,000 positions. A new Personnel Office will be created shortly to review
all appLications from ministries and public institutions and make
recommendations on whether to fill vacancies created by resignatious or
retirements; in case of new hirings, the salaries normally would be 10
percent below those of previously employed personnel. As a result, General
Covarnment savings will shift form a negative 3.1 percent of the GDP in
1991 to a negative 1.9 percent in 1992 and to 0.4 percent in 1993.
10.       Publc Sector Uuaterorises.  Our Government will implement a
program to reform public oeterprises, especially in the pow.r, water, and
port services. Lhe reforms will support efforts to reduce costs, improve
quality, and iacrease the coverage and reliability of public services.
The reform program will promote private sector participation, improve
operating and administrative efficiency, reduce non-technical losses, and,
hence, strengthen the financial position of these enterprises. Cost
cutting and enhanced collection will enable public enterprises to catch up
with delayed investments and to coatinue transferring financial resources
to the Central Government as a return oan eqity.   As a result of the
expected streangthe"nng in finances of these enterprises, price reductions
to consumers should be possible over time. We also plan to reform the
procurement and budgetary practices for the public enterprises.  A draft
enabling law will be sent to Congress shortly.
11.         R= and IDmi.    n order to make RRE and SDMN more
efficient1 we will introduce the following measures:
-    implement programs to improve labor productivity and to reduce
costs. 
-    introduce steps to recover and strengthen the financial
situation of enterprises including reducing current outlays,
enhacing reveaue collectior aad improving metering, billing
and. collection.



Annex IV
Paura E of 8
- 105 -
-    establish a regulatory framework for the electric sector,
enabling the privatization of future investments.
-    introduce managerial improvements to achieve adainistaative and
finaucial autonomy.
SI.  Privatisation  rexra
12.       Our Government has prepared a privatizatiou program to increase
the efficiency of the oconomy and reduce the size of the public sector.
Xn addition, the program aims to transfer some non-basic services and
future expansion programs of ZRaE and ZDAAN to the private sector.  We
will submit to Congress draft legislation on a regulatory framework for
privatization. We have also established a Privatization Committee at
NIPPE to facilitate the privatization program. Presently, we are making
offorts to privatize Air Panama and Citricos de Chiriqul. we also plan to
sell Cemento Bayano, COBANR, ISA, and Victoria Sugar Kills. By the end of
the reform program, we hope to have either sold to the private sector or
liquidated at least three public companies.
13      .         The Gvovernment will implemenlt an action plan to
restructure the telecomunicatLons sector, introduce competition, and
privatize ZITL. A regulatory commission will be created to foster
competition ia the telecommunications sector, grant licenses for the
operation of services, regulate tariffs, attend to public complaints, and
regulate operations. Congressional approval will be sought for a naw law
that will restructure the telecommunications sector and enable  WXL8's
privatization.
14.       3J.  To promote trade and create employment opportunities, we
have prepared a program to restructure our sain ports. We are taking
steps to improve efficilncy la Cristobal and Balboa. To this end, we have
already started implementing a program to transfer port operations,
equipment, and services to the private sector by means of concessions and
leases which are awarded through a transparent and competitive process.
eafer. the end of June 1992, the bidding for concessidos and licenses is
expected to be underway. We will have also selected a promoter/developer
for our new port in Telfers island. We expect the first concession for a
water front site by early 1993. Similarly, we have prepared plans for
attracting private investment to other Central Corridor ports, such as in
Bab-a Las Minas and Coco Solo.                                     _      
XII * Pblic Investment
15        The planned public lnvestment program contemplates that public
investment will rise from about 1.3 percent of GDP in 1990 to an estimated
2.7 percent In 1991, 4 percent in 1992 and in 1993. The program features



Annex IV
Page 5 of 8
- 106 -
power and transport investments and includes well-designe4, high priority
projects.  Zn 1991, two-fifthbs of the program will be funded by VSD
grants.  During 1992-93, however, funding for the program will cone from
increased public savigxs and the expected high level of disbursements from
Ute Lternational financial institutions (IFis).
?7.       MM gIfom
is.       We have submitted a draft law to COngreSs to rationalize and
simplify our tax system in order to prowoto efficiency and equit aad to
reduce disinentives to working, Lnvesting, and saving. We aiL  at
reducing thLe Corporate incoe tax rate to a unified 30 perenDt br the end
of 1994. We will reduce the marginal personal iAcone tax rate to 30
percent by the end of 1992. In addLtLon, the number of personal iiicome
tax brackets will be cut from 20 to at most 11. To provide eqd+.y, the
draft law proposes to increase the level of income which will bee-xempted
from taxation. To ensure the revenue-neutrality of the tax reform, the
draft law contaLis a new tax oan luxury services at 10 percent, and an
increase i. the miniaum imp-ort tariff to 5 percent for tourist goods
(Contro de Compras), maintain the existing 3 percest for industrial inputs
under Law 3, and a reduction in exemptions on iports.
V.  Made aMd enestic Derelat
17. *.  We will reduce protection to import-substitution
activities. This change should encourage export-orionted growth br
exploiting our comparative advantages. The trade rteroL proSram aims at
reducing the level and dispersion in effective and nominal protection, and
includes 
-    reducing the import t.ariff rate coiling to 40 percent for  *
industry and to 50 preent for agro-induasty on January 1993.
-    elimating all specific imort tariff rates.
-    phasing out price controls and quantitative import restrictions
for agricultural products and replacing them with tariff
protection; said tariff rates wiUl be reduced subseg%eut4y in
line with our trade liberalization program.
-    eliminating all export restrictions.
18.       In supp-ort of our trade liberalization program, we bavC already
tLken the first steps by reducing import tariff rate ceilings to 40
percent for industry and to 90 percent for agro-industry o  Aaugst 1,
1991. We also plaz to eliminate all specific import tariff rates. tWe iL4
start the eliminatioa of specific import tariff rates before June 1992,
with 261 products, which represent about 90 percent of domestic inustrial



Annex IV
Pate 6 of 8
- 107-
production. Before March of 1993, we will hAve elimiz&ted all specific
import tariff rates.  la addition, the agricultural imports, regardless of
their use as either inputs or final products, will be taxed at the same
tariff rate.
19.        ICE Deealation.  According to the agricultural trade
liberalization program which aims at oncouragizg domestic deregulation,
price controls ou industrial products and protected agricultural products
will be phased out during the program period. Since December 1990, our
Government has el-imnated price controls on a number of products,
including vegetables, other food products, and various household goods.
We intend to eliminate all remainig price controls by January 1993.
Also, the Oficiza de Regulaci6n de Precios, which sets prices, will be
converted iLto the Oficina de Protecc.n al Consumidor to address consumer
complaints and disseminate information about prices and prroduct quality.
20.        komestic Deregulato. To increase the effectiveness 6f our
planned trade policy reforam, complementary domestic deregulation will be
introduced to e4eourage labor mobility and flexibility, free controlled
domestic prices, improve the efficiency of public services, and move
toward efficiency pricing for public services.
21.       Labor NarketIl.  Xn line with constitutional and legal
requirements, m4.iaum wages are reviewed every two years. Adjustment to
the miaimum wages duriag the program period will be consistent with the
need to encourage employment growth and with the spirit of the Economic
Rscovezr Program. We will also introduce a program to make labor markets
more flexible and reduce non-wage labor cost for the szubsquent phase of
our reform prograa along the lines of the Governmeut's Directrices.
VI. Social Secnurity Preoznr
VX.  ,W5  2931-
22.       We have prepared draft legislation to refor= the Social Security
System. Social security taxes in Panama, with a compulsory contribution
of 18 percent of wages, play a key role in driviag up the labor cots and
reducinLg'the international competitiveness of our economy Zna addition,
employers must pay an average of 2.7 percent ef the wage blll for workers'
compensation, plus the costs of employment injuries. Despite high
contribution rates, however, the system faces major financial
difficultels. During the last three years, revenue declined whle
ependiture rose.  Presently, the system has been incurring large
actuarial and operational losses, with an operating deficit of USimOE
million in 1990.
23.       Thus, social security reform is vital and urgent.  We aim to
ensure fiuancial solvency of the systesm. Our Government will take
measures to eliminate the cash deficit of the social security sYstom
within 10 years without increasing the already high social security tax



Annex IV
Pase 7 of 8
- 108 -
rate. We will also prepare a refom program to eli4-tito the cu       t cs.
deficit of tbe Govermaet Complementary Scheme by  id-1992 an  staxt
implementation before eand 1992. our overnoet will also grant
afti-Astrative autonomy to CSS. Legal changes will help to achieve these
objectives. The changes would include the following: phasing out the
prosent practice of early retiresmet, modifying the beonfit formula,
introducing a program to reduce CSS's operational expenditures, shifting
0.5 percent of contribution frox the medcal scheme to the pension schemo,
rationalixzng the itegration of health-care services to enure that both
CSS and tho Ministry of Health pay respective costs tho"ugh a well-defl=e
cost allocation system, smaging the investment reserves profitably
through investing reserves La high grade securities to increase yield on
ivesntmet reserves conslstent with prudent levels of risk.
TVX. Finanial  Stor Reform
24.       Our  overzment iAtends to rationalize the operation of public
banks. 5Te Saac Kipotecario Wacional (BUM) will stop lending, while it
transfers assets to the Caja de Ahorros (CA), except for lending of funds
trnasfervad from the Ministry of Housing (MZVI). We also plan to
ratLon,lise agricultural sector lending, to avoid duplications, and to
restructure 8DA. We will also seek to capitalize the Ca.
.25 .      To promote the healthy growth of the banking system, our
Goverzment will enhance the capabilities of Comisift acearia Wacional
(CMN) within the existing legal framework . Our Government aims at
enabling CBS to improve supervision of the banking system based.on
Increased financial and humau resources.
VI! *oety aleviation
26.       Our Goveromt hAs started to improve the social Indicators that
worsened duriag the 1987-89 economic crisis. As part of our progrzm, we
intend to maintain the share of expenditure on bealth and educatio& in the
1991-92 budgets at the 1990 level. Tis will ensure that the delivery of
social services wilL be maintained during the program period. Also, we
plan to reallocate more resouces toward primary health and education.
With WDP assistance, we plan to iaplement a autrition program that wll
Incorporate food delivery for lactating mothers    ayg ebildrm in the
poorest areas of our country.
rm*  _x=Galno
second Vice-President                 ostor of
of the Republic and Minister       Finance an TreasurT
of Planning



Annex IV
109  aPage 8 of 8
.~4 ~     -                       --'109 -,
w~~~t ,  < 1oa 9   y ^  &ama
November  8. 1991
)r. Lewis Preston
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Preston:
This is ln connection with our Letter of Development Policy dated
September 20, 1991 where we sumarizsed Panama's Economic Recovery Program and
the steps we plan to introduce for its successful implementation. As you may
know, there has been a recent decision of Panama's Supreme Court that has the
effect of reinstating the thirteenth month salary for *al public sector
employees. This will have an impact on public sector finances, and
particularly the public sector wage bill.
Consequently, after discussions with your staff, we have jointly
determined that the references in paragraph 9 of the aforesaid letter to
declines in levels of the aforesaid public wage bill for yoars 1992 and 1993
should be modified. An a result, third sentence of paragraph 9 of the
aforesaid Letter should be changed as follows:  .. The public sector wage
bill will not exceed in 1992 in nominal terms the estimated level for 1991,
i.e., US5$820 million (all wage bill targets include the thirteenth month
salary and automatic wage increases), and it will decline in 1993 to
VS$765 million.*
in view of the changes in the public wage bill target, second
sentence of paragraph 9 of the said Letter should be changed as follows:
*Current expenditures of the General Government are projected to decline from
32 percont of GDP in 1991 to 30.7 percent ln 1992 and to 29 percent in 1993.'
Furthertore, it was also agreed that the percentage rate of aeqpral
Covernm6nt savings in the last sentence of said paragraph 9 should be changed
to -3.2, -1.6 and +0.5 for 1991, 1992 and 1993, respectively, and that the
percentage rate set forth for public sector investment in the third line of
paragraph 15 of the said letter for 1991 should be changed to 2.4.
Sincerely yours,
Calindo
ice-President of the Republic      Minister of the Treasury
and Minister of Planning                 and Finance



Page I of 11
PAANA'S ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAU
POLtCY MATRIX
A. PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES
POLICY OBJECTIVES                     BEFORE 90.AD                                  SECOND TRANCHE                                 THIRD TRANCHE
1. Reduce imbelances in public
sector finances and ensure
stable macroetonomic balances.
a.  Increase general goverreent    -The Cabinet prepared and annomunced        -Continue to impiement the agreed-             -Complete the implementation of the
savings (see Amex Ilt,             a satisfactory program to increase          upon program.                                  agreed-upon program.
Attachment ii).                    generat government savings, and
announced the savings targets.
b.  Introduce a program to         -The Cabinet approved and announced         -Continue to inpleent the agreed-              -Complete the imptementation of the
decrease general government        a satisfactory program to decrease          upon program.                                  agreed-upon program.
non-interest current outlays.      noninterest current outlays for the
general government and improve
operational productivity, and
agreed on the targets.
b.1  Reduce public vage bill       -The Cabinet approved and announced          -Continue to implement the agreed-            -Complete the implementation of the
(see Amex 111, Attachments iii    a satisfactory program to reduce             upon program.                                  agreed-upon program.
and iv).                           public wage bill through the
implementation of various
mechanisms mentioned in the Letter
of Development Policy, and started
implementation of the program.
2. Incresse public investment
to adequate levels.
a.  Prepare and implement a        -The Cabinet approved and announced         -Continue to implement the agreed              -Complete the implementation of the
Public Investment Program for      a 3 year pubtic irvestment program,         upon program.                                  agreed-upon program.
1991-93 (see Arrex III,            satisfactory in size and camposi-
Attachment viii).                  tion, and started implementation of
the program.



exnex
Page 2 of 11
PANWAMS ECOpM IC tECOVERY LOAN
POLIC? MATRIX
B. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORMS
POLICY OCJECTIVES                                 BEFORE sO"                              $ECO   TACNE                            TNIRD TRAC
1.   Improve procurenent procedures for           -The Cabinet agreed to present draft   -Congressional approvat of                 -Ensure iwple mentation.
pubtic sector enterprises (PSEs).                 enabting tegislation, satisfactory       enabling legislation,
to the Bank, to Congress during          satisfactory to both the Bank
March 1992.                              and the Executive Branch in
Pamna.
2. Reduce costs and increase efficfency.
Introduce a program to improve finances           -The Cabinet announced targets for       -Not exceed the :lrgets.                 -Not exceed the targets.
of public enterprises by reducing the             the consolidated non-interest
wage bill, iMproving the coltection of            current outlays for the 9 pubtic
accounts receivable, and decreasing               enterprises.-
nontechnical losses, and increase
operational productivity (See Annex III.          -The Cabinet announced action plans    -Comply with the financiat and             -tCmply with the financial and
Attachment v).                                    for IRHE and IDAAM.                      operational efficiency targets          operational efficiency targets of
of the asreed-upon actimn plans.        the agreed-upon action plans.
3.  Privatization
a. Privatize maintenance and security             -The Cabinet approved and announced    - tmplement the plans.                     -Complete the implementation of the
services for IRNE. and meter reading and          privatization plans for IRNlE and                                                p(ans.
billing services for IRNE and IDAAM.              IDAAM.
b. Future expansion program for SRNE
and IDAAM.
4. Reduce distortions and rationalize
the structure of utility pricing.
a.  Restructure utility pricing.                  -The Cabinet approved the principles   -Update the long-run marginal              -Implement the action plan.
for determining public utility           cost study for etectricity
pricing.                                 pricing and agree on an action
plan to move toward efficienry
pricing for electricity and
rationalization of the tariff
structure.
-Start and finalize a study on          -loppleent the action plan.
pricing for teltcamunications
and ports, and agree on an
action plan.
v  tHE, IDAAW, APM, ItEL, Vittoria Sugar Milts, Cenmnto Bayano, Zona Libre. IPAT and Cttricos de Chirfqaf.



Pag    of 11
PANAMA'S ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
POLtCY MATRtX
C. PRIVATIZATIlO PRO"RAM
POLICY OSJECTIVES                    Dfl E BOR                             BY APRIL 30. 1992                    SECOND TRNCRE                      tHllD TRANH
1.  Increasw the efficiency of       -The Cabinet approved a
the econrmy and reduce the size      privatization program, and
of the pubtic sector.                established institutional
framework and a technical
privatization unit at MIPPE to
carry out the privatization
pror_m.
-Congress to approve a fraemeork -Issue norms to ensure timely,
privatization taw to enable the    efficient, and transparent
Executive Branch to divest          mechanisms for privatizatlon.
efficlently of public companies.
public assets, activities end
services.: I
-The Cabinet brought Air Pansma                                         -Bring the rest of the public        At least 3 publ'c corpanies
and CStricos de Chiriquf to a                                           companies (See Annex III,            listed in Amex ItII
position where tender documents                                         Attachment VII, Group A) to a        Attachment VII, Group A have
for bidding were issued by                                              position where tender documents    been sold to the private
private investors (See Annex III,                                       for bidding have been issued by    sector. Cor that their
Attachment vii, Group A).                                               private investors or offers          liquidation has been
solicited.                          determined appropriate by
the relevant authorities,
including the Judiciary, if
Wpp icabte.]
-The Cabinet approved and                                               -Implement the agreed-upon           -Verify copliance.
aro unced a privatizetion ptln                                          privatization plan.
for APN, to enable estabtishment
of a regutatory framework for
port operations and grant
concessions to the private sector
on the ports of Baltos aWn
Crfstobal.
/ Not approving a satisfactory taw Wltt trigger an event of default.



Page 4 of 11
PANAMA'S ELCNOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
POLICY MATRItX
C.I. Privati2ation of INTEL
POLICY OgJECTIVES                          BEfORE BOARD                          SECOND TRACNE                          tHIRD TRAeH
Restructure the                         -The Cabinet approved and              *Congressional approvaL of a            -Establish the regutatory
telecommunications sector and           announced a privatization               law, satisfactory to the Sank          agency, with adequate staffing,
privatize INTEL to increase the         program  and appointed a               and the Executive Branch in             for telecotmuficationo.
sector's efficiency; foster             technical privatization unit at        Panam, to restructure the
coopetition and technological           MIPPE.                                 telecommunications sector, to           -Initiate the International
advanees in the sector; and                                                    establish a regulatory authority        selection of a prospective
reduce high charges for                                                        for the teleconuajnications             buyer to operate INTEL.
overseas catts.                                                                sector, and to privatize INTEL.
(A)



Page S of 11
PANAMA'S ECONOMIC RECDVERY LOWN
POLICY MATRIX
D. TAX REFORM
POLICY OBJECTtVES                              EFRE BOARD                         SECOND TRANCH                          ItRo TRARCHE
1. Reduce disincentives to             1. Congress approved a tax reform
work, invest, and save;                 law in December 1991 that contains
simplify and rationalize the            the following measures:
tax system; and improve its
elasticity and equity. Ensure           a. Coroorate income tax                  -Iwplement the program                -Continue to icplement the
revemue-neutrality of the tax          Reduce the highest marginl%t tax          pursuant to the new law to            program, with the minifum rate
reform program.                        rate (i.e., 50X) in stages and            reduce tax rates; with the            being Increased to 30X, and the
apply 34X for companies Whose            minim= rat2 being raised from         maximum rate being reduced to
armuam   earnings exceed USSO.5          20X to 27.5X, and the maximum         42X.
million and 30X for conpanies whose      rate being reduced from 502 to
yearly earnings are (ess than            45X.
US$0.5 miltion by lo tater than
January 1, 1994.
b. Personal income tax rates             -Implement the program.               -Verify compliance.
Reduce the tax rate spread from
2.5% - 56X to 4X - 30X by 1992.
c. Tax brackets
Reduce the number of tax brackets        -Continue to ifplement a              -Finalize the program to reduce
from 20 to 11.                           program to reduce tax                 the rumber of tax brackets.
brackets.
d. Packaae of easures to ensure          -Verify cooptiance to ensure          -Verify compllance.
revenueuneutrality of the tax            revenue-neutroAlity.
reform
Increase the value added tax on
atcoholic beverages and cigarettes
from 5X to 10X, and increase a
imaber of agreed-upon charges, and
fees to ensure revenue-neutrality
of the tax reform package.



Page 6 of II
LM_MIAS ECMMOIC RECOVERY LOA
POLICY MATRIX
E. TRADE PEF3R
E.I. Industrv/Aoro-Industry
POLICY OBJECTIVES                          BEfORE BoARD                               SECOD TRACE                                THIRD TRANCHM
1. Eliminate specific ipWort            -tmport tariff rates were reduced             -Eliminate specific import               -Eliminate all remaining specific
tariff rates end convert all rates      to 60X for industriat products and            tariff rates on 261 products,             qmport tariff rates.
to ad-valore. rate.                     to 90X for agro-industriat                    which cover about 90X of
products.                                    domestic production.
2. Reduce high nominal tariff           -The Cabinet approved and announced                                                    -Reduce import tariff rates to 40X for
rates.                                  a tariff reduction program to                                                          industrial products and SOX for agro-
reduce iqiwr  tariff rates to 40X                                                     industriat products.
for industrial products and 50X for
agro-industrial products before
third tranche.
3.  Reduce high effective                -The Cabinet increased the minimum           -Verify compliance.                      -Verify empliance.
protection and eliminate inport          import tariff rate to 5X for atl
tariff exenptions.                      goods classified under the Centro             -Unify inport tariff rates for
de Compras (i.e. tourist goods) on           agricultural products used both
January 1  1992; maintained the              as iqnuts and final conswption.
imiiuimu import tariff rate at SX
for industrial inputs covered under
Law 3.
4. Decontrol prices.                                                                  -Eliminate price controls on             -Restrict the scope and powers of the
industrial products covered             Price Regulations Office to an
under Law 3.                            informationat fumation, nd amend
Decree 60, March 1969. accordingty.



Anewx V
Page 7 of 11
PANAM S ECOWOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
POLICY MATRIX
E.tl. Agricuttural Trade Liberalization Propram'
POL -CY OJECTIVES                           SERE 8oARR                                 SECO    TRANCHE                     THIRD TBAMCHE
5. Introduce a trade
lfberalfzatfan progras for
agricutture to increase the
efficiency of the economy by
reduing ioort tariff rates
and etiminating quantitative
restrictions (ORs) on irports
and domestfc prfee controls.
A.  Mil cram (rice, corn,                -Eliminated OR and domestic             -Eliminate QR and domestic price         -Eliminate quantitative inport
sorphum, beans, potatoes,               price controls on veeetabtes,            controts an  corn, sorshum,              restrictions wnd domestic price
onions, tomatoes and other               except for potatoes, beans,             beans, potatoes, and onions.             controls on rice and toutoes.
vegetables).                             onions, and tomatoes.
8. Export orod*cts                       -Eliminated all export                  -Maintain elisination. **                -Maintain elimination.
(including bananas and              restrictions.                                                                     **                                a
coffee).
C. fafn Lfvestock oroducts               -Eliminated OR and domestic             -Eliminate QR and domestic price
(beef, chicken, and pork).              price controls en beef.                  controls on chicken and pork.
I ln all cases, required tariff rate redUctions are presented in Annwex III, Attachment ix, page 1.



Pap 8iof 11
PAIA S EcoNtC QEOOVERY LoAM
POLICY MATRIX
F. OEREWLATI OF LABOR NAReETS
POLICY OJECTLYES                          gm1 gm                                     s1o1 3NE                                  tNlRD TRANMCE
1. Redwce labor costs, including           1. The government introduced the
the cost of dismissals and                 following measures:
increase labor mobility.
(a) allowing the government to designate
a third party to arbitrate on work-
related issues to expedite the resolution
of Labor conflicts and prevent labor
convfticts;
(b) allowing automatic extension of
collective bargaining agreements for
1991-92;
(c) extending the period of collective
bargaining to 3 years for newly
estabtished firms; and
(d) establishing a tripartite committee
(representing the Government labor and
managewent) to review labor regulations
that affect how tabor markets operate.
2. The Cabiret approved a program to
liberalize labor markets and reduce labor
costs.  The program  aong others. milt
include the following:
(a) reducing the cost of dismissing for
economic reasons;
(b) allowing firms facing difficult
economic and  minansial probles to use
workable mechanisms for modifying labor
constraints;
(c) allowing the operation of private
sector eploWtonyt agencies; and
Cd) shortening the time permitted for the
Ministry of Labor needs to process labor
regulations.



Page 9 of 11
PANAMA'S ECUOaMIC RECOVERY LOAN
POLICY MATRIX
6. SOCIAL SECURITY REFORMS
POLICY OBJECTIVES                                    BEFORE BOARD                                 SECOND TRANCHE               TNIRD TRANCHE
1. Eliminate the cash deficit of           -Congress approved a sociat security reform  law            -Verify compliance.            -Verify compliance.
the social security system in no           in December 1991. to eliminate the cash deficit
more than 10 years without                 of the social security system  in no more than 10
raising contribution rates for             years.  Key measures included in the law are:
employers.
a) No increase in contribution rates for
employers.
b) Eliminate the early retirement provisions on
January 1, 1993.
c) Increase the retirement age for men from 60
to 62. and for women from 55 to 57 on January
1, 995.
d)  Allocate one-third of the thirteenth-month
salary bonus for both public and private
sector employees to CsS.
e) Reduce the benefit formula base from 60%
of the base salary plus 1.25% after 10
years and 1.5% after 20 years to 60% plus
1.25% after 15 years.
f) Allow eligibitity for pensions for up to
retirement arje to reduce pension cost.
g) Set pensionable salary for the pension
calculation on the highest best (in
nominal terms) 7 years of working life
instead of the present best 3 years of
the past 15 years.
h) Maintain the current practice of not
revaluing pensions except for minmm
pensions (i.e. USSI4S a month) iuhch will be
adJusted every three years provided CCS's
finances permit.
i) Shift 0.5% of contribution from the medical
scheme to the pension scheme and improve
aduinistration to etiminate deficit of the
health-care component before the end of 1994.



ArwV
Page 10 of 11
PANAMA'S ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
POLICY NATRIX
G. SOCIAL SECURITY REFORMS {cont.
POLICY OBJECTIVES                                     BEFORE BOARD                                         LErL    TRB NCNE           THIRD TRANCHE
J) Define an appropriate investment policy and,
as part of this, invest reserves in high-
grade securities to incremse yield consistent
with prudent levels of risk.
2.  Eliminate the cash deficit of           -Agreed on terms of reference for a study to               -Finalize preparation          -Start implementing the
the government complementary               develop an action plan to generate amual savings            of, and agree on the           agreed-upon action plan.
pension scheme in 1993.                    of USS21-25 million by increasing revenues and/or           action plan, to
reducing expenditures to eliminate the cash                eliminate the
deficit of the government coMplementary pension            projected cash
scheme.                                                    deficit of the
government
complementary pension
scheme in 1993 and
avoid the emergence
of cash deficits in
the next 10 years.
3.  Provide administative                   -The above-mentioned law gives administrative
autonomy to CSS.                           autonomy to CSS as part of the social security
reform program.
4. Rationalize the use of                   -The Cabinet agreed on the terms of references             -Agree on action               -Complete implementation of
resources in the provision of              for developing action plans to introduce a cost             plans and initiate             the action plans.
health-care services and                   allocation scheme between the Ministry of Health            Implementation of
etiminate the cash deficit of the          and CSS, and an action plan to reduce costs of              plans.
medical care through cost                  the health-care component of the CSS.
containment.



Pag -II of 11
PAHAMA'S ECOOMIC RECOVERY LOAM
POLICY MAtRIX
K. S9CtAL SECTOR COMMPOENT
MPLICY OBJECTIVES                            BEFoRE BOARD                         SECOND TRANCHE                           THIRD TARACHI
1. Address the nutritional              -The Cabinet decided that NIPPE         -Agree on the objectives,                -Evaluate the results of the
needs of Lactating mothers,             will be the executing agency to         actions, targets, and timetables         pilot program wd agree an a
children up to the age of 5,            carry out the nutrition                  for the pilot phase of the              national progrnm.
and school-age children in the          program.                                nutrition program.
poorest regions.
8-
t



- 121 -                          Annex VI
page 1 of 2
Panam -
SOCIAL INDICATORS
NhANRESOURCES
Slm4 s 01r"~l919)          9.1 5                        3 17                -           k7       429 M
58.e ,9 S57.6         V.st
pSperlW ssq~~~~~~~~~Xs _ la~~~17                                           10 1 
PT;&  ~ ~    ~      ~    ~     mm~2.9                        jS202.0                          2.1         is8
P~m1aa~mapwtbv44                                                          2.9        2.9        3.0        29
Uwbmakm~~~I8m* ~~N~a1     45mw..              2.6~~      1.2        1.9       3.0         1.9        3.1
,5,,_ adpop21a&0                                               -                 2.876    514,043    831,021    S10.24
F ,,hum                          p, da p.            39.9        t.9       2.3         7         3            5
w~~~5~  .74          4AI                   .5        38          3.27
VA..                                               - ~~~~~~~erIwom55    41
C1dp-4I-(1S49)ud                                              -         96         a6-. 
p,    p     ,         51!4       3f4        let        61.6       .5         5
681  72.4       670QS2                 7
MM              GU         69.7       74          0           .         9
350    14810    243t         109.1_6
274. 3          30.        303
mI                                                         31         33"                   2          3
4mabm= af1aJ2                                                                                      WS
NATURALUESOVRCU7 2,=                                                                                  2AS    6%
*                   77         77 T7 R              308      21.68      16.764
21i zhd   al} 222               33 31
4 ..a,.d                                            46         43                 *             *0.7      .0.4
Defoinnaiam - ~~~~)     umI~~I            .0.6       .0.~7      .0.7       .04
A  aaw                              4b                   -        7.0         2        73.2       63.         79.7
       54 _w70  _           _t        _ rb _77.2
Populadon powth                             Infant morlali                       prilary schoo-  woflmet
I.



-122-                                   Am nl  VI
Paxanuss                                        2 of 2
SOCIAL INDICATORS
~~~pew                       (MOvo
INCOMEANDPOYVS
incas.
GPpercq(a-.1989)                     uS$            490    l,o       1.70D    1$50      t,320      t0
Pswt
p e y USt        USS.p4                      -        - p                -         -
Pop in d#olm pvt  t*d.pF"" 
Pm <m atb                           %d o  p 
EXPENDmrrLE
Food                               %ofGDP            -    _         _ .    _               .
aa&muiIs 3t9                 7i 5     11    1757                36.78
1919i41e1K 9. 4           i 9te                                la#
SIOD "||s;;    S 17.0                       1       2,1       II.I
Rloig                               .ofDP__
A=gohaabolU                    pu    -pw    14                 I.__
Pluiw4vmuoufuhowml                 sdof GO            .       .        3.W                   
ad aDP                 -7                                        -7 
eyEs         ~deqiwlq       3.06     X,.2m      t        9671t    543.?   1527.7
kgof on abdiam  3
Tftoqt=d=w=ftR=               fOCDP--
44       26       is        17                 15
TINW  -NCUSA34                    U
DWWI)WJI4811MAlCAMrAL
Pquaadspen                          ppuSI          .2 Sf.,{           1'48      3       1451      1$
Aomatobemlih as,                                     -
bowui  (init l2 m  hoom           %cese4h1e                    _
OndIta6ou1binaqmayinadit5)         q..(m                              Su       33A       273 _
Iduafa                             S DP         _        _   _ _
%uda            1d.q40l                                           146 0 
Telanioysuy:-   %S245        1.7
P                     Pf               B    B    B    >    B f U    -    1
14,w         4                                                                                      t AoAst  17.1  $  tq tu
=   %dXWg,                 -  :          4 B           19.0
N.wspupwdemladm                   pet thou, p.w*   762       749      5,.l     81.1      739       83.0
Sama %W M* budtU                   I



- 123 -                 AnnSeVI;J
Page 1 of 5
PANAMA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
Sunolementarv Loan Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Kev Events
(a)  Time taken by the country tc prepare the loan s    7 months
(b)  Appraisal mission                               :    June 1991
(c)  Completion of negotiations                      :    January 1992
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness                   :    February 1992
Section II:    Soecial Bank Implementation Actions
Event of default.    Passage of a satisfactory privatization framework law
by April 30, 1992
Section III:   Board Presentation Conditions
(1) Agreement on savings targets for the general government and targets
for reducing the public wage bill (paras. 33-38 and Annex III,
Attachments i, ii, Iii, and iv).
(2) Agreement on the size and composition of the public investment
program for 1991-93 (paras. 54-56 and Annex III, Attachm.ent viii).
(3) Agreement that a draft enabling legislation will be presented to
Congress in March 1992 to improve procurement and budgetary
practices for public enterprises; on principles for pricing public
utilities and services; on action plans for IRHE and IDAAN; on a
program to improve the finances of PSEs, including targets for the
consolidated non-interest current outlays for the nine PSEs listed
in para. 431 on a program to privatize maintenance and security
services for IRHE and meter reading and bill collection for IDAAN;
and on expansion program for IRHE and IDAAN (paras. 41-46).
(4) Agreement on the privatization program; the Government established
a technical privatization unit at MIPPE and brought Air Panama and
Citricos de Chiriqui to a position where tender documents for the
bidding were issued to private investors; Cabinet approved a
privatization plan for INTEL and APN; and the Government
established a technical unit to privatize INTEL (paras. 48, 50-52).
(5) Agreement on the trade reform program with a calendar of actions
that includes: (i) implementation of the first steps of the trade



- 124 -                Annex lYU
Page 2 of 5
reform program (reduced import tariff ceilings to 60 percent for
industrial products and 90 percent for agro-industrial products on
August 1, 1991); (ii) agreeing to reduce import tariff rates to 40
percent for industrial products and 50 percent for agro-industrial
products before third tranche release; (iii) eliminating specific
import tariff rates on 261 products, which cover about 90 percent
of domestic production before oecond tranche release, and
eliminating the remaining specific import tariff rates before third
tranche release; (iv) raising the import tariff rate on goods
classified under the Centro de Compras (i.e., tourist goods) to 5
percent on January 1, 1992 (action already taken), and agreeing to
maintain import tariff rates for industrial inputs, covered under
Law 3, at 3 percent; (v) unifying import tariff rates on
agricultural products used both as inputs and for final consumption
before second tranche release; (vi) taking action to eliminate
domestic price controls, quantitative import restrictions, and
accompanying import tariff reductions on vegetables (except beans,
potatoes, and onions for which QRs and price controls will be
eliminated before second tranche release and for tomatoes before
third tranche release); and (vii) taking action to eliminate export
restrictions and QRs on domestic price controls on beef (and
reducing the import tariff rate on beef to 30 percent) before Board
presentation, on chicken and pork before second tranche release,
and on agricultural products, except sorghum and rice for which
quantitative restrictions and price controls will be eliminated
before second and third tranche release, respectively (paras. 67,
73, 75).
(6)  Agreement on a program to liberalize labor markets and to reduce
labor costs along the lines of the Government's program as outlined
in para. 82.
(7)  Agreement that MIPPE will be the agency to execute the nutrition
program (para. 105).
(8)  Passage of a satisfactory tax legislation through Congress in late
December 1991 (para. 63).
(9)  Passage of a satisfactory socLal security legislation through
Congress in early December 1991, agreement on terms of references
for preparing action plans to eliminate the projected cash deficit
of the government complementary pension scheme in 1993, for
developing an adequate cost allocation system between the Ministry
of Health and CSS, and to reduce costs of the health-care component
of the social security system (para. 93-96).



- 125 -                 _nn_X V_I
Page 3 of 5
C. Loan Effectiveness Conditions
None
D.  The Followino are Conditions for Second Tranche Release
(1) Achievement of the agreed-upon savings targets for the general
government and implementation of the program to reduce the public
wage bill (paras. 33-38).
(2) Satisfactory implementation of the agreed-upon public investment
program (paras. 54-56).
(3) Congressional approval of a law, satisfactory to the Bank,
establishing improved procurement and budgetary practices of public
sector enterprises (paras. 41-42).
(4) Implementation of a program to improve the finances of PSEe,
including not exceeding the targets for the consolidated non-
interest current outlays for the PSEs mentioned in para. 43;
progress in successfully implementing action plans, including
compliarce with the financial and operational efficiency targets
for IRHE and IDAAN; updating the long-run marginal cost study for
electricity; agreement on an action plan to move electricity prices
to long-run marginal costs; and undertaking a study on pricing for
telecommunications and ports (paras. 41-46).
(5) Congressional approval of a law, satisfactory to the Bank, to
restructure and regulate the telecommunications sector and to
privatize INTEL; to issue satisfactory norms to ensure that
mechanisms and procedures for privatization are timely, efficient,
and transparent; to bring all public companies listed in Annex III,
Attachment vii (Group A) to the point where tender documents for
bidding have been issued by private investors or offers have been
solicited; and to grant concessions for the ports of Balboa and
Crist6bal to the private sector (paras. 48, 50-52).
(6) Implementation of a program to adjust corporate income tax rates
and decrease the number of personal income tax brackets according
to the approved law (para. 63).
(7) Elimination of price controls on industrial products covered under
Law 3 and continued phasing out of QRs and import permits, domestic
price controls, and related import tariff rate reductions on corn,
sorghum, potatoes, onions, beans, chicken, and pork; elimination of
specific import tariff rates on 261 products, which cover about 90
percent of production; unifying import tariff rates on agricultural



- 126 -                  Anu    VII
Page 4 of 5
products used both as inputs and for final consumption, and
maintenance of a 3 percent minimum import tariff rate on industrial
inputs covered under Law 3 (paras. 63, 67, 73, 75).
(8) Agreement on an action plan to eliminate the cash deficit of the
government complementary pension scheme in 1993; agreement on an
action plan and initiation of its implementation to rationalize the
cost allocation system between the Ministry of Health and CSS; and
agreement on an action plan to reduce costs of the health-care
component of CSS (para. 93-96).
(9) Agreement on the objectives, actions, targets, and timetables for
the pilot phase of the nutrition program (para. 105).
E. The Jollowina are Conditions for Third Tranche Release
(1) Achievlng agreed-upon savings targets for the general government
and completing the program to reduce the public wage bill (paras.
33-38).
(2) Satisfactorily implementing the agreed-upon public investment
program (paras. 54-56).
(3) Implementing a program to improve the finances of PSEs, including
not exceeding the targets for the consolidated non-interest current
outlays for the PSEs mentioned in para. 43; achieving progress in
successfully implementing action plans, including compliance with
the financial and operational efficiency targets for IRHE and
IDAAN, implementing the privatization program for IRHE and IDAAN,
and implementing an action plan for pricing for electricity, water,
telecommunications, and ports; and ensuring implementation of
satisfactory legislation to improve procurement and budgetary
practices of public sector enterprises (paras. 41-46).
(4)  Establishing an adequately staffed regulatory agency for
telecommunications and issuing tender documents for international
bidding by private investors for a controlling ownership interest
in INTEL; completing implementation of the privatization program
for IRHE and IDAAN; privatizing at least three public companies
listed in Annex III, Attachment vii (Group A); and continuing to
implement the program to grant concessions on ports of Balboa and
Crist6bal to the private sector (paras. 48, 50-52).
(5) Implementing a program to adjust corporate income tax rates and
decreasing the number of personal income tax rate brackets
according to the approved law (para. 63).



- 127 -                   nnex VII
Page 5 of 5
(6) Completing the agreed-upon trade reform program by eliminating all
remaining specific import tariff rates; establishing an import
tariff rate ceiling of 40 percent for industrial products and 50
percent for agro-industrial products; maintaining a 3 percent
minimum import tariff rate on industrial inputs, covered under Law
31 converting the price-setting institution, Oficina de Rewulacin
de Precios, into a consumer protection agency, Oficina de
Prot,ecci6 al Consumidor (para. 75), and amending Decree 60, March
1969, accordingly; eliminating QRs and domestic price controls on
rice and tomatoes, and introducing agreed tariff rate reductions
(paras. 63, 67, 73, 75).
(7) Starting implementation of the program to eliminate the projected
cash deficit of the government complementary pension scheme, and
completing implementation of the action plan to introduce a
satisfactory cost allocation system between the Ministry of Health
and CSS, and finalizing the implementation of a program to reduce
costs of health-care component of CSS (paras. 93-96).
(8) Evaluating the results of the pilot program for nutrition and
agreeing on a plan to implement the nutrition program nationally
(para. 105).



