Page  1
                                                August 1992
His Excellency
Guillermo A. Ford B.
Minister of Economic Policy and Planning
Republic of Panama
            Re:   Loan No. 3438 (Economic Recovery Loan
                  Amendment of Loan Agreement
Excellency:
      This is in connection with the Loan Agreement between Republic
of Panama and the Bank, dated February 27, 1992 for the above Loan
(the Loan Agreement), and with Article II of the Procedural
Arrangement between the Bank and Japan' s Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF), dated as of March 24, 1992 and recently
acknowledged by Republic of Panama as of the same date.  Please find
attached the text of the cross-default clause provided for in the
said Article II.  The text of the provisions shown below correspond
to the one usually utilized by the Bank under these circumstances,
i.e. under standard Procedural Arrangements entered into with OECF
for purposes of their co-financing of Bank's loans.
      Consequently, the Bank hereby proposes the amendment of the
Preamble to this Loan Agreement and of Section 4.01 thereof by (i)
moving the symbols"; and" from the end of clause A of such Preamble
to that of clause B thereof, and from the end of paragraph (a) of
such Section 4.01 to that of paragraph (b) thereof, and by (ii)
adding to such Preamble and Section, respectively, new paragraphs
which will read as follows:
      I.    (Preamble to Loan Agreement)
      "C    by an agreement (the Cofinancing Loan Agreement) , dated
            as of March 24, 1992, the Overseas Economic Cooperation
            Fund (Japan) has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower
            in an aggregate principal amount of 12,950 million
            Japanese Yen (the Cofinancing Loan) to assist in
            financing the Program in the terms and conditions set
            forth in the Cofinancing Loan Agreement."
      II.   (Section 4.01 of Loan Agreement)
      "(c)  (i)   subject to paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
            (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of the Cofinancing Loan shall have been
                  suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                  part, pursuant to the terms of the Cofinancing
                  Loan Agreement; or
            (B)   the Cofinancing Loan shall have become due and
                  payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
          (ii)    subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower established to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  the Cofinancing Loan Agreement; and (B) adequate
                  funds for the Project are available to the
                  Borrower from other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Loan Agreement."
      As a consequence of the afore proposed new paragraph (c) of
Page  2
Section 4.01, it is also proposed that a new Section 4.02 be hereby
added to the Loan Agreement, to read as follows:
      "Section 4.0.2.  Pursuant of Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 4. 01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions of
paragraph (c) (ii) of such Section."
      If your are in agreement with the above proposed changes,
please signify so on behalf of Republic of Panama, as its
representative under Section 6.01  of the Loan Agreement, by signing
and dating the attached form of confirmation and by returning it to
us at your earliest convenience.
                            International Bank for
Republic of Panama            Reconstruction and Development
 /s/ Guillermo A. Ford      /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
Authorized Representative           Director
August 8, 1992                            Country Department  II
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
