Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18454
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
(Loan No. 3438-PA)
August 20, 1998
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$1 = 1 Balboa
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APN           National Port Authority (Autoridad Portuaria Nacional)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CCFF          Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility (IMF)
CFZ           Col6n Free Zone
CPF           Complementary Pension Fund
CSS           Social Security Agency (Caja del Seguro Social)
DDSR          Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DTF           Development Trust Fund
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
ICSID         Intemational Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes
IDAAN         National Water and Sewerage Institute (Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales)
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IFC           Intemational Finance Corporation
IFI           Intemational Financial Institution
EIMF          Intemational Monetary Fund
INTEL         National Telecommunications Institute (Instituto Nacional de Telecomunicaciones)
IRHE          Hydroelectric Resources and Electrification Institute (Instituto de Recursos Hidroelectricos y
Electrificaci6n)
ISA           Agricultural Crop Insurance Institute (Instituto de Seguro Agricola)
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan
MICI          Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Ministerio de Comercio e Industria)
MIGA          Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MIPPE         Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Politica Econ6mica)
MOH           Ministry of Health
NFPS          Nonfinancial Public Sector
OECF          Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PNP-C         Pilot Nutrition Program-Chiriquf
PSE           Public Sector Enterprise
QR            Quantitative Restriction
SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA           Stand-by Arrangement (IMF
SIACAP        Saving and Pension Fund for Public Employees
TA            Technical Assistance
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
USAID         U.S. Agency for International Development
WTO           World Trade Organization
Vice President:       Shahid Javed Burki
Director:            Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Lead Economist:      Ian Bannon
Task Manager:        Mario A. Cuevas



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary .......................................................                                                                    i-iv
PART  I:   Program  Implementation Assessment ........................................................1
Background ........................................................1
Program  Objectives and Design ........................................................1
Achievement of Objectives ........................................................1
Improved Macroeconomic Framework ........................................................1
Improvement in Fiscal Performance ........................................................2
Public Enterprise Reform  and Privatization .........................                       ..............................3
Trade Reform  .......................................................5
Deregulation ........................................................6
Tax Reform ........................................................7
Labor Market Reform  .......................................................7
External Debt Management and Creditworthiness ........................................................                    8
Social Security Reform  .......................................................8
Poverty Reduction ........................................................9
Risks and Project Sustainability .......................................................                                        10
Bank Performance .......................................................                                                        12
Technical Assistance .......................................................                                             12
Cooperation with the IMvF .......................................................                                        13
Cooperation with the IDB ....................................................... 13
Cooperation with USAID  and UNDP .......................................................                                 13
Cooperation with Japan's OECF .......................................................                                    13
Borrower Performance .......................................................                                                    14
Future Operations .......................................................                                                       14
Lesson Learned .......................................................                                                          14
PART II: Statistical Tables .......................................................                                                            16
Table 1:    Sunmnary of Assessments .......................................................                                     17
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans .......................................................                                          18
Table 3:  Project Timetable .............................. 19
Table 4:  Cumulative Loan Disbursements ..............................                                                         20
Table 5A: Key Economic Indicators (New  Methodology) ...................................................  21
Table 5B: Key Economic Indicators (Original Methodology) ................................................ 22
Table 6:    Major Related Studies ................................................... 23
Table 7:    Status of Legal Covenants ................................................... 24
Table 8:    Bank Resources ................................................... 35
Table 9:    Bank Missions ................................................... 36
ANNEX I: Borrower Assessment
ANNEX II: OECF Comments on ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
Loan No. 3438-PA
Preface
This is the IrnpIementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery Loan to
Panama, for which Loan No. 3438-PA in the amount of US$120 million equivalent was approved on
February 20, 1992, and which became effective on March 6, 1992. The Loan was closed on March 31,
1997, after three extensions of the closing date. The Government of Japan (OECF) cofinanced the
Economic Recovery Loan with US$100 million.
This ICR was prepared by Mario A. Cuevas (PSDBE), with the collaboration of Richard L.
Ground (LCSPR). Ricardo Tejada (LCC2C) prepared the Statistical Tables. The ICR was reviewed by
Ian Bannon (Lead Economist, LCC2C) and Donna Dowsett-Coirolo (Director, LCC2C). The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the program which is
included as Annex I of the ICR. OECF reviewed a draft of the ICR and submitted brief comments, which
are included as Annex II.
The ICR is based on the President's Report, the Loan Agreement, other material in the project
files, discussions with Bank staff, reports prepared by Hernando Perez Montas (Consultant), Rafael
Yrarrazaval (Consultant), and Xiaomin Chen (PSDBE), and on the findings of a mission to Panama
during December 15-19, 1997, which held discussions with Government officials on implementation of
the Loan and preparation of a follow-on operation. The Mission did not leave a separate ICR aide-
memoire with Government, as it was agreed that program evaluation and lessons learned would be
discussed subsequently, once the Government had had a chance to prepare its own evaluation. These
discussions took place during April-July, 1998, as Government staff prepared and reviewed its own
evaluation of the program.



ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
PANAMA
Evaluation Summary
i.    Program Objectives and Design. The Economic Recovery Loan (ERL) was designed to
support the National Economic Development and Modernization Program launched by the Endara
Administration. In particular, the ERL aimed to: (i) support the restoration of a sustainable
macroeconomic framework, financial soundness and external creditworthiness through tax and public
expenditure reforms, and by strengthening the policy-making and implementation capacity of the
Government; (ii) initiate the rehabilitation, restructuring and privatization of state enterprises,
particularly of state utilities; (iii) liberalize input and output markets, through trade, price and labor
policy reforms; and (iv) improve the effectiveness of government programs and policies in the social
sectors. In addition, it would facilitate the flow of external financing and foreign investment.
ii.    The ERL (US$120 million equivalent) was approved by the Board on February 20, 1992, signed
on February 27, 1992, and became effective on March 6, 1992. It consisted of three tranches, US$60
million, US$25 million and US$33.1 million, respectively. The ERL also included a technical assistance
component (US$1.9 million), which supported the government unit in charge of implementing the
economic reform program. The ERL was cofinanced by the Government of Japan (OECF) with US$100
million.
iii.   The operation was extremely complex, encompassing a broad agenda of reforms. The broad and
detailed scope of conditions was too ambitious relative to the expected implementation time frame.
Implementation of the ERL program began under the Endara Administration in early 1992 and was
expected to be completed by mid-1993. In fact, it was completed with great success by the P6rez
Balladares Administration, but not until early 1997, after three extensions of the loan closing date. Clear
evidence of Government commitment to the reform program, combined with the critical role that this
operation played in the restructuring of Panama's foreign debt, justified extensions of the closing date.
The ultimate success of the reform program demonstrates that the Bank was justified in taking the risk of
extending the closing date several times.
iv.    Achievement of Objectives. Achievement of reform objectives was highly satisfactory. Over
the past three years, the P6rez Balladares Administration has implemented many of the fundamental
reformns needed to revive economic growth and begin attacking poverty. It has dismantled a labyrinth of
trade barriers and price controls; launched a far-reaching privatization program; concluded a DDSR
accord, restoring Panama's access to international financial markets on favorable terms; and strengthened
long-term public finances. The Bank also supported these reforms through a DDSR Loan and is working
with the Govermment on a second generation of measures to consolidate and deepen the reform process.
v.    In 1997 the economy began to respond to the reforms, when GDP rose by 4.4 percent. Growth
reduced unemployment to 13.2 from 14.3 percent a year earlier-the first decrease since 1993. Inflation
was nil-the basic consumption price index actually dropped 4.6 percent. Foreign investment increased
to US$850 million (10 percent of GDP), boosted by privatization in telecommunications. Faster growth
widened the current account deficit from 1.6 to 3 percent of GDP. The external debt declined to 64
percent of GDP in 1997. Although growth decelerated to 3.9 percent in the first quarter of 1998 due to
El Nifio, growth is expected to approach 5 percent in 1998, and to accelerate further thereafter. Activity
will be especially dynamic in primary and tertiary exportables and utilities. By 2000, when the Canal
reverts to Panama growth of 6 percent is projected. The current account deficit is projected to decline to



ii
less than 2 percent of GDP, the public external debt to 52 percent of GDP, and the debt-service ratio to
12.5 percent.
vi.    Fiscal Performance. The design of the fiscal and public employment component focused on a
reduction, of public current outlays and included a program to increase general government savings, a
program to decrease noninterest current outlays and improve the operational productivity of the general
government, a program to reduce the public wage bill, and a public investment program. Achievement of
objectives was substantial.
vii.   Public enterprise reform and privatization. Significant progress was made in promoting private
sector participation in the economy through implementation of the public enterprise reform and
privatization component. Achievement of objectives was substantial, including in telecommunications,
electricity, water and sanitation, highways and ports.
viii.   Trade Reform. Under the ERL, Panama took decisive action to liberalize its external sector. lThe
trade reform component was specific, and reform objectives were spelled out as quantified policy targets
to be reached by specified deadlines. Achievement of objectives was substantial.
ix.    Deregulation. Domestic deregulation was expected to increase total factor productivity zad
enhance the supply response to trade reform. To make trade reform more effective, the Govemmant
introduced domestic deregulation measures to increase labor mobility, to free controlled domestic prices
and to free pricing of public services. Achievement of objectives was substantial.
x.    Tax Reform. Nontrade tax reforn aimed at broadening the tax base and making the tax system
simpler, more efficient, and easier to administer, thus reducing disincentives to work, invest, and save.
Achievement of objectives was substantial.
xi.    Labor Market Reform. Over-regulation of hiring and firing practices in Panama's labor market
had seriously impaired job creation and mobility. Anecdotal evidence as well as preliminary analysis
indicate that labor market reforms are contributing to a significant increase in the employment elasticity
of output, with a favorable impact on employment generation. Achievement of objectives was
substantial.
xii.   External Debt Management and Creditworthiness. The ERL was critical to restoring Panama's
creditworthiness and normalize relations with creditors, particularly in context of the DDSR operation.
Achievement of objectives was substantial.
xiii.  Social Security Reform. With the creation of SIACAP, the CPF-generated deficit will disappear
over time. The MOH and the Social Security Agency are applying the principle of cost separation on a
continuous basis. Achievement of objectives in the social security refonn component was substantial.
xiv.   Poverty Reduction. The reform program emphasized policies that would mitigate the bias against
employment creation and reduce the high cost of the basic consumption basket. Efficiency in resource
use and private investment is being promoted through privatization and regulatory reform. Transport
reforms also helped the poor more directly by improving the quality, increasing the supply and lowering
the price of public transportation. Reforms in the delivery of water and electricity likewise benefited the
poor by assuring more complete coverage and improving service delivery. Price deregulation and trade
reform have already altered the incentive framework and increased agricultural production and
employment opportunities in the countryside, where most of the poor live. The Government is instituting
new mechanisms to protect those most susceptible to malnutrition and vector-transmitted diseases,



through the Social Emergency Fund, and improving efficiency and equity in social expenditures through
sector reforms, especially in social security, health and education. All in all, achievement of objectives
was substantial.
xv.   Risks and Sustainability. Sustainability of the major objectives of the ERL is considered very
likely, based on: (i) strong Government conmmitment and progress in implementation of a second
generation of reforms to consolidate and deepen ERL achievements; (ii) a favorable macroeconomic
environment; and (iii) continuing Bank support through a follow-on adjustment operation and a
companion TA loan, in close coordination with the IMF and IDB. The principal risk identified at this
stage is the possible loss of policy reform momentum in the event the opposition were to win the
elections in 1999.  A secondary risk to sustainability relates to a significant worsening of the
international economic environment following the crisis in Asia. A preliminary analysis indicates that
depending on the magnitude and specific characteristics of the Asian crisis, Panama may even benefit by
increasing Canal traffic due to greater exports from Asia, lower import prices of goods for consumption
and re-export, and increasing demand for Panamanian financial instruments due to the absence of
exchange risk. In any case, following implementation of ERL-supported reforms Panama is now better
positioned to withstand external shocks.
xvi.   Bank Performance.   The Bank's perfornance is considered satisfactory in project
identification, preparation assistance and appraisal, and highly satisfactory in supervision.
Nevertheless, project design had certain weaknesses. The program was too complex and conditionality
too detailed relative to the implementation time frame as well as the Borrower's implementation
capacity. One particular design flaw worth mentioning relates to the social security reform component.
At project design, the viability of eliminating the operational cash deficit of the CPF within a certain time
frame was overestimated. A subsequent study conducted with the support of the ERL technical assistance
component showed that the operational cash deficit of the CPF could not be eliminated without also
reforming the special labor laws, unless individual contributions were raised from 9.2 to 17.1 percent of
salary including social security contributions, and the inequities of the CPF were maintained. Technical
assistance funds were utilized mostly in supporting the design and implementation of the economic
reform program of the Perez Balladares Administration. The Bank worked closely with the IMF and
IDB in preparing, appraising, and implementing the ERL.
xvii.  Borrower Performance. Borrower performance was satisfactory  in project design,
implementation and covenant compliance.  In assigning a satisfactory rating in implementation and
covenant compliance, it must be borne in mind that there is a clear contrast between the implementation
performance of the Endara and Perez Balladares Administrations.  The Endara Administration
strengthened civilian governance and electoral transparency, but was unable to carry out the structural
reforms needed to shift Panama to a high growth path. The performance of the Endara Administration
was satisfactory before Board presentation but deficient afterwards. By contrast, over the past three
years the Perez Balladares Administration has been highly successful in implementing the reforms
needed to achieve sustained economic growth and reduce poverty. Implementation under the Perez
Balladares Administration has been highly satisfactory.



iv
Lessons Learned
* Design of reform programs should aim for simplicity and compactness. Experience indicates t]hat
where there is a need for a reform agenda as broad and complex as the ERL's, it may be preferable to
develop several sequential adjustment operations tailored to a borrower's implementation capacity rather
than one large operation. In any case, the length of the implementation timetable should reasonably
match the breadth and degree of complexity of the reform agenda.
* The ultimate success of the ERL demonstrates that under certain circumstances, the Bank can justify
the pursuit of a "high risk-high reward" strategy. For example, if no extensions to the closing date had
been granted, a new reformist administration may have lacked Bank support at a crucial stage, as a result
of implementation delays for which an earlier admninistration was responsible. Moreover, assessment of
the risk-reward tradeoff must take full account of the cost of implementing alternatives, for example, of
initiating a new operation following closure of an unsuccessful one.
* This operation confirms once again the desirability of local ownership of reform programs being
shared by the govermnent and key groups in civil society. Inplementation of the reforms could have
been accelerated if the Endara Administration had retained support in the Legislative Assembly, or if the
support of a broader range of groups in civil society had been rallied from the beginning.
X While specificity is essential to avoid ambiguity with respect to adjustment loan conditionalities,
flexibility is also called for. The overall thrust of the program and the degree of fulfillment of its
objectives, should be taken into consideration when judging whether or not the Borrower has
substantially complied with specific loan conditionalities. For example, although a few performance
targets specified in the action plans for the rehabilitation of IRHE and IDAAN had not been met, the
government had nevertheless substantially complied with second tranche release conditions relating to
the action plans, because other targets were exceeded and the overall thrust of the reforms was on track.
* The ERL demonstrates once again the desirability of having the passage of satisfactory legislation as
conditions for Board presentation and not as tranching conditions. Legislation passed before Board
presentation (privatization and tax laws) has provided a solid foundation to subsequent reforms. By
contrast, a law authorizing the restructuring of the telecommunications sector was a condition for release
of the second tranche; had the Assembly failed to pass this law in time, release of the second tranche
could have been further delayed.
* Public expenditure reform should be derived from considerations of the appropriate role of
government following a public sector expenditure review, and identification of a systematic set of actions
that would ensure achievement of targets. The ERL specified a rather ambitious public sector
employment reduction program with quantitative targets to be achieved by certain dates. A substantial
portion of employment reduction was expected to result from voluntary retirement and privatization. The
high degree of target specificity did not match the relative crudeness of the mechanisms proposed f^or
achieving those targets.



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    Over the two and half decades preceding the Economic Recovery Loan (ERL), governments adopted
increasingly interventionist policies, including high protection, a rigid labor code, nationalization of utility
companies, and creation of many state enterprises. Other factors also reduced growth and increased
financial and economic imbalances.  First, the tax system discouraged private investment, formal
employment and savings, and encouraged evasion. Second, financial imbalances in the social security
system became more severe and high payroll taxes discouraged employment. Third, the low level of public
investment, especially in infrastructure, made it difficult to resume sustained growth. Two structural
adjustment loans (SALs) preceded the ERL. Under SAL 1 (1983, US$60 million) Panama lifted some export
restrictions and price controls, shifted from quotas to import tariffs on a variety of industrial goods,
privatized one hotel and a sugar mill, and closed a public development bank. SAL II (1986, US$100
million) aimed at deepening these reforms, but because of failure to reform the social security system, back-
tracking in trade reform, and general deterioration of economic management, SAL II was canceled. After a
period of severe economic and political upheaval preceding the U.S. military intervention, the Endara
Administration sought to return the country to a path of sustained growth and in 1991 formulated a structural
adjustment program with Bank assistance.
Program Objectives and Design
2.    The ERL was designed to support the National Economic Development and Modernization Program
launched by the Endara Administration. The ERL aimed to: (i) support restoration of a sustainable
macroeconomic framework, financial soundness and external creditworthiness through tax and public
expenditure reforms, and by strengthening the Government's policymaking and implementation capacity;
(ii) initiate the rehabilitation, restructuring and privatization of state enterprises, particularly state utilities;
(iii) liberalize input and output markets, through trade, price and labor policy reforms; and (iv) improve the
effectiveness of government programs and policies in the social sectors. In addition, it would facilitate the
flow of external financing and foreign investment. The ERL (US$120 million) was approved by the Board
on February 20, 1992, signed on February 27, 1992, and became effective on March 6, 1992. It consisted of
three tranches, US$60 million, US$25 million and US$33.2 million, and a technical assistance component
(US$1.8 million), which supported the government unit in charge of implementing the economic reform
program. The ERL was cofinanced by Japan (OECF) with US$100 million. The operation was extremely
complex, encompassing a broad reform agenda. The broad and detailed scope of conditions was too
ambitious relative to the expected implementation schedule. Implementation of the ERL program began
under the Endara Administration in early 1992 and was expected to be completed by mid-1993. In fact, it
was completed with great success by the P6rez Balladares Administration, but not until early 1997, after
three extensions of the loan closing date. Clear evidence of Government commitment to the reform
program, combined with the critical role that the ERL played in the restructuring of Panama's foreign debt,
justified extensions of the closing date. The ultimate success of the adjustment program demonstrates that
the Bank was justified in taking the risk of extending the closing date several times.
Achievement of Objectives
Improved Macroeconomic Framework
3.    Achievement of reform objectives has been highly satisfactory. In the past three years, the Perez
Balladares Administration has implemented key reforms needed to revive growth and begin attacking
poverty. It has dismantled a labyrinth of trade barriers and price controls; launched a far-reaching
privatization program; concluded a DDSR accord, restoring Panama's access to the international financial
markets on favorable terms; and strengthened long-term public finances, having downsized the state and



2
external debt. The Bank supported these reforms through a DDSR Loan as well as the ERL, and is working
with the Administration on the consolidation and deepening of the reform process. In 1997 the economy
began responding to the reforms. Panama's actual performance has matched and sometimes exceecded
projected performance at the time of design of the ERL (see Table 5b). After two years of meager growth
and no improvement in the depressed labor market, GDP rose 4.4 percent despite the adverse effects of El
Nifio on agriculture, a downturn in Canal operations (due to decreased imports by China), and declining U.S.
Defense Department demand. In the past, such shock would have sent the economy into a tailspin. The
acceleration of growth was spearheaded by a 34 percent rise in the port sector (activity doubled in
Manzanillo, Panama's first private port, developed with IFC backing); a 15 percent increase in the CFZ (in
response to the elimination of CFZ taxes and strong growth in Latin America); 9 percent growth in
telecommunications (due to service expansion following privatization); and an 8 percent rise in construction
(as large private projects in ports, tourism, and highways were initiated). Growth reduced unemployment
from 14.3 to 13.2 percent in 1996-the first decrease since 1993. Inflation was negligible-the basic
consumption price index actually dropped 4.6 percent due to trade reforms. Faster growth widened the
current account deficit from 1.6 to 3 percent of GDP. Foreign investment soared to US$850 million (10
percent of GDP) due to privatization in telecommunications. The external debt, lowered by 14 percent of
GDP by the DDSR, declined to 64 percent of GDP in 1997. Although growth decelerated to 3.9 percent in
the first quarter of 1998 due to El Nino, growth is expected to approach 5 percent in 1998, and to accelerate
further thereafter, on the strength of the response of private investors to policy reforms and Panama's
enhanced credit standing. Activity will be especially dynamic in primary and tertiary exportables and
utilities. Growth of 6 percent is projected by 2000, when the Canal reverts to Panama. The current accoumt
deficit is projected to decline to less than 2 percent of GDP, the public external debt to 52 percent of GD)P,
and the debt-service ratio to 12.5 percent.
Improvement in Fiscal Performance
4.    The design of the fiscal and public employment component focused on reducing current outlays and
included a program to increase general government savings, a program to decrease non-interest current
outlays and improve the operational productivity of the general government, a program to reduce the public
wage bill, and a public investment program. Achievement of objectives was substantial. The 1997 budget
approved by the Legislative Assembly targeted a shift in overall nonfinancial public sector operations to a
deficit of 0.9 percent of GDP (exclusive of capital revenues of about 3 percent of GDP from privatization
proceeds, and an exceptional outlay of about 3.6 percent of GDP for the liquidation of the Complementary
Pension Fund). This shift reflected costs associated with the structural reform program, and a substantial
increase in public investment in social sectors and infrastructure. This target was agreed with the IMF, in
connection with the successful completion of the second and final review of the IMF Stand-by Arrangement
(SBA). The Public Sector Finances Plan established annual targets for: (i) nonfinancial public sector
savings; (ii) general government current expenditure, exclusive of external interest obligations; and (iii) the
nonfinancial public sector wage bill. In 1996, nonfinancial public sector savings matched the target of 4.4
percent of GDP, (excluding the extraordinary items mentioned above), compared with 3.5 percent in 1995.
General government current expenditure was reduced to 19.8 percent of GDP, against a target of 20.2
percent. The nonfinancial public sector wage bill was maintained at 11.2 percent of GDP, against a ceiling
of 11.5 percent. For 1997, the budget targeted a further decline in the wage bill, to an estimated 10.5 percent
of GDP, through a continuation of the hiring freeze (excluding health, education, and security, which are
subject to constitutional provisions), the wage freeze (other than the automatic wage adjustments mandated
by special labor laws), and further progress in privatization. Panama met the conditions related to the
implementation of the Public Sector Finances Plan at the time of second and third tranche releases. The
Public Sector Investment Plan established targets for second tranche (1992) and third tranche (1993)
releases. With the extensions of the closing date, targets were set for 1994, 1995 and 1996. The 1995-96
targets were subsequently revised to bring them in line with the targets of the 1995-97 economic program
backed by the IMF SBA. Execution of the Public Sector Investment Plan was in line with the indicative
targets agreed, and at the time of second tranche release in 1996, and third tranche release in 1997, the Bank



3
was satisfied that the Public Investment Plan had been implemented in accordance with the agreed
conditions.
Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization
5.    Panama's public enterprise reform  and privatization program  reduced current expenditures,
improved the collection of accounts receivable, elinminated subsidies, and enabled public enterprises to catch
up with needed investments. Significant progress was made in promoting private sector participation in the
economy. Achievement of objectives was substantial, including in telecornmunications, electricity, water
and sanitation, highways and ports. The ERL had several conditions for Board presentation relating to
public enterprise reform and privatization, including: presenting draft legislation to the Assembly to
improve procurement procedures for public sector enterprises, announcing targets for consolidated non-
interest current outlays for nine selected public enterprises, announcing action plans for IRHBE (power
company) and IDAAN (water company), and Cabinet-level approval of the principles for determining public
utility pricing. Further conditions for Board presentation were: Cabinet approval of a privatization program,
establishment of an institutional framework and a technical privatization unit at the Ministry of Planning
(MIPPE) to carry out the privatization program, bringing Air Panama and Citricos de Chiriquf to a position
where tender documents for bidding were issued to private investors; Cabinet approval of a privatization
plan for APN (ports), establishment of a regulatory framework for port operations and granting concessions
on the ports of Balboa and Crist6bal to private sector operators. The 1992 Privatization Law (No. 16)
established a sound framework for the privatization of state-owned enterprises and the Government satisfied
second and third tranche conditions regarding the maintenance and enforcement of the Privatization Law.
6.    In 1993 the Assembly approved Law No. 28 which improved procurement procedures affecting
IDAAN. In 1995 it approved Law No. 6 which improved procurement procedures affecting IRHE. In
addition, Presidential Decree No. 189 (1993) stipulated that the procurement guidelines of the international
financial institutions (IFIs) would take precedence over national guidelines for the implementation of IFI-
financed projects. Subsequently, the Assembly approved Law No. 31 (1994), which made the bidding
process for public contracts more transparent and expeditious. In 1995 the Assembly also approved Law
No. 5, which brought public sector procurement procedures more in line with international standards.
Panama satisfied conditions related to the improvement of procurement procedures applicable to public
sector enterprises, including all necessary legislative changes and their implementation. The PSE Plan
established targets for second tranche (1992) and third tranche (1993) releases. Indicative targets were set
for 1994, 1995 and 1996 in connection with closing date extensions. The 1992-93 PSE Plan Targets for the
financial performance of the consolidated nonfinancial public sector (NFPS) were achieved. Panama also
met the 1994-95 indicative targets established with the closing date extensions, as revised in light of the
1995-97 economic program supported by the IMF. The 1996 PSE Plan targets were achieved, taking into
account the advancement of the one-time severance payment for APN workers. Current outlays (exclusive
of external interest payments) were reduced to 4.5 percent of GDP, against a 4.7 percent target. Further, in
1996 the NFPS enterprises registered an operating surplus equivalent to 4 percent of GDP, matching the
indicative target. Panama met second and third tranche release conditions related to the implementation of
the PSE Plan.
7.    Ti'el za.       . -     Ti   ir2r:rt completed a study and an agreed action plan for the pricing
of telecorn rnar.-~ -.>  Sm ,czes in October 1991, thus satisfying a second tranche condition.  The
Government began implementing the action plan in April 1994, reducing charges for direct dial domestic
long distance calls and faxes by an average of 10 percent. Executive Decree No. 253-A (1994) lowered fees
for direct dial international calls by about 20 percent. The action plan was subsequently revised by Cabinet
Resolution No. 245 (1995), in agreement with the Bank. It contemplated additional reductions in charges
for international and domestic long distance calls and increases in charges for local calls. Inplementation of
the action plan was expected to be completed in connection with the transfer to a strategic investor of a
con.trolng                      I      -        iations Istitute (NTEL. In February 1995, the



4
Assembly approved Law No. 5, providing for the incorporation and partial privatization of INTEL, and in
1996, approved the Basic Services Regulatory Entity Law (telecommunications, water and sanitation) and
the General Telecommunications Law (No. 73). Panama satisfied one of the conditions for second tranche
release with the approval of legislation authorizing the restructuring of the telecommunications sector, the
provision of certain services by the private sector, and setting out the legal framework for the creation of a
regulatory agency.
8.    The condition relating to the issuing of tender documents for the bidding by private investors of a
majority interest in INTEL, was waived by the Bank. The partial waiver was justified because Panama did
not satisfy the condition for reasons outside its control. The issuing of tender documents was delayed
because in August 1996 one of the two finms that had prequalified unexpectedly withdrew. In September
1996, the authorities re-opened the prequalification process, and by late February 1997, negotiatiLons
between the Government and two prequalified firms had been concluded on the concession contract and the
implementing regulations of the General Telecommunications Law. The tender documents were expected to
be released by end-March, 1997. Completion of the INTEL privatization process was also a condition for
release of the second tranche of IDB's adjustment operation. After release of the third tranche of the ERL,
the Government completed the sale of 49 percent of the stock of INTEL and awarded a 20 year concession
for management control to Cable and Wireless for US$652 million-equivalent to 7.6 percent of GDP.
9.    Electricity. An updated study on the long-term marginal cost of electricity and the action plan for
implementing its recommendations were completed and agreed in 1994. The action plan was revised by
Cabinet Resolution No. 245 (1995) as agreed with the Bank, and provided a framework for reform of the
provision and pricing of basic electricity services, thus meeting conditions related to pricing principles and
their implementation well before second tranche release. In February 1995, the Assembly approved, an
amendment to the electricity company charter law that opened generation, transmission and distribution to
the private sector. In December 1996, the Assembly approved Law No. 6, the General Electricity Law,
prepared with Bank technical assistance, providing for a radical restructuring of the sector. IRHE met the
second tranche performance targets of its financial rehabilitation action plan, as modified by the extensions
of the closing date. Postponement of second and third tranche releases meant that IRHE managed to achieve
third tranche targets (as per the plan agreed at the time of second tranche release) for six of the eight
performance indicators in early 1996. The timetables for the achievement of performance indicators were
modified in light of the extension of the closing date. At the time of third tranche release, IRHE had met six
of the eight (revised) third tranche performance indicators of the financial rehabilitation Action Plan.
10.   Water and sanitation.  IDAAN met four out of seven second tranche performance targets, as
defined in its financial rehabilitation action plan. It then met three of the five third tranche performance
targets, as per the information available at the time of third tranche release. In order to redress the remaining
sectoral deficiencies and create a solid foundation for economic expansion, the Government launched a
comprehensive restructuring and privatization program in the water and sanitation sector. In 1997 the
Assembly approved Law No.2, the General Water and Sanitation Law (prepared with IDB support) to
restructure the sector. Second and third tranche release conditions related to the implementation of the
IDAAN action plan were met.
11.   Ports.  The Government completed a study and an agreed action plan for the pricing of port
services as early as 1994, thus satisfying a second tranche condition. Service fees were brought into line
with those in the private port of Manzanillo. A second tranche condition on implementation of the APN
action plan received a partial waiver. Panama had contracted out launch services, and two of the three docks
in the Port of Balboa, as agreed in the APN plan. The Government, however, could not contract out the
terminal for cruise ships included in the plan, due to lack of private sector interest. At that time, the
Government had completed the contracting out of only one of the five docks agreed in the plan for the Port
of Crist6bal, and of the port's launch services, and had still to reforrn the regulatory framework.
Nevertheless, it is important to note that the Government had already contracted out the management and



5
operation of three docks in the port of Balboa not included in the APN plan, and had contracted out
container handling and storage in the port. Moreover, it had contracted out the operation and management
of two medium-size ports (Bahfa de las Minas and Coco Solo Norte) not included in the APN plan.
Although a number of actions in the APN plan had not yet been completed at the time of second tranche
release, it was clear that the objectives of the plan were fully attained. Port capacity expanded substantially,
operational efficiency improved significantly, service delivery was upgraded, and service charges were
reduced to competitive levels. The privatization of virtually all of APN's service delivery functions was
completed in early 1997 with the backing of the ERL, leaving APN to perform only a regulatory function.
As a result, third tranche conditions relating to implementation of the APN action plan were deemed met.
12.   Highways. The Government is opening traditionally state-dominated activities to the private sector,
including the financing, construction, operation and maintenance of major highways. The Northern
Expressway completed in late 1997 provides a high-speed thoroughfare between Tocumen International
Airport and downtown Panama City. Construction of the Panama City-Col6n Expressway started in 1997,
as did the Southern Expressway. These highways are being built and financed by private foreign investors
who are licensed to levy tolls and maintain the expressways for 30 years. Their total cost is US$560 million.
13.   Other sectors. The Government moved forward with other enterprises under the provisions of the
Privatization Framework Law. At the time of second tranche release, four of the seven Selected Enterprises
had been privatized (Corporaci6n Bananera del Atlantico, Corporaci6n Bananera del Pacifico, Citricos del
Chiriqui, and Cementos Bayano), and Air Panama had been liquidated. The remaining two had not yet been
brought to the point of sale (Instituto de Seguro Agropecuario, ISA, and Corporaci6n Azucarera La
Victoria). The Government and the Bank agreed that ISA would be replaced in the list of Selected
Enterprises by Palma Aceitera del Bard and Matadero del Azuero (which had been privatized as early as
December 1993), and the Fabrica de Ropa La Esperanza, Corporaci6n para el Desarrollo Integral de Bocas
del Toro and Empresa Nacional de Explosivos Nacionales (which the Government had liquidated in
September 1993, October 1993, and November 1994 respectively).' The Government had satisfied third
tranche conditions even before second tranche release. At the time of third tranche release, the Government
was preparing the privatization of the Corporaci6n Azucarera La Victoria and the Panama City-Col6n
Railroad. It was expected that these would be brought to the point of sale by June 1997, which did not
happen. The Government continued preparing the privatization or contracting out of the management and
operation of several other state enterprises, including the Atlapa Convention Center, the State Casinos, the
State Racetrack, and Tocumen International Airport.
Trade Reform
14.   The ERL supported a substantial liberalization of Panama's external sector. The trade reform
component was quite specific, and reform objectives were spelled out as quantified policy targets to be
reached before specified deadlines. Achievement of objectives was substantial.
15.   Conditions for Board presentation relating to the industrial and agro-industrial trade regimes
included: reducing import tariff rates to 60 percent for industrial products and to 90 percent for agro-
industrial products, increasing the minimum import tariff rate to 5 percent for all goods classified under the
Centro de Compras (tourist goods), and maintaining the minimum import tariff rate at 3 percent for
industrial inputs covered under Law 3. Conditions for Board presentation relating to the agricultural sector
included: eliminating QRs and domestic price controls on vegetables, excepting potatoes, beans, onions,
and tomatoes; eliminating all export restrictions; and eliminating QRs and domestic price controls on beef.
The combined revenues of these enterprises at the time of their respective privatization or liquidation exceeded the expected
revenues of the privatization of ISA, in accordance with provisions of the Loan Agreement. In lieu of the privatization of ISA,
the Government stated its desire to open the agricultural insurance market to the private sector. To this end, in October 1995 it
submitted a bill to the Assembly rescinding ISA's monopoly.



6
16.   As part of second tranche conditions, the Government would eliminate all import duties charged
other than on an ad-valorem basis on a mutually agreed list of products. It would also lift all price controls
on imports of industrial products that were subject to the provisions of Law 3, ensure that the minimum duty
applicable to any import not made under the provisions of Law 3 (other than tax-exempted imports) was
kept at an ad-valorem rate of not less than 5 percent, and that the rate in respect of import duties effectively
charged to imports made under the provisions of Law 3 was not less than 3 percent. Moreover, the
Government would equalize the applicable rate of import duty tariffs for each agricultural product
irrespective of whether the product was to be used as input or consumption. The Government and the Bank
also agreed on maximum rates of import duty on sorghum, beans, onions, potatoes, corn, chicken, and pork
meats. These second tranche conditions were met. In addition, a condition of second tranche release
required the Government to maintain the elimination of all previous export restrictions, QRs, and price
controls. These conditions were also met.
17.   Third tranche release conditions required the Government to eliminate all import duties charged
other than on an ad-valorem basis on the list of products that had been agreed with the Bank; to keep the
minimum duty applicable to any import not made under the provisions of Law 3 (other than tax-exempted
imports) at an ad-valorem rate of not less than 5 percent; to keep the rate in respect of import duties
effectively charged to imports made under the provisions of Law 3 at no less than 3 percent; to reduce the
maximum rate of the import duty tariff to 40 percent for industrial products and to 50 percent for agro-
industrial products, while maintaining all previous reductions for agricultural products. Cabinet Decree No.
44 and No. 45 (1996), and No. 13 (1997) reduced tariffs on all industrial and agro-industrial goods to
maximums of 40 and 50 percent, respectively. Cabinet Decree No. 45 lowered the import tariffs on the main
agricultural commodities to a range of 20-60 percent. Cabinet Decree No. 46 (1996) replaced specific and
mixed import duties with ad-valorem rates on 983 tariff code positions. Cabinet Decree No. 13 (1997)
transformed all remaining specific tariffs into ad-valorem ones, with the exception of those affecting 6
petroleum products (which would be transformed into ad-valorem and consumption taxes under WTO
Accession Protocol legislation). In addition, most remaining price controls were eliminated by March 1997
through an Executive Decree, including the price control on rice. The Government also adjusted the
maximum rate of the import duty tariff to the percentages agreed with the Bank for: beans, onions, potatoes,
tomatoes, corn, rice, and beef, pork, and chicken meats.
18.   Panama became a member of WTO in August 1997, after third tranche release. It must be noted that
due to international political considerations at the time of Panama's accession to the WTO, the maximum
tariff rates negotiated by Panama for a range of products actually exceeded the ceilings that had been agreed
with the Bank under the ERL. This caused a temporary policy inconsistency which was effectively solved in
favor of compliance with the ERL conditions. The Government is now addressing a broader range of trade-
related issues than had been considered at project design, by initiating the implementation of antitrust policy
in line with international best practices as well as taking various WTO-consistent policy measures.
Deregulation
19.   Domestic deregulation aimed to increase total factor productivity and enhance the supply response
to trade reforms by: adopting domestic deregulation measures to increase labor mobility and flexibility and
to reverse the anti-labor bias of the tax regime (para. 22), to free controlled domestic prices (paras. 14-16),
and to free pricing of public services (see privatization and public enterprises reform component). This
component had as its main objective to phase out all price controls existing in the economy before third
tranche release. In addition, limiting the powers of the Price Regulation Office and converting it into a
consumer protection agency were third tranche conditions. Deregulation conditions were met or exceeded
and achievement of objectives was substantial.



7
Tax Reform
20.   Nontrade tax reform was generally consistent with best practice. As in most structural adjustment
operations, the nontrade tax reform component was relatively small and aimed at broadening the tax base
and making the tax system simpler, more efficient, and easier to administer, thus reducing disincentives to
work, invest, and save. The tax reform component did not emphasize tax administration reform.
Achievement of objectives was substantial. There was one condition for Board presentation related to the
tax reform component: legislative approval of a satisfactory Tax Law containing specific measures to reform
the corporate income tax, personal income tax rates, modification of tax brackets, and various measures to
ensure revenue-neutrality of the reforms. The 1991 Tax Law (No. 31) was in effect throughout the duration
of the ERL program, as required under the Loan Agreement. The marginal rate spread of the personal
income tax was narrowed to 4-30 percent in 1992, and the number of tax brackets was reduced from 20 to
11. The range of corporate income tax rates was narrowed from 20-50 percent in 1991, to 30-34 percent in
1994. The 1995 Fiscal Incentives Harmonization Law (No. 28) further reduced distortions and allocative
inefficiencies caused by the tax system. It unified the corporate tax rate at 30 percent, with the exception of
corporations which benefit from import substitution incentives. The 34 percent marginal tax rate on these
entities was to be phased-out pan passu with the gradual elimination of such subsidies. Law 28 also
gradually phased-out most of the tax breaks and subsidies to import-substituting activities, extended to the
entire manufacturing sector the preferential import tariff of 3 percent, and increased the tax rate on traders in
the CFZ to 15 percent. Moreover, it phased-out a generous tax credit for nontraditional exports, and reduced
home mortgage subsidies through more narrow targeting. The tax base was also being expanded through
administrative improvements. To combat evasion, the authorities introduced a program of training and
computerization in the tax-collecting agencies, and presented to the Assembly reforms to the Fiscal Code
and the Customs Law. By maintaining and enforcing the Tax Law throughout the duration of the ERL
program, the Government was in compliance with second and third tranche release conditions in the area of
tax reform.
Labor Market Reform
21.   Over-regulation of hiring and firing practices in Panama's labor market seriously impaired job
creation and mobility. Anecdotal evidence as well as preliminary analysis conducted after loan closing
indicate that labor market reforms are already increasing significantly the employment elasticity of output.2
Achievement of objectives was substantial. Before Board presentation, the Government had already taken
several measures to liberalize labor markets. The Cabinet approved a program to reduce labor costs, which
included reducing the cost of dismissing a worker for economic reasons, allowing firms facing difficult
economic and financial conditions to use workable mechanisms to modify labor constraints, allowing the
operation of private sector employment agencies, and shortening the time permitted for the Ministry of
Labor to process labor regulations. In August 1995, the Assembly overhauled the Labor Code, curbing the
intervention of government in employer-employee relations and giving employers more flexibility to
determine wages, to tailor employment to market conditions, and to reassign employees within the fim. At
the time of project design, wage level containment was identified as crucial to improving Panama's
economy, but it was not made a forial tranche condition. Instead, project designers expected the Bank to
closely monitor wage developments as a major determinant of competitiveness in context of the overall
macroeconomic framework.
External Debt Management and Creditworthiness
22.   Integral to the Government's economic program was a strategy to normalize relations with creditors,
restore Panama's creditworthiness and create a climate conducive to foreign investment. The first tranche of
2 Gonzilez, Jose A. Structural Relation Between Output and Employment/Unemployment: Have Structural Reforms Biased
Growth Against Labor in LAC? World Bank (mimeo), 1997.



8
the ERL (US$60 million) was integral part of a 1992 plan designed by the Panama Support Group (chaired
by the United States) to clear arrears with the IFIs. The ERL subsequently played a critical rolJe in
normalizing relations with commercial creditors through support to the adjustment program and its link to
the DDSR operation. Achievement of objectives was substantial. Fiscal discipline was the key to restoring
Panama's international creditworthiness. The social security reform and trade reformn components were also
critical in restoring Panama's creditworthiness. Social security reform is expected to have a direct and
substantial impact on the sustainability of the government's budgetary situation. Moreover, trade reform is a
powerful determinant of Panama's competitiveness to which its creditworthiness is inextricably linked.
23.   In May 1995, the Government reached an agreement in principle with its Commercial Bank
Advisory Committee to restructure commercial debt of about US$4 billion (including past due interest of
about US$2 billion). In October 1995, the terms sheet for a DDSR operation was issued, and in November
1995, creditors made their final commitments to exchange more than 98 percent of eligible debt for the
DDSR instruments. In 1996, the Executive Directors approved a US$30 million DDSR loan to Panama to
help finance the upfront costs of the operation. Release of the second tranche of the ERL (and thus of the
second tranche of the Japan OECF loan which cofinanced the ERL) was critical to the success of the D:DSR
operation, by augmenting Government resources available to meet the upfront costs of the debt restructuring
operation. The DDSR, also supported by the IDB and IMF, reduced the debt by an amount equivalent to
about 14 percent of GDP; brought future debt service payments into line with the economy's projected debt
service capacity; and shielded future commercial debt service payments from interest rate and exchange rate
risk. During 1996, the Government also eliminated its last remaining external debt arrears (US$308 million)
with Mexico and Venezuela. In January 1997, international risk agencies assigned Panama a sovereign
credit rating of BB+, only slightly below investment grade and only surpassed by two other countries in
Latin America, and assigned an investment grade rating to the private sector. The Assembly also ratified the
ICSID in May 1996, further strengthening guarantees to foreign investors. In addition, Panama became a
full member of MIGA in February 1997.
Social Security Reform
24.   With the creation of SIACAP (para. 29), the CPF-generated deficit will disappear over time. The
Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Social Security Agency (CSS) have signed a satisfactory agreement to
apply the principle of cost separation on a continuous basis. These actions are critical to the sustainability of
the Government's fiscal position. Achievement of objectives in social security reform was substantial.
25.   There were several conditions for Board presentation relating to social security reform. These
included approval of a social security reform law in December 1991, to eliminate the cash deficit of the
social security system through measures such as eliminating early retirement provisions and increasing the
retirement age. In addition, the CSS was granted administrative autonomy and terms of reference had been
agreed with the Bank for the development of an action plan to rationalize the relationship between the MOH
and CSS regarding the provision of health care services. Before Board presentation, the Government had
also agreed on terms of reference for a study to develop an action plan to generate annual savings by
increasing revenues or reducing expenditures, to eliminate the cash deficit of the Complementary Pension
Fund (CPF). In 1993 the Government issued Cabinet Resolution No. 562, which recognized that the CPF
was insolvent, the need to eliminate its cash operational deficit by either liquidating or modifying it, and
authorized the realization of a study that would offer a menu of options for eliminating the deficit. This
study was completed in 1994, and showed that the CPF operational deficit could not be eliminated without
also reforming the special labor laws, unless individual contributions were raised from 9.2 to 17.1 percent of
salary (including social security contributions) and the present inequities of the CPF were maintained. In
1995 the Government and the Bank agreed on an action plan for and initiated the preparation of a General
Public Sector Wage Law that would require and facilitate reform of the special labor laws. In December
1995, the Govermment presented to the Bank a time-bound action plan that would result in the repeal of the
CPF charter law and liquidation of CPF. The draft bill to liquidate CPF was to be prepared with the support



9
of the ERL technical assistance component. At the time of second tranche release, it was expected that the
draft bill to liquidate CPF would have been submitted to the Assembly by June 1996. This solution was
considered more feasible than the alternative of almost doubling social security contributions.
26.   The Government encountered difficulties in meeting CPF-related conditions. This should have
come as no surprise, since the previous adjustment operation (SAL II) had been canceled partly because the
Government did not manage to comply with social security reform conditions. The second tranche condition
on an action plan to eliminate the CPF operational cash deficit and to avoid the re-emergence of operational
deficits for the following ten years, could not be met and the Bank issued a waiver of this condition. In
connection with this waiver, it must be recognized that part of the problem could be attributed to faulty
design of the condition, since the depth of the problems affecting CPF was underestimated.
27.   At the time of second tranche release, the Government was also taking steps to reform other aspects
of the social security system. Agreeing on an action plan to rationalize the provision of integrated health-
care services by MOH and CSS was an additional second tranche condition. The objective was that each
entity pay its respective cost of providing health-care services through a system of cost allocation and
accountings that would avoid cross-subsidization. This condition was met. The plan was based on the 1995
Agreement for the Provision of Health Services between MOH and CSS. With the support of the technical
assistance component of the ERL and of the Pan-American Health Organization, project implementation
began in 1995 with pilot projects in several districts.
28.   In January 1996, the Government submitted to the Assembly a bill to liquidate CPF and create a
private, self-financed pension system. In 1997, the Assembly approved Law No. 8, creating the Saving and
Pension Fund for Public Employees (SIACAP). With the creation of SIACAP, the CPF-generated deficit
will disappear over time. In addition, MOH and CSS agreed to apply the principle of cost separation on a
continuous basis. Implementation of the cost separation plan is being supported by the Bank's Health Sector
Reform Pilot LIL. Third tranche conditions on implementation of the plan to rationalize the provision of
integrated health-care services, and implementation of the plan to liquidate the CPF were met.
Poverty Reduction
29.   Reforms supported by the ERL are a key element of the Government's poverty alleviation strategy.
The major contribution is through reforms that will stimulate growth, reduce the bias against employment
creation, and reduce the high cost of the basic consumption basket. Expanded coverage, lower costs and
more efficient delivery of basic services (transport, water and electricity) is being promoted through
privatization and regulatory reform. Price deregulation and trade reform have already altered the incentive
framework and increased agricultural production and employment opportunities in the countryside, where
most of the poor live. The Government is taking additional steps to protect the most vulnerable through the
Social Emergency Fund, and improve the efficiency and equity of social programs. Achievement of
objectives was substantial.
30.   The ERL included a targeted poverty reduction component. Agreeing  with the Bank on the
objectives of a Nutrition Plan and on the details of its pilot phase, was a second tranche condition.
Implementation of the pilot phase and preparation of a national implementation plan in light of the
experience with the pilot phase were third tranche conditions. All these conditions had already been met at
the time of second tranche release. With support of the technical assistance component of the ERL and Bank
preparation missions for the Rural Health Project, the Government designed and successfully executed the
1993-95 Pilot Nutrition Program-Chiriqui (PNP-C). Project evaluations were carried out in 1994 and
1995, the latter concluding that the project objectives had been satisfactorily met. Based on these results,
the Government requested and obtained support from the Bank to extend the PNP-C's actions to combat and
prevent child malnutrition to the country's 28 poorest districts and two urban slum areas, covering over
three quarters of Panama's poor. This would be achieved through the Rural Health Project. MOH also



10
decided to adopt the PNP-C methodology and norms nationwide, replacing its regular nutrition and health
outreach programs. These actions effectively met third tranche conditions on implementation of the
Nutrition Plan. Joint evaluations by the Bank and the Government as part of implementation of the Rural
Health Project indicate that the Plan is achieving its objectives.
Risks and Project Sustainability
31.   Sustainability of the major ERL objectives is considered very likely, based on: (i) strong
Government commitment and progress in implementation of a second generation of yeforms to consolidate
and deepen ERL achievements (paras. 34-39); (ii) a favorable macroeconomic environment; and (iii)
continuing Bank support through a proposed Public Policy Reform Loan (FY99) and a companion TA Loan
(FY99).
32.   The principal risk identified at this stage is the possible loss of policy reform momentum in the
event the opposition were to win the elections in 1999. A secondary risk to sustainability relates to a
significant worsening of the international economic environment as a result of the ongoing crisis in Asia. A
preliminary analysis indicates that depending on the future turn of events in Asia, the crisis may even benefit
Panama by increasing Canal traffic due to greater exports from Asia, lowering import prices of goods for
consumption and re-export, and increasing demand for Panamanian financial instruments due to the absence
of exchange risk. In any case, following implementation of ERL, Panama is now well positioned to
withstand a shock of this nature.
33.   Measures that the Government intends to take to deepen ERL-supported reforms include: (i)
preparing a legal, financial and economic analysis of the 101 special laws that govern public sector
employment; (ii) revising, as needed, the Civil Service Law; (iii) preparing a General Public Sector Wage
Law; (iv) developing and implementing performance evaluation systems in the public sector and merit-based
salary systems; (v) developing information management systems and databases; and (vi) creating the
Executing Unit for Civil Service Reform.
34.   The second generation of social security reforms will allow a smooth transition from a rather liberal
CSS pension scheme to a sustainable basic protection scheme, addressing perverse distortions in the present
pension formula. The Government strategy consists of gradually phasing-in the required adjustments due to
the political sensitivity of existing entitlement programs, restoring transparency to the pension system and
functionally isolating the pension, health and employment injury schemes to avoid cross-subsidization
among the programs and improve operational efficiency.
35.   Consolidation of long-term fiscal sustainability and an enabling macroeconomic framework require
additional measures to rationalize and broaden the tax system. All services are still exempt from the value
added tax. Building on the achievements of ERL-supported reforms, the Government plans to close a
number of tax loopholes and limit certain tax deductions in the agricultural and tourism sectors. In addition,
the Government intends to complete a comprehensive review of the tax system, and implement additional
tax measures after the May 1999 elections.
36.   The Government is preparing to transfer to the private sector, through privatization or concessions,
the remaining largest state enterprises, including the sugar mill La Victoria, Atlapa Conference Center,
National Casinos, Tocumen International Airport, Francefield Airport, the Panama-Col6n Railroad, IRHE
and IDAAN. After completion of the privatization program, the remaining public entities would comprise
mainly regulatory bodies, such as those dealing with civil aviation, ocean traffic, and reverting areas.
Proceeds from the privatization of public utilities and of assets in the former canal zone will be deposited in
the Development Trust Fund (DTF); the income from the DTF can only be invested in development and
social programs.



11
37.    Trade reform has continued apace following closure of the ERL. In July 1997, the Legislative
Assembly approved the WTO Protocol and associated laws. The Government initiated its second round of
tariff reductions (Cabinet Decree No. 37) lowering the maximum import tariff on construction materials,
vegetable oils, and wheat and wheat products, from 20-50 to 10 percent. Cabinet Decree No. 68 reduced all
other import tariffs to a maximum of 15 percent and consolidated the number of tariff rates, with exceptions
for automobiles, mnilk products and rice. The tariff on rice will be lowered to 30 percent by 2000. On this
basis, Panama would have instituted one of the most open economies in the region within the short span of
twelve months, and would have the lowest average effective protection for agricultural products in Latin
America.3
38.   In several aspects, reforms already undertaken and aimed at deregulation and enhancing competition
in the Panamanian economy have gone beyond those originally supported by the ERL, especially in the areas
of trade and antitrust. The Government has taken bold steps to enhance its competition policy, by creating a
Competition and Consumer Protection Commission to investigate anticompetitive practices, protect
consumer welfare, and deal with antidumping cases, under Law 29 (1996). Law 29 is generally regarded to
be WTO-consistent with regard to trade-related measures, and its antitrust and consumer protection
provisions among the best in Latin America. The Government is also taking steps to reform the
hydrocarbons sector. While port sector reforms and privatization undertaken with the support of the ERL
have already led to a reduction in maritime shipping costs to international levels, a preliminary survey
reveals that the rest of the transport sector is still beset with distortions and regulatory responsibilities are
highly fragmented. The Government has set-up an inter-agency comnnission to propose reforms to the
surface passenger transport law, and is contracting a comprehensive study of surface freight transport to
analyze the causes of distortions and propose remedial actions. Reform in this area would complement the
substantial ERL-supported deregulation.
39.   The Government has contracted a comprehensive study of the foreign investment regime and
institutional framework, with a view to dismantling remaining impediments to foreign direct investment,
rationalizing the legal framework, and consolidating institutional authority for investment promotion and
expediting market entry.  Liberalization of the foreign investment regime would supplement the
liberalization measures already undertaken with support of the ERL.
40.   The Government believes that the financial sector must be modernized in line with international
standards and market innovations to continue to compete internationally. To this end, in cooperation with
the private sector and IDB-Fund assistance, the Government had embarked in the modernization of the
regulatory framework of the financial system, seeking to strengthen bank supervision and allow trading of
new financial instruments, privatizing the Savings Bank, and restructuring the National Mortgage Bank and
the Agricultural Development Bank. Several of these measures were part of the technical assistance
component of the ERL, but were not implemented. Current Government efforts to reform the financial
sector are being supported by the IDB Financial Sector Loan. Current and future IDB-Fund assistance for
financial sector reform are likely to help achieve the financial sector objectives of the ERL.
41.    The Government is also developing a poverty alleviation and human resources development
strategy. This strategy would include the restructuring and decentralization of education, health care and
utilities to improve cost recovery and efficiency, to better target social sector spending, and to expand the
social safety net. The Bank is supporting the formulation of the poverty reduction strategy through a
Poverty Assessment and an IDF Grant. Ongoing and proposed Bank projects in education, health, the safety
nets, rural poverty and land titling will also support the Government's human resource and poverty
alleviation objectives.
3  For additional information on the welfare impact of trade and pricing reforms, see: Lindert, K. et al. Panama Poverty
Assessment Working Paper: Redistributive Impact of Agricultural Trade and Pricing Reforms, World Bank (draft), 1998.



12
Bank Performance
42.   Bank performance is considered satisfactory in project identification, preparation, assistance and
appraisal, and highly satisfactory in project supervision. Preparatory work was extensive. Various
economic and sector studies were undertaken as part of ERL preparation, including on agriculture, social
security finances, tax system, labor deregulation, and public sector finances. Project design also drew on the
work of a February 1991 pre-appraisal, a June 1991 appraisal, and October 1991 and January 1992 post-
appraisal missions. The quality of diagnosis at the early stages of project design was generally satisfactory,
correctly identifying the main sources of fiscal-macroeconomic imbalance as well as the principal
microeconomic links.
43.   Nevertheless, project design had a number of weaknesses. First, the program was too complex and
conditionality too detailed relative to the implementation time frame as well as the Borrower's
implementation capacity. Second, project operational designers correctly identified the risks involved in
project implementation but underestimated the practical difficulties involved in reform requiring legislative
action, failing to consider viable alternatives. Specifically, even before the ERL program was presented to
the Board, it was clear that government efforts to find a national consensus for the reform proposals had
been frustrated. President Endara had asked the Christian Democratic Party to leave the Government in late
March 1991. Since the remaining two-party coalition did not have a congressional majority, legislative
actions linked to the reform program were clearly in jeopardy. With the benefit of hindsight, it can be
argued that project designers underestimated the risk of failure due to the inability of the Government to
obtain legislative approval of ERL-related reforms. Once Panama had improved its short-term external
financing situation, the incentive to push ahead with reforms and thus meet conditionality dissipated. Third,
the viability of eliminating the operational cash deficit of the CPF within a certain time frame was
overestimated. Although second tranche conditions relating to the CPF had to be waived, a better solution
to the problem was found and it was agreed that the CPF would be liquidated.
Technical Assistance
44.   The Government requested technical assistance in the amount of US$1.9 million. The bulk of
technical assistance was designed to help strengthen the Government, particularly MIPPE. Approximately
US$1.6 million of the assistance was expected to finance the services of external experts in
macroeconomic/fiscal policies, public employment reduction, agriculture, customs, social security, nutrition,
procurement, and privatization. US$0.2 million was earmarked for creating public awareness of the need for
introducing reforms. Almost all of these funds were utilized in supporting the design and implementation of
the Government's economic reform program under the Perez Balladares Administration. In connection with
the last closing date extension (from June 30, 1996 to March 31, 1997), the Government requested a
reallocation of funds from the policy component to the technical assistance component in the amount of
US$440,000 to support implementation of the remaining conditions.
45.   ERL design envisaged technical assistance for US$120,000 to finance the services of external
experts who were to provide operational training to the staff of the National Banking Commission, and to
help update the banking regulatory framework. This technical assistance component was not implemented.
Other technical assistance was financed by an IDB concessional loan, to assist the Government to establish a
regulatory framework for telecommunications as part of the program to privatize INTEL. The Bank
monitored technical assistance to privatize INTEL through a Bank-IDB-Government agreement.
Cooperation with the IMF
46.   The Bank worked closely with the IMF in preparing, appraising, and implementing the ERL. The
macroeconomic-fiscal program, particularly the component that would reduce the public wage bill by
reducing public sector employment, was an integral part of the operations of both the Bank and the IMF.



13
Bank staff accompanied IMF missions in July and December 1990, and IMF staff joined the Bank's pre-
appraisal mission in February 1991. A Bank consultant participated in the IMF's standby negotiation
mission in June 1991, which preceded the Bank's own appraisal mission. The Bank's appraisal mission
provided technical support to the IMF for the macroeconomic-fiscal program and the public sector
employment reduction program, as well as the structural reforms that the IMF supported under the SBA and
CCFF agreed at the time. There was close cooperation between the Bank and the Fund throughout ERL
implementation and in connection with the DDSR operation.
Cooperation with the IDB
47.   The Bank appraisal team worked closely with IDB, especially in the area of public sector enterprise
reform. IDB fielded a mission for public enterprise reform at the time of the Bank's pre-appraisal mission in
February 1991. During that mission, the Bank provided support to 1DB on public utility pricing, petroleum
deregulation, and INTEL privatization. The Bank's appraisal mission provided technical support to IDB on
financial projections for IRHE and INTEL privatization, including a program of technical assistance to
privatize INTEL. Cooperation with the IDB continued throughout ERL implementation. For example, the
ERL envisaged undertaking a study on pricing for water, telecommunications and ports, and updating the
electricity long-run marginal cost study. IDB funded these studies. Moreover, there was a tripartite
agreement between the Bank, IDB and the government on coordinating the technical assistance to privatize
INTEL.
Cooperation with USAID and UNDP
48.   Government plans to rationalize the use of resources for health-care services and to reform the CPF,
were to be supported by studies and action plans funded by USAID. In addition, USAID would fund a study
on external debt management. UNDP was expected to fund a study to strengthen the Ministries of Industry
and Commerce and of Agriculture, to enable them to implement reform programs supported by the ERL. In
addition, USAID, UNDP, and IDB were expected to jointly fund a study to evaluate viable options for
financing Canal expansion and maintenance, as well as privatization options. The study would review
issues such as land use and development priorities, environmental protection, and the use of reverted assets.
Cooperation with Japan's OECF
49.   Cooperation between the Bank and OECF as regards tranche releases was close. Upon extensions
of the closing date of the ERL, the relevant documentation was forwarded to OECF, which then took the
necessary steps to extend its own closing date.
Borrower Performance
50.   Borrower performance was satisfactory in project design, appraisal, implementation and covenant
compliance. In assigning a satisfactory rating on implementation and covenant compliance, it must be borne
in mind that there is a clear contrast between the implementation performance of the Endara Administration
(deficient) and the P6rez Balladares Administration (highly satisfactory). The Endara Administration made
efforts to eliminate corruption, established a new police force, undertook a major fiscal adjustment, and
focused on clearing arrears on public domestic debt. However, even before the ERL program was presented
to the Board, it was clear that Government efforts to find a national consensus on the structural reform
program had been frustrated (para.45). Nevertheless, in light of Panama's urgent need for external
financing, the Government decided to push forward with the ERL program. Release of the second tranche
was delayed beyond the original November 1992 target date as a result of the inability of the Endara
Administration to retain sufficient political backing to implement many of the ERL reforms. Following
adoption of a number of measures to get the program back on track, the closing date was extended from
December 31, 1993 to March 31, 1995. In March 1995, the P6rez Balladares Administration proposed an



14
action plan to meet second and third tranche conditions. The closing date was again extended from March
31, 1995 to June 30, 1996. The new Administration successfully implemented the overall adjustment
program supported by the second tranche, and made significant progress in implementing third tranche
reforms. The Government subsequently requested a further extension of the closing date to March 31, 1997,
showing a clear commitment to carrying out outstanding policy reforms. In some cases, the scope and depth
of the public enterprise, tax, labor market, and trade reforms which this Administration has carried out have
gone beyond the actions originally contemplated in the ERL.
Future Operations
51.   The Bank has proposed to back a focused set of public policy reforms with a single tranche
adjustment operation (Public Policy Reform Loan) and to support a wider range of reform activities with a
technical assistance loan. The latter would help build institutions and prepare reforms that would be tackled
after the elections, and that would back the current reform effort. The proposed loans would be follow-on
operations to the ERL and the DDSR Loan. The IMF and the Government have prepared a prograim
supported by the Fund's Extended Fund Facility, over the course of 1997-2000. In addition, IDB is
supporting the reforms through its US$120 million Basic Infrastructure Reform Loan, and US$120 million
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. The Government views these operations as crucial to consolidate and
lock in the gains from ongoing reforms, and to sustain momentum for additional reforms.
Lessons Learned
*     Design of reform programs should aim for simplicity and compactness. Experience indicates that
where there is a need for a reform agenda as broad and complex as the ERL's, it may be preferable to
develop several sequential adjustment operations tailored to a borrower's implementation capacity rather
than one large operation. In any case, the length of the implementation timetable should reasonably match
the breadth and degree of complexity of the reform agenda.
*     The ultimate success of the ERL demonstrates that under certain circumstances, the Bank can justify
the pursuit of a "high risk-high reward" strategy. For example, if no extensions to the closing date had been
granted, a new reformist administration may have lacked Bank support at a crucial stage. Moreover,
assessment of the risk-reward tradeoff must take full account of the cost of implementing alternatives, for
example, initiating a new operation following closure of an unsuccessful one.
*     This operation confirms once again the desirability of local ownership of reform programs being
shared by the government and key groups in civil society. Inplementation of the reforms could have been
accelerated if the initial political support in the Assembly had been maintained under the first
administration, or if the support of a broader range of groups in civil society had been secured from the
beginning.
*     While specificity is essential to avoid ambiguity with respect to adjustment loan conditionalities,
flexibility is also called for. The overall thrust of the program and the degree of fulfillment of its objectives,
should be taken into consideration when judging whether or not the Borrower has substantially complied
with specific loan conditionalities. For example, although a few performance targets specified in the action
plans for the rehabilitation of IRHE and IDAAN had not been met, the Government had nevertheless
substantially complied with second tranche release conditions relating to the action plans, because other
targets were exceeded and the overall thrust of the reforms was on track.
*     The ERL demonstrates once again the desirability of having the passage of satisfactory legislation as
conditions for Board presentation and not as tranche conditions. Legislation passed before Board
presentation (privatization and tax laws) provided a solid foundation to subsequent reforms. By contrast, a



15
law authorizing the restructuring of the telecommunications sector was a second tranche condition; had the
Assembly failed to pass this law in time, release of the second tranche could have been further delayed.
*     Public expenditure reform should be derived from considerations of the appropriate role of
government following a public sector expenditure review, and identification of a systematic set of actions
that would ensure achievement of targets. The ERL specified a rather ambitious public sector employment
reduction program with quantitative targets to be achieved by certain dates. A substantial portion of
employment reduction was expected to result from voluntary retirement and privatization. The high degree
of target specificity did not match the relative crudeness of the mechanisms proposed for achieving those
targets.



16
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
B. Program Sustainability
C. Bank Performance
D. Borrower Performance
E. Assessment of Outcome
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Cumulative Loan Disbursements
Table 5-A:    Key Economic Indicators (new methodology)
Table 5-B:    Key Economic Indicators (original methodology)
Table 7:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:      Bank Resources
Table 9:      Bank Missions



17
Table 1: PANAMA ERL - Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial   Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macroeconomics Policies
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                    ..
hnstitutional Development
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction
Gender Concerns
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development
B. Project Sustainability           Likely                  Unlikely        Uncertain
C. Bank Performance               Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                                   L
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower Performance           Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                                       _ ;
Implementation
Covenant Compliance
[E. Assessment of Outcome         Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory    Deficient
0



18
Table 2: PANAMA ERL - Related Bank Loans
Loan No.                             Purpose                         Year of           Status
approval
Preceding Operations
Structural Adjustment I   Support of Government Program of Policy             1983          Completed
(Loan 23580-PAN)        Reform
Structural Adjustment II  Support of Government Structural Adjustment         1986          Completed
(Loan 27680-PAN)       Program
Following Operations
Rural Health            Strengthening pTnmary health care services and        1995           Ongoing
(Loan 38410-PAN)       rehabilitate rural water supply & sanitation servs.
Education               Improving coverage and quality of basic education     1996           Ongoing
(Loan 39940-PAN)        (preprimary and primaiy).
Debt & Debt Reduction   Accelerate econormic growth by reducing the stock of  1996          Cornpleted
(Loan 39910-PAN)       debt and debt service payments.
Rural Pov. & Natural Res. To channel financial resources to rural communities  1997          Ongoing
(Loan 41580-PAN)       and the conservation of biodiversity areas.
Social Emergency Fund   Support execution of small scale infrastructure and   1997           Ongoing
(I.oan 41910-PAN)      services projects contributing to poverty alleviation
Electricity & Water Sec.  Provide TA to support restructuring and increased   1997           Ongoing
(Loan P3230-PAN)       private participation in the water and power sectors.
Public Policy Reform Adj. Deepen/sustain ERL-supported reforms; and                           Under
and TA Loan            institutional strengthening in policy formulation.                   Preparation.



19
Table 3: PANAMA ERL - Project Thnetable
Steps in project cycle  Date Planned   Date Revised    Date Actual
Identification                Oct-90         Oct-90         Oct-90
Preparation                   Feb-91        Feb-18-91      Feb-18-91
Appraisal                     Jun-91        Jun-20-91      Jun-20-91
Negotiations                 Sep-16-91      Sep-16-91      Sep-16-91
Letter of Development Policy    Sep-20-91   Sep-20-91      Sep-20-91
Board Presentation            Jan-92        Feb-20-92      Feb-20-92
Signing                       Feb-92        Feb-27-92      Feb-27-92
Effectiveness                 Feb-92        Mar-06-92      Mar-06-92
First Tranche Release        Feb-29-92      Mar-06-92      Mar- 11-92
Second Tranche Release       Sep-30-92       Nov-92        Feb-26-96
Third Tranche Release        Jul-31-93      Mar-19-97      Mar-19-97
Project Completion           Dec-31-93      Jun-30-96      Mar-31-97
Loan Closing                 Dec-31-93      Jun-30-96      Mar-31-97



20
Table 4: PANAMA ERL - Cumulative Loan Disbursements
Fiscal  Appraisal Estimate       Actual         Actual as % of     Date of Final
Year         (US$m)             (US$m)             Estimate        Disbursement
FY 92          60.0               60.0               100%
FY 93          86.0               60.3               70%
FY 94          120.0              60.3               50%
FY 95          120.0              61.0               51%
FY 96          120.0              86.8               72%
FY 97          120.0              120.0              100%           April 2, 1997



Table 5-A: PANAMA ERL - Key Economic Indicators
Actual Outcomes measured using new methodology
Forecast in RRP                                                           Actual Outcome*
Estimate                                              Average                                                                   Estimate    Average
a1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995  1990-95            1990     1991    1992   1993    1994    1995    1996            1997   1990-95
Real Growth rates (/)
GDP                                 3.4      4.5      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.5        4.7       8.1       9.4      8.2      5.5      2.9      1.8     2.5        4.4         5.4
Exports of GNFS b                   1.9      7.7      3.4       6.0      6.6      7.0        5.4       18.4     17.1    -11.5    -7.4    -0.3        3.5     4.0        8.1         4.0
CPI Average Inflation (%)              1.1      1.5      1.5      1.5       2.9     2.8         1.9       0.8       1.3      2.0     0.5      1.3      0.9      1.3        1.6         1.2
As % of current GDP
Gross Domestic Investment          16.3      14.2     16.2     17.1     18.2    18.0        16.7       16.8     19.2      19.7    24.1    24.5      26.2     23.6      24.2        22.3
of which, Public Investment       1.3       2.4      4.0      4.0      5.0      4.5        3.5        1.1      3.0       3.1     4.0      3.4      3.4      3.8       4.1         3.3
Gross National Savings              8.3       8.0    10.2      11.1     14.9    14.9        11.2       22.0     16.5      15.4    22.0    24.1      22.8     22.0      22.4        20.9
of which, Public Savings          -1.8    -0.3       1.4      2.3      4.8      5.2        1.9        5.0      5.7       4.6     2.6      3.7      3.5      4.2       3.3         4.1
Current Account Balance c           -8.7    -6.9      -6.8     -6.8     -4.2    -4.0        -6.2        3.9     -3.6      -4.3    -2.2    -0.4    -3.4    -1.6         -3.1         -1.8
Total Debt Outstanding            112.8    107.4    99.4    106.6    100.2    93.3         103.3      129.1    115.2     97.7    96.0    92.2    90.9    80.8          78.4        97.5
a. Estimated year                                                                                   *Sources: i) Office of the Comptroller General and IMF
b. GNFS denotes "Goods and Non-factor Services"                                                               ii) Debt data by DRS.
c. Before Official Capital Grants                                                                             Please note that the Government changed its National Accounts estimates.
Estimates under new and old methodologies are presented (Tables 5-A
and 5-B, respectively)



Table 5-B: PANAMA ERL - Key Econom'ic Indicators
Actual Outcomes measured using original methodology
Forecast in RRP                                                 Actual Outcome*
Estimate                                              Ave-ge                                                           Average
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1990-95           1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1990-95
Real Growth rates (%)
GDP                                  3.4     4.5      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.5         4.7       4.6      9.6      8.5      5.4      4.7      3.5         6.1
Exports of GNFS b                    1.9     7.7      3.4      6.0      6.6      7.0         5.4      10.6      8.6      6.4      3.4    -2.8       3.5         5.0
CPI Average Inflation (%)              1.1      1.5      1.5      1.5      2.9      2.8         1.9       0.8      1.3      1.8      0.5      1.3      0.9         1.1
As % of current GDP
Gross Domestic Investment           16.3    14.2    16.2    17.1       18.2    18.0         16.7      17.1     18.1     22.8    25.0    24.0       23.5        21.8
of which, Public Investment        1.3      2.4      4.0      4.0     5.0      4.5          3.5       1.4     3.4      3.7      3.8      3.5      4.0          3.3
Gross National Savings               8.3     8.0    10.2    11.1    14.9    14.9            11.2      13.3     17.2    18.5    21.8    17.7        17.1        17.6
of which, Public Savings          -1.8    -0.3       1.4      2.3     4.8      5.2          1.9     -2.0      6.0      8.2      6.2      9.7      8.0         6.0
Current Account Balance c           -8.7    -6.9    -6.8    -6.8    -4.2    -4.0             -6.2     -3.9    -0.8      -4.3    -3.1      -6.3     -6.4        -4.1
Total Debt Outstanding             112.8   107.4    99.4   106.6   100.2    93.3           103.3    129.1    115.2    97.7    96.0    92.2         78.4       101.4
a. Estimated year                                                                         *Source:  i) Panama: Dual Economy in Transition (CEM), 1995.
b. GNFS denotes "Goods and Non-factor Services"                                                     ii) ICR DDSR Panama, 1997
c. Before Official Capital Grants                                                                   Please note that the Government changed its National Accounts
estimates. Estimates under new and old methodologies
are presented (Tables 5-A and 5-B, respectively).



23
Table 6: PANAMA ERL - Major Related Studies
Study                            Purpose           Date
Pricing of Telecommunications Services         Public enterprise      Oct. 1991
reform
Pricing of Port Services                       Public enterprise      Mar. 1994
reform
Long-Term Marginal Costs of Providing Electricity   Public enterprise  Aug. 1994
Services                                       reform
Plan Nacional de Nutrici6n                     Poverty reduction     Sept. 1994
La Universalizaci6n de los Incentivos Impositivos    Fiscal reformn   Mar. 1995
Panama: A Dual Economy in Transition, Report No.  Policy formulation  July 1995
13977-PAN, World Bank
Protecci6n Efectiva de los Productos Agropecuarios  Trade reform      Aug. 1995
y su Efecto en los Precios Intemos
La Politica Azucarera y la Privatizaci6n de La  Trade and public      Oct. 1995
Victoria                                       enterprise reform
Analisis del Impacto Fiscal de Largo Plazo de las  Fiscal and civil service  Dec. 1995
Leyes Laborales Especiales                     reform
Proyecto de Ley de Defensa de la Competencia   Domestic competition   Dec. 1995
reform
Proyecto de Ley General de Sueldos             Civil service reform   Jan. 1996
Separaci6n de Costos en el Sistema Integral de Salud  Social security and  April 1996]
_health sector reform         _  I



Table 7: PANAMA ERL - Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                        Description of covenant                  Comments
type      status   fulffillment Fulffillment
date         Date
Loan No.    2.02 (b)       I          C                 _                The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the  Fulfilled
3438-PAN                                                                  Institutional Assistance, maintain  a  special
deposit account in the BNP on terms satisfactory
to the Bank. All deposits and payments of this
account shall be made in accordance with the
Bank's provisions.
2.03        10         CD       Dec-31-93    Mar-31-97    The Loan Closing Date shall be December 31, Fulfilled
1993 or a later date as the Bank shall establish.
3.01 (a)     9           C                                  The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time to  Fulfilled
time, exchange views on the Program and the
actions specified in schedules 4 and 5 of the Loan
Agreement.
3.01 (b)      9          C                                  The Borrower shall provide the Bank a report on  Fulfilled
the Program in such detail as the Bank shall
.________    __________             _reasonably request.
3.02        3           C                                  Procurement of the goods to be financed out of Fulfilled
the proceeds of the Loan shall be govemed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement.
3.04 (a)      1          C                                  The Borrower shall maintain separate accounting  Fulfilled
records of the payments financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
3.04 (b)      1         CD       Mar-31-93    Mar-31-93    The Borrower shall have the accounts and records  Fulfilled
Mar-31-94    Mar-31-97    for each fiscal year audited by independent
Mar-31-94    Mar-31-98    auditors acceptable to the Bank and furnish the
audit to the Bank no later than ninety days after
the end of each such year.



Table 7: PANAMA ERL - Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                       Description of covenant                  Comments
type      status   fulfillment Fulfillment
date         Date
Loan No.    3.04 (c)      1          C                                   For all withdrawais made from the Loan Account, Fulfilled
3438-PAN                                                                 the Borrower shall maintain records and enable
the Bank to examine such records and retain them
until at least 1 year after the Bank has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
made.
4.01 (b)     12          C       Apr-30-92    Apr-30-92    By April 30, 1992, a law providing a framework  Fulfilled
satisfactory to the Bank for the privatization of
publicly owned assets and companies shall have
been enacted by the Borrower.
5.01        12         C                                  The   Borrower's   macroeconomic   policy  Fulfilled
framework is consistent with the objectives of the
Program.
Schedule 4    11          C       Sep-30-92     Dic-31-95    The Public Sector Finances Plan is being  Fulfilled
I                                                        implemented in accordance with its objectives,
actions and targets and the Borrower has
fumished to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, that the Borrower is likely to fully
implement the said Plan.
Schedule 4    11          C       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The Public Investment Plan is being implemented  Fulfilled
2                                                        in accordance with its terms and conditions and
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower is
likely to fully implement the said Plan.
Schedule 4    12         CD        Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95     One or more laws, satisfactory to the Borrower's  Fulfilled
3                                                        Executive Branch and the Bank, have been
passed by the Borrower's Legislative Branch
providing for improved procurement applicable
to Public Sector Enterprises and said procedures
have been put into effect.



Table 7: PANAMA ERL - Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                        Description of covenant                   Comments
type      status   fulfillment Fulfillment
date         Date
Loan No.   Schedule 4     12          C        Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The  PSE  Plan  is being  implemented  in  Fulfilled
3438-PAN        4                                                         accordance with its objectives and targets and the
Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, that the PSE Plan is likely to be fully
implemented.
Schedule 4     12         CD       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The IR-HE and IDAAN Privatization and Action  Fulfilled
5                                                         Plans are being implemented in accordance with
their respective objectives, actions, targets and
timetables.
Schedule 4     12         CD       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The Borrower, IRHE and the Bank have agreed  Fulfilled
6                                                         on terms of reference consistent with the Pricing
Principles for the updating of an existing study on
the long-term marginal costs of providing
electricity services, IRHE has executed such
updating in form and substance satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank, and IRHE has furnished
to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank, based on the results and
recommendations of the aforesaid updating and
the Borrower and Bank's comnments thereon.
Schedule 4    12          CD       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The Borrower, the Bank and APN, and the  Fulfilled
7                                                         Borrower, the Bank and INTEL, have agreed on
terms of reference consistent with the Pricing
Principles for the execution of respective studies
on the pricing of port and telecommunication
services, APN and INTEL have carried out,
respectively, each of the studies in form and
substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank, and APN and INTEL have furnished to the
Bank respective action plans, satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Barb, based on tuhe results and
recommendations of the respective studies and
l______________________l______________________l_________ ____________the Borrower and Bank's comments thereon.



Table 7: PANAMA ERL - Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                       Description of covenant                  Comments
type      status   fulfillment Fulfillment
date         Date
Loan No.   Schedule 4     12         CD       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    A Law, satisfactory to the Borrower's Executive  Fulfilled
3438-PAN        8                                                        Branch and the Bank, has been passed by the
Borrower's   Legislative   Power   granting
authorization   to      restructure    the
telecommunications sector including provisions
pertaining to the provision of certain services by
the private sector and establishment and operation
of a regulatory agency of the Borrower, and the
provisions of said Law have been put into effect.
Schedule 4    12         CD       Sep-30-92     Dic-31-95    The Borrower shall have brought each of the  Fulfilled
9                                                        Selected Enterprises to a position where, under
terms consistent with the Privatization Law or, if
applicable, under other pre-existing laws, tender
documents for the bidding have been issued to
private investors or offers solicited therefrom,
both in respect of the divestiture by the Borrower
of its equity interest in, and of its control (other
than regulatory control) on, the Selected
Enterprise in question.
Schedule 4    12          CP       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The Borrower shall have implemented the APN  Partially waived.
10                                                       Plan in accordance with its objectives, actions and
timetables therefor.                        Objectives were
_________ ___________ __________ ____________     _____________________________________________  substantially met.
Schedule 4    12         CD        Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The Borrower shall have: (a) eliminated: (i) all Fulfilled
11                                                       import duties charged other than on an ad-
valorem basis on the list of products agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank; and (ii) all
price controls on industrial products the import of
which is subject to the provisions of Law 3; (b)
furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that: (i) the minimum duty applicable to any
import not made under the provisions of Law 3
(other than a Tax Exempted Import) is strictly



Table 7: PANAMA ERL - Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                      Description of covenant                 Comments
type      status   fulfillment Fulfillment
date        Date                                   _
Loan No.                                                                enforced and maintained at an ad-valorem rate of
3438-PAN                                                                not less than 5 percent; and (ii) the rate in respect
of import duties effectively charged to imports
made under the provisions of Law 3 is not less
than 3 percent; (c) maintained all previous
reductions of the maximum rate of the import
duty tariff on industrial, agricultural (except for
adjustments in respect of products referred to
below) and agroindustrial products, and adjusted
said rate further to other percentages agreed from
time to time between the Borrower and the Bank
in respect of the following agricultural products:
sorghum, beans, onions, potatoes, corn and
chicken and pork meats; and (d) equalized the
applicable rate of the import duty tariff for each
agricultural product irrespective of whether the
product in question is imported to be used as
input or for consumption.
Schedule 4    12         CD       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The Borrower shall have: (a) maintained all Fulfilled
12                                                      previous eliminations of export restrictions, QRs
and price controls; and (b) further eliminated all
QRs and price controls on the agricultural
products referred to in paragraph 11 (c) above.
Schedule 4    11, 12     CD       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The Privatization Law and the Tax Law, and all Fulfilled
13                                                      regulations thereof issued by the Borrower's
Executive Branch and by other authorities of the
Borrower on terms consistent with each
respective Law after, respectively, the date of its
promulgation and January 28, 1992, have been
maintained in all of their terms or, only in respect
of the said regulations, have been replaced by
l_________ I ___________ [ __________ J            other regulations satisfactory to the Bank.



Table 7: PANAMA ERL - Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                       Description of covenant                  Comments
type      status   fulfillment Fulfillment
date         Date
Loan No.   Schedule 4     11         CD       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The Borrower shall have: (a) furnished to the  Fulfilled
3438-PAN       14                                                        Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to
rationalize the provision of integrated health-care
services by the Borrower's Ministry of Health
and Caja del Seguro Social so as to ensure that
each of said entities pays its respective cost of
providing said services through a system of cost
allocation and accountings that avoids cross-
subsidization between said two entities; and (b)
begun to take substantive action under said plan.
Schedule 4    11         NC       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed on  Fully waived.
15                                                       an action plan to eliminate the operational cash
deficit for calendar year 1993 of the fund  Objectives met through
established by the Borrower in  1975 (and  superior altemative
administered by Caja del Seguro Social) to  mechanisms not
supplement with the proceeds of said fund the  considered at project
payments made by said Caja on its own behalf to  design.
retired public sector employees, and to avoid the
re-emergence of such operational deficit for the
following ten years, and a timetable for said plan.
Schedule 4    11          C       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank  Fulfilled
16                                                       evidence satisfactory  to the Bank that all
provisions of the Tax Law in respect of gradual
reduction of rates, spread and number of tax
brackets and luxury services consumption tax are
being enforced.
Schedule 4    12         CD       Sep-30-92    Dic-31-95    The Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed on  Fulfilled
17                                                       the objectives of the Nutrition Plan and on the
objectives, actions, targets of, and timetables for,
the Pilot Phase of the Nutrition Plan.



Table 7: PANAMA ERL - Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                         Description of covenant                   Comments
type       status   fulfillment Fulfillment
date         Date
Loan No.   Schedule 5      1 1         C       Jul-31-93     Mar- 19-97    The Public  Sector Finances Plan  is being  Fulfilled
3438-PAN        1                                                          implemented in accordance with its objectives,
actions and targets and the Borrower has
furnished to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, that the Borrower is likely to fully
implement the said Plan.
Schedule 5     11          C        Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The Public Investment Plan is being implemented  Fulfilled
2                                                         in accordance with its terms and conditions and
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower is
likely to fully implement the said Plan.
Schedule 5     12          C        Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The  PSE  Plan  is being  implemented  in  Fulfilled
3                                                         accordance with its objectives and targets and the
Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, that the PSE Plan is likely to be fully
implemented.
Schedule 5     12         CD        Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    Implementation  of the  RHUE  and  IDAAN  Fulfilled
4                                                         Privatization  and  Action  Plans  have  been
completed in accordance with their respective
objectives, actions, targets and timetables.
Schedule 5     12         CD        Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The action plans referred to in paragraphs 6 and 7  Fulfilled
5                                                         of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been
implemented in accordance with their objectives,
actions, targets and timetables.
Schedule 5     12         CP        Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The Borrower shall have, in a manner consistent Partially waived.
6                                                         with the Law  put  into effect pursuant to
paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement: (a)  Section (b) complied
established and staffed a regulatory authority in  with soon after release
the telecom-munications sector; and (b) issued  of third tranche.
______   _________    _________   ___________   ___________  tender   documents   for  the    bidding    by    private



Table 7: PANAMA ERL - Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                      Description of covenant                 Comments
type      status   fulfillment Fulfillment
.__                   Idate            Date
investors on the majority of the Borrower's  Objectives were
Loan No.                                                               equity interest in INTEL.                   substantially met.
3438-PAN
Schedule 5    12         CD       Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The Borrower's equity interests in, and control Fulfilled
7                                                       on, at least three Selected Enterprises have been
divested in accordance with the Privatization Law
or other legal provisions satisfactory to the Bank
issued by the Borrower's Executive Branch on or
after the date of promulgation of the privatization
Law and within the framework of the
privatization Law or, if applicable, under other
pre-existing laws; or (b) also in accordance with
the provisions of said Law or pre-existing laws or
of the aforesaid other legal provisions, the
liquidation of ffiree Selected Enterprises have
been determined by the relevant Borrower's
authorities; or (c) any combination thereof have
occurred.
Schedule 5    12         CD       Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The Borrower shall have: (a) extended the  Fulfilled
8                                                       measure under paragraph 11 (a) (i) of Schedule 4
to this Agreement to all imports; (b) furnished to
the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank that:
(i) the minimum duty applicable to any import
not made under the provisions of Law 3 (other
than a Tax Exempted Inport) is strictly enforced
and maintained at an ad-valorem rate of not less
than 5 percent; and (ii) the rate in respect of
import duties effectively charged to imports made
under the provisions of Law 3 is not less than 3
percent; (c) reduced the maximum rate of the
import duty tariff to 40% for industrial products
and to 50% for agroindustrial products,
maintained all previous reductions of said rate for
agricultural products (except for adjustments in



Table 7: PANAMA ERL - Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                         Description of covenant                   Comments
type      status   fulfillment Fulffillment
date         Date
respect of products mentioned below), and
Loan No.                                                                  adjusted such rate to the percentages agreed from
3438-PAN                                                                   time to time between the Borrower and the Bank
for the following agricultural products: beans,
onions, potatoes, tomatoes, com, rice and beef,
pork, and chicken meats; and (d) maintained all
previous elimination of export restrictions, QRs
and price controls and further eliminated all QRs
and price controls on rice and tomatoes.
Schedule 5     11         CD        Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The Borrower shall have limited, in a manner Fulfilled
9                                                         satisfactory to the Bank, the scope and powers of
the Price Regulations Office by converting it into
a Consumer Protection Office.
Schedule 5     11         CD        Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The  Borrower  shall have  completed  the  Fulfilled
10                                                        implementation of the action plan referred to in
paragraph 14 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement in
accordance with its objectives, actions, targets
and timetables therefor.
Schedule 5     12          C        Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The privatization Law and the Tax Law and the  Fulfilled
11                                                         Law put into effect pursuant to paragraph 8 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the regulations
thereof satisfactory to the Bank issued by the
Borrower's Executive Branch and other relevant
authorities of the Borrower on terms consistent
with the said Laws, other regulations satisfactory
to the Bank issued to replace such regulations,
and the other legal provision referred to in
paragraph 7 of this Schedule, have been
maintained with full force and effect in all of their
_ _ _   _ _ _ j _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _  _  _ I   ~~~~~~~~term s.



Table 7: PANAMA ERL - Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                       Description of covenant                  Comments
type      status   fulfillment Fulfillment
date         Date
Loan No.   Schedule 5     12         CD       Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The Borrower shall have implemented the Pilot Fulfilled
3438-PAN       12                                                        Phase of the Nutrition Plan in accordance with
their objectives, and the actions, targets and
timetables for said Pilot Phase, shall have
evaluated its results jointly with the Bank, and
shall have prepared a plan of actions, based on
said evaluation and satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank, for the implementation of the
National Phase of the Nutrition Plan.
Schedule5     11          C        Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The Borrower shall have furmished to the Bank  Fulfilled
13                                                       evidence satisfactory to the Bank that all
provisions of the Tax Law are being enforced in
respect of the aspects referred to in paragraph 16
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Schedule 5    11          C        Jul-31-93    Mar-19-97    The Borrower shall have fumished to the Bank  Fulfilled
14                                                       evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the relevant
actions in the plan referred to in paragraph 15 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in
accordance with the timetable for said plan.



Table 7: PANAMA ERL - Status of Legal Covenants
Present Status:                                         Covenant Types
C   = covenant complied with                             I = Accounts/audits                              8 =  Indigenous people
CD = complied with after delay                          2 = Financial performance / revenue               9 =  Monitoring, review, and reporting
CP  = complied with partially                           3 = Flow and utilization of project funds         10= Project implementation not covered by
NC  = not complied with                                 4 = Counterpart funding                               categories 1-9
NYD = not yet due                                       5 = Management aspects of the project             II = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
or execution agency                               other resources allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                      12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7 = Involuntary resettlement                          regulatory / institutional action
13= Other



35
Table 8: PANAMA ERL - Bank Resources*
Stage of            Planned               Revised               Actual
Project Cycle    Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$
Through Appraisal    N/A       N/A        N/A        N/A        174.1   397,442.00
Appraisal Through   N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A         49.6    107,337.00
Board Approval
Supervision          35.0    103,500.00    40.30    122,000.00    146.6   411,285.00
Completion          N / A      N / A       8.00    30,000.00     8.0     29,900.00
Total      35.0    103,500.00    4831 30   152,0000001  378.3     945,964.00 
*Includes recorded direct cost only.



36
Table 9: PANAMA ERL - Bank Missions
Stage of       Month / Year   Number         Weeks       Specialized staff        Performance Rating:               Types
Project Cycle                    of Persons   in Field   skills represented a/  Implementation    Development    of Problems b
Status          Objectives
Through Appraisal    Feb / 91          6           65.4           1,7,10         Not Applicable    Not Applicable        None
Appraisal through
Board Approval         Jun/91           1          1.1              7            Not Applicable    Not Applicable        None
Supervision
Sep/92          4                         1,2,3,4         Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory       LA, BC
Apr/94          3                          1,3,5          Unsatisfactory      Satisfactory       LA, BC
Mar/95           5          57.3          1,3,5,6,7         Satisfactory      Satisfactory         LA
Jun/96          4                         3,6,7,8          Satisfactory       Satisfactory         LA
Feb/97          6                         3,4,7,8,9           Highly            Highly            None
Satisfactory      Satisfactory
Completion             Oct/97           2           1             2,3,4              Highly            Highly            None
Satisfactory      Satisfactory
a/ Key to Specialized Staff Skills:                                                                 b/ Types of Problems:
1 = Country Officer  6 = Country Analyst                                                               LA = Legislative Approvals
2 = Macro/Fiscal    7 = Sr. Economnist/Task Manager                                                    BC = Borrower Commitmnent
3 = Trade/Agriculture   8 = State Enterprises! Privatization
4 = Social Security  9 = Fiscal Sector
5 = Tax/Customs     10 = Health



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
GOVERNMENT ASSESSMENT OF THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN1
1.    Since the fifties Panama's economy followed an import-substitution model to promote economic
growth. Among the measures adopted to support such model were the setting of high tariffs, import quotas,
price controls, and the promotion of specific sectors through fiscal incentives. Later on, state intervention in
the economy increased through the nationalization of the electricity and telecommunications companies, the
port docks of the Panama Canal, a juice production plant, as well as the construction of a cement plant and
several sugar mills.
2.    When the import-substitution model failed due to the limited size of the domestic market, the
economy entered a phase of sluggish growth. This was the product of several factors, of which the most
important was the inefficiency caused by the existence of market distortions in several sectors of the
economy, as well as the lack of effective policies to encourage competition.
3.    During the eighties, the rate of growth of the economy was low compared to the more favorable
performance of previous decades. Moreover, the burden of debt that the country had to carry during the late
seventies and early eighties, combined with an adverse debt maturity profile (such that much of the debt fell
due over 1985-86), high interest rates, and deteriorating economic performance, led Panama to default on its
debt payments in mid-1987. Since the country did not meet its external obligations, it could not access
financial resources from the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank. Following military action by the United Sates in 1989, the Government of Panama took
steps to revive the economy and declared that it would honor its outstanding financial obligations.
4.    In the early nineties, the main economic problems remained widespread poverty, a highly skewed
income distribution, and high unemployment. Further, there was hardly a connection between the domestic
economy and the external sector, which together with a hike in the prices of basic consumer goods,
aggravated Panama's social ills.
5.    The Economic Recovery Loan (Loan No. 3438-PAN) was signed on February 27, 1992 for an
amount of US$ 120.0 million, consisting of three tranches. The program was designed to: (i) promote a
sustainable economic growth through increasing public investment and efficiency in the private sector as a
result of a commercial and fiscal reform, and (ii) stabilize public finances by reducing state payroll and by
eliminating the deficit of the Pension Fund for Public Employees. The execution of this program was
expected to increase employment opportunities in the private sector, and facilitate external financial flows
and foreign investment.
6.    The Economic Recovery Loan program (ERL) was expected to be completed by the end of the first
quarter of 1993. However, due to delays in the implementation of a number of actions required for
disbursement, the program extended beyond President Endara's Administration, which ended in August 30,
1994. The implementation performance of the Endara Administration was unsatisfactory. The Perez
Balladares Administration completed the program satisfactorily in March 1997.
7.    At the time of the inauguration of the Perez Balladares administration on September 1, 1994, only
the first tranche of the loan had been disbursed, while two tranches remained undisbursed. Examination of
1 This Annex presents an unofficial translation of the Government's Assessment of the Economic
Recovery Loan. The Government evaluation was prepared by MIPPE for its inclusion in this ICR.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
the objectives of the ERL revealed that they were compatible with the economic program of the new
administration, as articulated in the document "Public Policies for Integral Development: Social
Development with Economic Efficiency 1994-1999."
8.    The actions of the current Administration have focused on two key areas of economic and social
policy: structural reform policies and public sector reform. Actions in the first area aim at improving
economic efficiency and resource allocation through: (i) reduction of protection to agriculture and industry,
(ii) harmonization of fiscal incentives, (iii) promotion of market mechanisms, (iv) improvement of
productivity, (v) widening of markets, and (vi) opening up of basic utilities and port services to competition.
Measures in the second area coincide with the fiscal measures and public administration reforms
contemplated in the program agreed with the World Bank.
9.    In the area of trade policy, the ERL had the objective of reducing tariff protection in both industry
and agriculture, establishing an ad valorem tariff range of between 20 and 60 percent. Further, import taxes
would be transformed to ad valorem, abolishing import quotas and price controls. This objective was
achieved through the process of accession to the World Trade Organization, and through unilateral measures
taken by the Government. By March 1997, Panama had progressively achieved the tariff reductions agreed
with the World Bank, and had also implemented other trade and pricing measures.
10.   It is necessary to point out that after completion of the ERL program, the Government reduced tariffs
further, according to five rates starting at 0 percent and up to a ceiling of 15 percent, with only three
exceptions: automobiles, with a maximum tariff of 17 percent, dairy products with 40 percent, and rice with
50 percent. This measure improves the competitiveness of the country and increased openness to world
trade.
11.   In 1995 the Legislative Assembly passed Law 28, known as the Fiscal Incentives Harmonization
Law. This law bans the promotion of sectoral activities through special tax incentives, eliminates
progressively some export incentives, and harmonizes import taxes for raw materials and final goods. This
measure applies to more than 2,000 tariff items.
12.   In February 1996, the Legislative Assembly passed Law 29, known as the Law to Protect: Free
Competition. This measure was not part of the original ERL agreement.. Competition law and tariff
reductions are deemed to be the key to strengthening market mechanisms in the Panamanian economry. In
the administrative area, the law abolished the Price Control Office and created the Competition and
Consumer Affairs Commission. These actions are fully compatible with ERL. Law 29 also laid the
foundation for the elimination of entry barriers in the distribution of food, medicines and agrochemicals.
13.   The promotion of competition in different sectors expanded to public sector enterprises.
Privatizations and concessions were carried out in line with the agreement with the World Bank, in full
compliance with the Privatization Framework Law. During the implementation of the ERL program,
enterprises like Citricos de Chiriqui, Cemento Bayano, and Air Panama were privatized. Ownership of 49
percent of the shares of the state telephone company (INTEL) is now with the private sector. Moreover, in
the telecommunications sector, the Government offered concessions of bands A and B of cellular telephone
services to private investors. As part of the program, the Government privatized the National Port
Authority's services (in Balboa and Crist6bal), the Panama Railroad, and concessions were granted for the
construction of two new ports in the Atlantic shore. The privatization of the state electricity company
(IRHE), which has been divided into eight independent companies is now underway. Concessions are to be
offered for the provision of services currently supplied by the water and sewerage company (IDAAN). A
regulatory and supervisory body, the Regulatory Agency for Public Services, was created to promote
competition.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
14.   In the first half of the present decade, the Government of Panama reached two Stand-by Agreements
with the International Monetary Fund. The first in 1992 in the amount of US$ 186.7 million, and the second
in 1995 in the amount of US$ 122.0 million.
15.   During the execution of the ERL, public sector finances were in balance or surplus. To achieve this
goal the Government kept a strict fiscal discipline through a solid program to restrain public spending. At
the same time, there were negotiations with commercial creditors and there was improvement in Panama's
external debt position.
16.   During this period two important Tax Reforms were enacted (in 1991 and 1995), to achieve greater
efficiency in the system and remove certain tax mechanisms that discouraged employment, investment and
savings. For example, the marginal income tax rate applicable to enterprises was reduced from 50 to 30
percent. Certain subsidies and incentives were reformed giving economic sectors a harmonized treatment.
Similarly, the tariff reduction program to improve competitiveness and reduce domestic prices was
successfully completed.
17.   Regarding public expenditure, policy consists of targeting the social sectors, benefiting principally
the health, education and housing sectors. These areas represented 40 percent of public expenditure in 1996.
It is important to mention the creation of the Development Trust Fund, where the proceeds from the
privatizations and concessions of public assets are on deposit. Interest accrued on assets deposited at the
Development Trust Fund are earmarked for investment in the social area.
18.   Another important aspect was the elimination of the Complementary Pension Fund for public
employees (CPF), which has been replaced by an individual saving system called Private Saving and
Pension Fund for Public Employees (SIACAP). Under this system, financial and actuarial deficits will
eventually be eliminated, thus reducing the burden on public finances.
19.   The introduction of competition in the private economy and in activities handled by the Government
through privatization, lifting of price controls, reduction of tariffs, passing of legislation to promote
competition, and harmonization of benefits among economic agents in a society where a culture of
protectionism prevails, were essential to improving the efficiency of Panama's economy.
20.   The reforms launched by the present Administration went well beyond the original scope of the ERL
program. An example of this pertains to the promotion of competition. Tariff levels were reduced to only 15
percent following closure of the Loan operation, to increase the effectiveness of the removal of price
controls. These measures were implemented in spite of staunch opposition by various economic groups.
Determination and commitment in the decisionmaking process, as well as capacity to rally political support,
were crucial to the implementation of these reforms.
21.   As a result of earlier inability to adopt policy reforms and move away from an exhausted economic
model, and a reluctance to face changes in the world economy, the ERL program had to deal with a wide
range of issues and sectors of the economy whose transformation became absolutely necessary. It is worth
noting that under different circumstances, these reforms could have succeeded with the support of a number
of separate operations dealing with more specific aspects of the reform program. In the Government's view,
the latter strategy would have resulted in more articulate project management and would have facilitated
implementation of the program.
22. Finally, we wish to point out that our assessment of this operation is positive, and that the financing
received has facilitated the adoption of important economic policies that have changed the course of
Panama's economy in the direction of greater competitiveness.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
OECF COMMENTS ON THE ICR
The following comments on an earlier draft of the ICR were received from OECF Tokyo,
forwarded by Mr. Peter Ide, OECF Washington on July 29, 1998. These comments were addressed in
substance in the final version of the ICR.
"As a whole, the Program was highly satisfactory except for the period taken to complete.
Concerning the extension of period, it is mentioned that the reasons for the extension were "design of
reform programs should aim for simplicity and compactness" and "the performance of the Endara
Administration was satisfactory before Board presentation but deficient afterwards." We would like to
have an indepth analysis on which factor has more influence to the extension of the tranche deadline."



