CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 629 VE
Loan Agreement
(Guri Powerhouse Extension Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
C. V. G. ELECTRIFICACION DEL CARONI C. A.
DATED JUNE 30, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 629 VE
Loan Agreement
(Guri Powerhouse Extension Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
C. V. G. ELECTRIFICACION DEL CARONI C. A.
DATED JUNE 30, 1969


﻿IEnan Airgrmet
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1969, between INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank) and C. V. G. ELECTRIFICACION DEL
CARONI C. A. (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated January 31,
1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02, Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) The term " CVG" means Corporacidn Venezolana de
Guayana, a public organismo of the Guarantor created and
existing under Decree Number 430 of December 29, 1960,
of the Guarantor, and owning and controlling substantially
all of the capital stock of the Borrower, or any successor
to CVG.
(b) The term "Prior Loan Agreements" means the Loan
Agreement (Guri Hydroelectric Project) dated September
20, 1963 and the Loan Agreement (Extra-High Voltage
Transmission Project) dated January 26, 1967, both be-
tween the Bank and the Borrower, and the term "Prior
Projects" means the projects provided for therein.
(c) The term "Prior Guarantee Agreements" means the
Guarantee Agreement (Guri Hydroelectric Project) dated


﻿4
September 20, 1963 and the Guarantee Agreement (Extra-
High Voltage Transmission Project), dated January 26,
1967, both between the Guarantor and the Bank.
(d) The term "Borrower " means C. V. G. Electrificaci6n
del Caroni C. A., or any successor thereto, and includes
any subsidiaries of the Borrower and any companies or
businesses owned or effectively controlled by it.
(e) The term " CADAFE " means C.A. de Administra-
ci6n y Fomento El'ctrico, a sociedad andnima created and
existing under the laws of the Guarantor, or any successor
or successors thereto.
(f) The term "Estatutos" means the estatutos of the
Borrower as published in the Gaceta Municipal of the Fed-
eral District of the Guarantor, dated August 2, 1963, with
such amendments as have been made up to the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-one million dollars ($31,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Bank shall open a Loan Account
on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall credit
to such Account the amount of the Loan.
(b) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, the Loan Agree-
ment and in accordance with the Allocation of the Pro-
ceeds of the Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as such Allocation shall be modified from time to
time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by
further agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.


﻿5
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Loan Account such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, as shall be re-
quired to meet payments to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project to be financed under the Loan Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3, of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of six and one-half per cent (61/2o) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each
year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Loan
Agreement to expenditures on the Project described in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(i) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in February 1968, and in accordance


﻿6
with such other procedures supplementary thereto as are
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement or as shall be
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, and (ii) con-
tracts for the procurement of such goods and services shall
be subject to the prior approval of the Bank for the pur-
pose of determining compliance with the foregoing.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively in
carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTION 4.01. If and as the Bank shall from time to time
request, the Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds
representing the principal amount of the Loan as provided
in Article VIII of the Oeneral Conditions.
SECTION 4.02. The Presidente of the Borrower is desig-
nated as authorized representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Conditions. The
Presidente of the Borrower may designate additional or
other authorized representatives by appointment in writing
notified to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineer-
ing, financial and public utility practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 5.02. In order to assist it in the carrying out of
the Project, the Borrower shall, except as the Bank shall


﻿7
otherwise agree, at all times employ competent and experi-
enced consultants acceptable to, and upon terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to, the Bank.
SECTION 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times main-
tain its corporate existence and right to carry on its opera-
tions and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all such rights, powers, privileges, franchises
and concessions as shall be necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall operate and maintain its plants,
equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering and public utility practices.
SECTION 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall at all times man-
age its affairs, plan the future expansion of its power
system and maintain its financial position, all in accordance
with sound business, financial and public utility principles
and practices and under the supervision of experienced and
competent management entrusted with such executive fune-
tions and duties as are established in the Estatutos.
(b) The Borrower shall have its financial statements
(balance sheet and related statement of earnings and ex-
penses) certified annually by an independent accountant or
accounting firm acceptable to the Bank and shall promptly
after their preparation and not later than four months
after the close of the Borrower's fiscal year transmit to the
Bank certified copies of such statements and a signed copy
of the accountant's or accounting firm's report.
SECTION 5.05. Upon request from time to time by the
Bank, the Borrower shall promptly furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank the plans, specifications and work
schedules for the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.


﻿8
SECTION 5.06. (a) The Bank and the Borrower shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and the Borrower
shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the performance by the Borrower of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Borrower and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such in-
formation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, the Project, and the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agree-
ment.
SECTION 5.07. The Borrower shall maintain records ade-
quate to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use thereof in the
Project, to record the progress of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Borrower; and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, all other plants,
sites, works, properties and equipment of the Borrower and
any relevant records and documents.
SECTION 5.08. Subject to the exemptions conferred by
the provisions of Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of the Guarantee


﻿9
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid
all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
or laws in effect in the territories of the Guarantor on or
in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or regis-
tration of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement
or the Bonds, or the payment of principal, interest or other
charges thereunder; provided, however, that the provisions
of this Section shall not apply to taxation of payments
under any Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank
when such Bond is beneficially owned by an individual or
corporate resident of the Guarantor.
SECTION 5.09. Subject to the exemptions conferred by
the provisions of Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of the Guarantee
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all
taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the country or
countries in whose currency the Loan and the Bonds are
payable or laws in effect in the territories of such country
or countries on or in connection with the execution, issue,
delivery or registration of the Loan Agreement, the Guar-
antee Agreement or the Bonds.
SECTION 5.10. (a) The Borrower shall insure or cause to
be insured with good and reputable insurers the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. Such insurance
shall cover such marine, transit and other risks incident to
purchase and importation of the goods into the territories
of the Guarantor and delivery thereof to the site of the
Project, and shall be for such amounts, as shall be con-
sistent with sound commercial practices. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any indemnity under such in-
surance shall be payable in the currency in which the cost
of the goods insured thereunder shall be payable or in a
freely convertible currency.
(b) In addition, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take out and maintain, with good and
reputable insurers, insurance against such risks and in


﻿10
such amounts as shall be consistent with sound public utility
and business practices.
SECTION 5.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not: (a) during the period of construc-
tion of the Project, undertake, or permit to be undertaken
on its behalf, any major expansion project (other than the
Prior Projects and the Project) or make any major addi-
tion to its plants and other property; or (b) thereafter
install in its Guri plant any power generating units other
than those provided for in the Project unless such installa-
tion shall become necessary or advisable in the light of
power sale, forecasts acceptable to the Bank.
SECTION 5.12. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall obtain title to all goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all en-
cumbrances; and (b) the Borrower shall not, without the
consent of the Bank, sell or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets which shall be required for the effi-
cient carrying on of its business and undertaking, including
the Project, unless the Borrower shall first pay or redeem,
or make adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for
payment or redemption of, all of the Loan and the Bonds
which shall then be outstanding and unpaid.
SECTION 5.13. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not, during the years 1969 to 1975, both
inclusive, declare or pay any dividend or make any other
distribution on any of the shares of capital stock of the
Borrower from time to time outstanding other than a
dividend payable in such shares.
SECTION 5.14. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall set and maintain
its rates for the sale of electricity at such levels as may be
necessary to provide in the year 1975 and thereafter, rev-


﻿11
enies sufficient to: (i) cover all operating expenses of the
Borrower, including adequate maintenance and Laxes, if
any, and straight-line depreciation; (ii) meet amortization
payments on debt to the extent not covered by deprecia-
tion; and (iii) produce a rate of return of not less than
8% return on its total net fixed assets in operation. In com-
pating such rate of return, all of the Borrower's operating
expenses, including adequate maintenance, straight-lne de-
preciation and taxes shall be deducted from the Borrower's
total revenues and the resulting net income shall be related
to the realistic value of the mean of the Borrower's total
net fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the
closing of the Borrower's financial year in respect of which
such computation is being made.
(b) The Borrower shall, during the period of construc-
tion of the Project and until the rate of return provided
for in paragraph (a) of this Section is achieved, set and
maintain its rates for the sale of electricity at such levels
as may be necessary, over the period, to finance not less
than 30o of all capital investment of the Borrower from
cash generated internally. "Cash generated internally"
shall be calculated by deducting from the Borrower's rev-
enues from all sources all of its operating expenses, includ-
ing adequate maintenance and taxes, if any, and payments
of amortization of and interest and other charges on all
long-term debt, but without deduction for depreciation, or,
during the period of construction of the Project, for in-
terest and other charges on the Loan.
(c) The Borrower shall, before the beginning of each
financial year of the Borrower, review its rates for the sale
of electricity, with the assistance of consultants when
necessary, in order to determine if the rates then in effect
will be likely to be adequate, during the financial year in
question, to provide such revenues as are required for
compliance by the Borrower with the provisions of para-
graphs (a) and (b) of this Section.


﻿12
SECTION 5.15. The Borrower undertakes that, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created
on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt,
such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the pay-
ment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation of any
such lien express provision will be made to that effect; pro-
vided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this Sec-
tion shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on property,
at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the
payment of the purchase price of such property; (ii) any
lien on commercial goods to secure a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred and to be paid out of the proceeds of sale of
such commercial goods; or (iii) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
SECTION 5.16. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall iot: (i) during the period of con-
struction of the Project incur any debt; and (ii) thereafter
incur any debt unless its net revenues for the fiscal year
next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be not less than 1.4 times the maximum debt
service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all
debt, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not: (i) incur any debt on its own behalf or on
behalf of any other entity for purposes of frequency unifi-
cation; (ii) permit any agency or orga,nismo of the Guar-
antor or any other entity to incur debt or any other obliga-
tion on the Borrower's behalf or for the purposes of the
Borrower's electricity generating, transmission or distribu-
tion operations; or (iii) consent to the contribution of funds
by CVG or the Guarantor to the Borrower's capital (other


﻿13
than debt which would meet the requirements of subsection
(a) of this Section) unless such funds are made available
to the Borrower on terms and conditions whereby such
funds shall constitute, legally and financially, a free and
unconditional equity investment in the capital of the Bor-
rower.
For the purposes of this Section:
1. The term "debt" shall mean all debt except debt in-
curred in the ordinary course of business and maturing by
its terms on demand or less than one year after it is in-
curred;
2. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of the contract or loan agreement
providing for such debt;
3. The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of electricity
rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all
operating and administrative expenses, including provision
for taxes, if any, but before provision covering deprecia-
tion, interest and other charges on debt;
4. The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund
payments, if any), interest and other charges on debt; and
5. Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guar-
antor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
SECTION 5.17. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not directly or indirectly acquire the


﻿14
ownership or effective control of any company or business,
unless such acquisition is made in accordance with a financ-
ing plan satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank; Modifications of
Prior Loan Agreements
SECTION 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth or if any event specified
in Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall con-
tinue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower, the principal
of the Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding, together
with the interest and other charges thereon, shall become
due and payable immediately upon declaration notified by
the Bank to the Borrower during the continuance of such
event, as provided in Section 7.01 of the General Condi-
tions, anything to the contrary in the Loan Agreement or
in the Bonds notwithstanding.
SECTION 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) A substantial amendment of the Estatutos shall have
been made without the agreement of the Bank;
(b) A breach of Article 20 of the Estatutos shall have
been committed;
(c) Funds hereafter made available by CVG or the Guar-
antor to the Borrower's capital (other than debt which
would meet the requirements of subsection (a) of Section
5.16 of this Agreement) shall, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, have been made available on terms and
conditions whereby such funds shall not constitute, legally


﻿15
and financially, free and unconditional equity investments
in the capital of the Borrower;
(d) The Guarantor shall, without the agreement of the
Bank, have modified or terminated or failed to enforce
Clause Eighth of the Exchange Agreement between the
Guarantor and the Central Bank of Venezuela as published
in the Official Gazette of the Guarantor No. 892 of Janu-
ary 18, 1964; and
(e) A default shall have occurred in the performance
of any other covenant or agreement on the part of the
Borrower or the Guarantor under any of the Prior Loan
Agreements, any of the Prior Guarantee Agreements, or
the bonds provided for therein.
SECTION 6.03. For the purposes of the Prior Loan Agree-
ments, paragraphs (c) of Section 5.02 of Loan Regulations
No. 4 of the Bank applicable thereto are hereby amended
to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall have occurred in the performance
of any other covenant or agreement on the part
of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, or the
Bonds, or under the loan agreement dated June 30,
1969, between the Bank and the Borrower, the
guarantee agreement of even date therewith be-
tween the Guarantor and the Bank or the bonds
therein provided for.";
and the term "Loan Regulations" as used for the purposes
of the Prior Loan Agreements shall mean the Loan Regula-
tions No. 4 of the Bank applicable thereto, as modified in
the Prior Loan Agreements and as further amended hereby.
SECTION 6.04. Sections 5.14 of the Prior Loan Agree-
ments shall be amended to read as in Section 5.14 of this
Agreement provided.


﻿16
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 1974,
or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank.
SECTION 7.02. The date of October 1, 1969 is hereby spe-
cified for the purposes of Section 11.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.
For the Borrower:
C.V.G. Electrificaci6n del Caroni C.A.
Ave. La Estancia No. 10
Ciudad Comercial Tamanaco
Caracas, Venezuela
Cable address:
Elcaroni
Caracas
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿17
caused this Loan Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR.
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
C.V.G. ELECTRIFICACION DEL
CARONI C.A.
By /1 RAFAEL ALFONZO RAVARD
Authorized Representative


﻿18
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of the Loan
Amounts Expressed
Category                           in Dollar Equivalent
1. Civil engineering works, including
penstock, gates, and erection of unit
4 and embedded parts of units 5-10     $15,800,000
2. Unit 4 turbine/generator, and em-
bedded parts for units 5-10               8,300,000
3. Unit 4 transformer and switchgear        1,000,000
4. Engineering services                     2,200,000
5. Unallocated                              3,700,000
Total                              $31,000,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of goods and services in-
cluded in Categories 1, 2, 3 or 4 shall decrease, the amount
of the Loan then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such goods and services will be reallocated by the Bank
to Category 5 (Unallocated).
2. If the estimate of the cost of goods and services in-
cluded in Categories 1, 2, 3 or 4 shall increase, an amount
equal to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan will be allocated by the
Bank, at the request of the Borrower, to any such Cate-
gory from Category 5, (Unallocated), subject, however, to
the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Bank, in respect of the cost of the goods and services in
the other Categories.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                (expressed in dollars) *
June 15, 1974                       595,000
December 15, 1974                   615,000
June 15, 1975                       635,000
December 15, 1975                   655,000
June 15, 1976                       675,000
December 15, 1976                   695,000
June 15, 1977                       720,000
December 15, 1977                   745,000
June 15, 1978                       770,000
December 15, 1978                   795,000
June 15, 1979                       820,000
December 15, 1979                   845,000
June 15, 1980                       870,000
December 15, 1980                   900,000
June 15, 1981                       930,000
December 15, 1981                   960,000
June 15, 1982                       990,000
December 15, 1982                  1,025,000
June 15, 1983                      1,055,000
December 15, 1983                  1,090,000
June 15, 1984                      1,125,000
December 15, 1984                  1,165,000
June 15, 1985                      1,200,000
December 15, 1985                  1,240,000
June 15, 1986                      1,280,000
December 15, 1986                  1,320,000
June 15, 1987                      1,365,000
December 15, 1987                  1,410,000
June 15, 1988                      1,455,000
December 15, 1988                  1,505,000
June 15, 1989                      1,550,000
* To the extent that any part of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿20
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any part
of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section
3.05(b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption of
any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption    Premium
Not more than three years before
maturity .......................3% of 1%
More than three years but not more
than six years before maturity ...... .1 %
More than six years but not more than
eleven years before maturity ....... ..  3/4%
More than eleven years but not more
than sixteen years before maturity . . .  41/2%
More than sixteen years but not more
than eighteen years before maturity . . 51/2%
More than eighteen years before
maturity  .......................     61/%


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Description of the Project
The Project consists of: (a) extension of the existing
Guri powerhouse to its full 10-unit capacity; (b) installa-
tion of the fourth power generating unit; and (c) installa-
tion of embedded parts for units 5 through 10, inclusive.
The principal works involved are:
I. Extension of the powerhouse structure from its
existing 3-unIt size to its final 10-unit size, complete
to receive the power generating units as required.
II. Installation of the complete fourth power generating
unit, including turbine, governor, valves; generator;
transformer; electrical, mechanical, and hydraulic
auxiliaries.
III. Installation of turbine scroll cases and draft tubes,
and generator stator frames for units 5 through 10,
inclusive.
The Project is expected to be completed by mid-1973.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Supplementary Procedures for Procurement
I. With respect to any contract involving an amount of
$100,000 equivalent or more, the following procedures shall
apply:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall submit
to the Bank for approval the invitations to bid, speci-
fications and all other tender documents, together
with a description of advertising procedures. If pre-
qualification is to be used, before the qualification in-
formation is invited, the Borrower shall submit to
the Bank for approval the procedures for such pre-
qualification.
(b) After bids have been received and analyzed, the bid
analysis and recommendation for contract award,
together with the reasons for such recommendation,
will be submitted by the Borrower to the Bank for
approval prior to the contract award or the issuance
of a letter of intent.
(c) If the proposed final contract differs substantially
from the terms and conditions contained in the docu-
ments previously approved by the Bank, the text of
the proposed changes will be submitted to the Bank
for its review and approval.
(d) As soon as a contract is signed, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a certified copy of such contract.
II. With respect to any contract inv-'lving an amount be-
low $100,000 equivalent, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank the documents referred to in Paragraph I above as
soon as such contract is signed and prior to submission to
the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect thereof.


