                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 33497

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                    (PPFB-P1950 PPFB-P1951 CPL-38070 SCL-3807A SCPD-3807S)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$29.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND

                                                FOR THE

                          SWAZILAND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                             October 4, 2005




Water and Urban 1
South Africa, BLNS Country Department
Africa Regional Office



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2005)

                           Currency Unit = Swaziland Lilangeni (pl Emalangeni)
                                  SZL 1 = US$ 0.17
                                  US$ 1 = 6.16

                                FISCAL YEAR
                              April 1   March 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
EIRR         Economic Internal Rate of Return
EOP          End of Project
GOS          Government of Swaziland
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICMA         International City/City Managers' Association
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MBCC         Mbabane City Council
MHUD         Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
MZCC         Manzini City Council
NPV          Net Present Value
O&M          Operations and Maintenance
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PDO          Project Development Objective
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PSC          Project Steering Committee
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SBS          Swaziland Building Society
SEA          Swaziland Environmental Authority
SEB          Swaziland Electricity Board
SNL          Swazi Nation Land
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
SWSC         Swaziland Water Services Corporation
TA           Technical Assistance
TSU          Technical Services Unit




                         Vice President:   Gobind T. Nankani
                       Country Director    Ritva S.Reinikka
                        Sector Manager     Jaime Biderman
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     David DeGroot

                                         SWAZILAND
                            Swaziland Urban Development Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 41
Annex 9. Changes to Project Components (Loan Allocations)                        56
Annex 10. Key Performance Indicators of Implementing Agencies Over Time          57
Annex 11. Municipal Plants and Equipment Procured under SUDP                     59
Annex 12. SWSC Tariff Requests vs. Approvals                                     60
Annex 13. Cost of Sewage Treatment Plants                                        61
Annex 14. Institutional Strengthening Activities                                 62
Annex 15. Subsidiary Loan Repayments                                             64

MAP IBRD No. 33491

Project ID: P002669                                                  Project Name: Swaziland Urban Development Project
Team Leader: David G. DeGroot                                        TL Unit: AFTU1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 4, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Swaziland Urban Development Project                      L/C/TF Number: PPFB-P1950;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P1951; CPL-38070;
                                                                                                     SCL-3807A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3807S
   Country/Department: SWAZILAND                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (70%); Roads
                            and highways (14%); Central government administration (11%);
                            Sub-national government administration (4%); Power (1%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Other urban development
                            (P); Land administration and management (P); Municipal
                            governance and institution building (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/02/1986                                     Effective:                           01/23/1996
     Appraisal: 06/29/1993                                         MTR:                             05/10/2000
      Approval: 11/15/1994                                      Closing: 03/12/2002                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT./Government of Swaziland/ Ministry of Housing and Urban Development;
                                           Swaziland Water Services Corporation; Swaziland National Housing Board;
                                           Mbabane City Council; Manzini City Council
                      Other Partners:      UNDP, DFID (formerly ODA)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Ritva S. Reinikka                              Stephen Denning
Sector Manager:                 Jaime M. Biderman                              Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader at ICR:             David DeGroot                                  Cecile Ramsay
ICR Primary Author:             Colleen Butcher


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S

                    Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

Project at Risk at Any Time Rated 'Yes' because of Age of project and Country Risks

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project was conceived as representing the first phase of a long-term urban development program aimed
at increasing the delivery and effectiveness of urban management services and improving living conditions
of low income urban households. Its original Project Development Objective (PDO) in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) was twofold. It was:

        (a) to provide a basis for sustainable urban development through emphasis on policy reform,
        institutional development, pilot land reform, participatory development, and housing solutions for
        moderate and low income urban households; and
        (b) to address critical infrastructure needs (water, sanitation, waste disposal and roads).

The PDO was further elaborated in the Loan Agreement where it was stated that the project's main aims
were:

        (a) to continue efforts undertaken during project preparation to improve the sectoral policy
        framework;
        (b) to increase the long-term effectiveness and efficiency of key sectoral institutions, particularly in
        the areas of financial management and operations and maintenance, as well as build the
        implementation capacity of executing agencies and other sectoral support institutions; and
        (c) to address critical infrastructure needs in the major urban centers of Mbabane and Manzini by:
        (i) reducing the current overload on sewerage facilities, and enhancing the level of sewage
        treatment; and (ii) upgrading on-site infrastructure (roads, footpaths, drainage, water supply,
        sanitation, and communal structures) for approximately 5,000 informal urban housing sites.

Assessment of DO

The Project DOs were clearly defined and reflected country priorities both at the time of appraisal and in
subsequent years. As there was no Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Swaziland, the project
responded to both key GOS priorities and to the 1993 Public Expenditure Review which had identified
poor physical infrastructure and a shortage of skilled manpower in the public sector, as constraining
private sector growth. Given the low volume of prior Bank lending to the country, the project judiciously
limited its geographic scope to the two main cities, Mbabane and Manzini, and avoided establishing new
delivery agencies by working with existing institutions. It incorporated lessons learned from previously
implemented relevant UNDP and water projects, specifically, to provide for greater managerial autonomy
of the Water and Sewerage Board (later to become the SWSC), and to place more emphasis on cost
recovery and improved internal efficiencies of the implementing agencies. It also incorporated Bank
experience from relevant urban sector projects in the region.

The project preparation process was lengthy and comprehensive and the eventually approved project
design was substantially scaled back from its original scope as a result of these initial feasibility
assessments. Project design included a number of risk mitigation strategies. Emphasis was placed on
matching phased improvements in institutional capacity building in the IAs to the rate of physical
investments to be made and ensuring processes for close participation and involvement of settlement



                                                      - 2 -

 upgrading beneficiaries throughout project preparation and implementation. A number of institutional
 strengthening measures were put in place, including contracting in TA to the PCU and IAs, establishing
 implementation units in each of the IAs and establishing an inter-agency Project Steering Committee
 (PSC) which reported to an inter-Ministerial grouping (Project Coordinating Group) with the specific aim
 of routinely monitoring project activities and coordinating the various agencies.

Notwithstanding these strengths, the lack of experience in the Swazi civil service, especially in the (then)
newly established MHUD, and the lack of previous experience within Swaziland with Bank projects and
operational procedures and guidelines, the project set high objectives from the outset. Inherently,
sustainable service delivery, involving as it did under the project, four main implementing agencies as well
as a number of other support agencies of the central government, ran the risk of being overly complex. The
timing and implementation of various sub-components, each implemented by different agencies, was to be a
source of ongoing difficulty throughout the life of the project, as will be discussed in later sections.
However, in spite of the project's structural challenges, the DOs were still largely achieved.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of four original base components as follows:

    1. Policy and institutional reform component (US$4.2 million, 10% of the original total project cost
         of US$51.5 million).

         The component comprised two sub-components:

         ·    Policy development and review of legislation. Assist MHUD in addressing policy issues
              critical in the near term to the success of the project components and in the longer term, to
              achieving a well functioning urban sector.
         ·    Institutional support and development. Increase the long term effectiveness and efficiency of
              sector institutions, in particular financial management, O&M capacity and project
              implementation capacity of IAs and other supporting institutions.

    2. Rehabilitation and expansion of city roads component including the relocation of power-lines
         and development of solid waste facilities (US$9.3 million, 21%of the original total project cost of
         US$51.5 million).

         To address the lack of past investments in the municipal sector, this component aimed (i) to
         rehabilitate existing city roads; (ii) to provide new access to solid waste sites and housing
         settlements to be upgraded under the project; (iii) to develop new solid waste sites and provide
         vehicles and equipment to improve operations and maintenance.

    3. Rehabilitation and expansion of water and sewerage services component (US$19.1 million,
         43% of the original total project cost of US$51.5 million).

         The component was aimed at addressing a backlog of investment needs in water supply and
         sewerage systems in both cities. At the start of the project, waste loads to existing sewage
         treatment works in the cities were ten times higher than the design capacities of the existing works
         which were small pond systems that had been built during the colonial era. The overload resulted



                                                        - 3 -

         in major environmental and public health problems from the inadequately treated effluent being
         disposed into waterways. Also, the water supply network was in need of rehabilitation and a leak
         detection study urgently required. Both water and sewer networks needed to be expanded to
         accommodate new city growth, in particular the sites to be upgraded under the project.

     4. Residential housing sites and on-site infrastructure component (US$7.6 million, 15% of the
         original total project cost of US$51.5 million). As half of the population of Mbabane and Manzini
         lived in informal, poorly serviced areas, the component was aimed at upgrading on-site
         infrastructure (roads, footpaths, drainage, water supply, sanitation, wash points, refuse collection
         points, street lighting and landscaping) for 5,000 informal urban housing plots in five locales. To
         the extent possible, upgrading would accommodate the existing settlements and, through
         adjustment of service standards, ensure that plot costs would be affordable to existing households
         in the areas.

3.4 Revised Components:
Although the components were not formally revised, a number of Loan amendments were made during the
life of the project. Two extensions to the Loan closing date and two reallocations of funds between
categories were approved. The table in Annex 9 sets out the value of each of the original components as
supported by the IBRD Loan, the formal reallocation of funds and the de facto changes made within the
last six months of the project as the final contracts were completed. No components were added to or
eliminated from the project but changes were made to the funding split between components and therefore
to the emphasis of support at different phases of the project.

At the start of the project, the major portion of project finances (70%) was dedicated to infrastructure and
associated municipal equipment investments ­ rehabilitation and expansion of citywide roads, water,
sewerage and solid waste facilities, upgrading of services in informal areas. This emphasis reflected the
fact that these facilities had lacked significant investment since colonial times and were severely
overloaded. The remaining components were aimed at supporting GOS to develop key policy and
institutional reforms and for direct project implementation. During the course of project implementation,
the infrastructure components were increased to 81% of the total Loan costs in response to the Borrower's
requirement (based on community reactions) that the technical design of the Sewage Treatment Plants
(STPs) be more sophisticated than originally designed.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
(Moderately Satisfactory)
As the project was prepared in 1993, there was no quality at entry review at the time. The following is
based on a retrospective evaluation of the QAE.

The project's Quality at Entry had a number of positive attributes. The Project DOs and components were
clearly defined and even though the Bank had no approved CAS in place, the DOs met GOS' development
priorities as articulated at the time, as noted above. In addition, the SUDP design was informed by the
outcomes of a related UNDP-funded project of 1987 and also took into consideration a number of
diagnostic studies carried out during project preparation as well as the lessons of a previous Bank
supported water and sewerage project (1974). The project design also sought to incorporate Bank lessons
learned from urban sector projects in the region.

The project also had a specific component aimed at upgrading informal settlements with resources provided
for large scale participatory design and implementation activities by the communities. An important,
explicit requirement of the project was that any involuntary resettlement costs, as a result of infrastructure



                                                        - 4 -

construction or site upgrading, would be subject to the Bank's involuntary resettlement and compensation
policies and GOS would bear the costs of compensation. Finally, the project design was prudent in limiting
the geographic scope to the two cities of Mbabane and Manzini and it avoided establishing any new
agencies for implementation.

However, the quality at entry is not rated fully Satisfactory for two important reasons. Firstly, the project
activities itemized under each component compounded by the long list of agencies involved in the project
were unrealistically ambitious and complex, particularly given the low institutional base on which the
project was commencing. It was this structural complexity, more than any other factor, that was behind the
slow start up of the project (14 months between project approval and effectiveness), slow implementation
(two extensions amounting to an eventual nine year project life), and the disjointed pace of implementation
between agencies throughout the life of the project, despite the inputs to strengthen the participating
institutions.

Secondly, at the time of project entry, the Bank had a wealth of international experience in informal
settlement upgrading -- experience that was only partially taken into account during project design. The
documented international experience at the time, ultimately always led to the same conclusion regarding
upgrading -- that whilst there were a number of successes that could be pointed to, settlement upgrading
was an inherently complex process and "... considerable delays [could be expected to occur] ... in the
provision of ... services" (Keare and Parris, 1982, p.vii). A second important international lesson had been
that whilst projects could be successfully designed to be affordable (even down to the 20th income
percentile), full cost recovery from households in upgrading projects -- and thus ultimate sustainability if
government subsidy was to be avoided and replicability assured, was almost universally problematic, not
so much because of non-affordability of the housing and services but due to lack of political will on the
part of implementing agencies and governments to enforce payments (Keare and Parris, 1982). As part of
project preparation, substantial activities took place to engage the local communities in testing the
feasibility of unit costs, willingness to pay for improvements and similar. However, during the hiatus
between these early activities and actual implementation, many of these participatory gains were lost.

Project design for the site specific upgrading component (albeit only 15% of the total project costs) was far
too complex, involving as it did, a plethora of service provision agencies to deliver a broad range of
services, new and unproven tenure arrangements on Swazi Nation Land, involuntary resettlement and
untested private sector housing finance to `take out' the primary developer (at that time, SNHB).

Compounding the complexity, SNHB, primarily responsible for the upgrading component, was already
committed for the next five years on housing projects over and above the SUDP and projects that were, in
financial terms, three times the size of the UDP itself (at Zakhele (Two Sticks), Helemisi, Makololkholo,
Sterkstroom, Embangweni Phase IV, Mangozeni, Sidwashini and Piggs Peak (John Burrow/Euroconsult,
1994). This raised the large (and unaddressed) risk in project design that the cash flow position if not
overall financial viability of the Board would come under extreme pressure, as would the staff of the
agency, who were expected to cope with the new workload under the project. Furthermore, the Industrial
Housing Company (IHC), predecessor to the SNHB, previously had undertaken a number of upgrading
attempts in Swaziland (for example, at Sidwashini) -- but none of them had been successful. While the
SUDP project design set out to prove the ability of residents in upgrading areas to pay for services, it did
not adequately address their willingness to pay. The precedent set by IHC's prior upgrading attempts
should have alerted project designers that the upgrading component faced significant risks. This is not to
say that upgrading should not have been attempted under the project. What it does point to, is that the
service provision activities should have been down-sized to three or four achievable objectives and SNHB
clearly identified as only an interim implementing agency (see section 8, Lessons Learned).


                                                      - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall Rating - Satisfactory

The overall outcome of the project is rated as Satisfactory because:
    (i)    Notwithstanding the ambitious scope of the objectives and the complexity of the project's design,
           all but one of the objectives have been met in full with a second being met in part and on-going
           by the Borrower;
    (ii)   the objectives were and remain relevant to the Borrower's development priorities;
    (iii) the investments made on the whole are sustainable with both the central government and the
           sub-national agencies making annual budgetary provisions for maintenance of the investments
           made and setting tariff and user fees close to operating expenses (although some user fees are
           subsidized);
    (iv)   All investments other than the water and solid waste investments had acceptable EIRRs (see
           Annex 3). In the case of water supply and the solid waste site, substantial environmental and
           public health benefits have accrued; and,
    (v)    The major objective of institutional strengthening and policy reform has been met, as measured
           by values over the last three years of the project's key performance indicators (see Annex 1).

The SAR for the project did not assign specific priorities to the objectives, so the following assessment is
based on equal weight being given to all the objectives.

Objective: To provide a basis for sustainable urban development through emphasis on policy reform,
institutional development, pilot land reform, participatory development, and housing solutions for
moderate and low income urban households.

The rating for achievement of the policy and pilot land reform and housing solutions sub-component of
the objective is Highly Satisfactory.

During project preparation and in the early years of the project, a large number of key policy studies were
undertaken and, in the main, subsequently adopted by the Borrower. Finance for all of the studies was
primarily from GOS' own resources -- a measure of the Borrower's substantial commitment towards
assessing and adapting its policy framework (the exact amount of Government contribution exceeded the
figures captured through the Project accounts (see Annex 2) as the Borrower also paid for additional
related studies from other cost centers in its budget). Throughout the life of the project, even with the
extended closing dates, the early momentum as reflected in the above studies was maintained, all aimed at
strengthening the policy framework and in better defining the relations between central and local
governments, with later studies being financed through the Loan.

Among the many important achievements are:

    1. The introduction of 99-year leaseholds over Swazi Nation (communal title) Land, first in the
         project specific upgrading areas and subsequently in other peri-urban areas in the country. The
         legally registered leaseholds, not only resulted in convertible tenure (restricted to Swazi citizens),
         but also, most importantly:
    2. Establishment of ownership of urban land by women headed households for the first time in the


                                                      - 6 -

         Kingdom's history.
    3. The Environmental Management Act became law in 2002, and, through the review procedures
         established under the SUDP, the introduction and mainstreaming of environmental management
         and use of comprehensive mitigation plans into the implementing agencies.
    4. In the final year of the project, all Town and City councils in Swaziland came together in a "Local
         Government Responses to HIV/AIDs" initiative and are in the process of developing Action
         Plans which map out appropriate responses to the impact of HIV/AIDs on their constituent
         communities.
    5. Revision of the Rating Act is ongoing, providing local governments with greater powers of
         foreclosure (leading, in part, to significant improvements in rates collections, see below and Annex
         1) and making provision for the central government to pay rates (property taxes) to the local
         governments ­ a measure that the central government has been honoring since 1996.
    6. A series of initiatives focused on Municipal Finance bringing together local governments, private
         sector financial institutions including the Swaziland Stock Exchange, the Reserve Bank and the
         central Ministries to identify the options for private sector involvement in financing of municipal
         infrastructure.
    7. As a follow on, the two City Councils and the SWSC voluntarily underwent commercial credit
         rating, the results of which were incorporated by the agencies into their strategic planning and
         budgeting frameworks.
    8. The Cabinet adopted the recommendations of an intergovernmental fiscal transfer study
         which introduced the first phase of a transparent, formula-derived intergovernmental fiscal transfer
         system aimed at underpinning the fiscal health of local governments.

Finally, although the objective of servicing and upgrading 5,000 residential plots was not fully achieved
(see discussion below), well defined procedures for working with communities in a participatory manner in
the design and planning of the upgrading areas were successfully implemented (Msunduza and Nkwalini)
and a Resettlement Policy was formulated and adopted. The case of Msunduza upgrading was written up
and disseminated through the World Bank's Civis as an international best practice in community
participation. All four implementing agencies hired fulltime Community Liaison Officers onto their staff.
Supporting the achievements of the urban upgrading processes, a Regional Trust Funded study was
undertaken on Institutional Options for Upgrading in Peri-Urban Areas to determine requirements for
sustainable informal settlement upgrading within both local government and traditional leadership
frameworks.

The rating for achievement of the institutional development sub-component of the objective is
Satisfactory.

There have been measurable increases in effectiveness and efficiency of the key sectoral institutions, as
evidenced by the values of the key performance indicators as compared between the start and end of the
project (see Annexes 1 and 9). Key examples include:

    9. At the start of the project, the cities were collecting only 65% of their billed rates (property taxes)
         from land owners. By the end of the project collection efficiency had risen to 80%, reflecting the
         improved capacity of the revenue collectors, supervisors, and billing and finance staff as well as
         the revisions of the Rating Act which resulted in central government paying due rates.
    10. The improved financial performance of SWSC is shown in that the Corporation had a net loss per
         annum of E20 million in the base year 1993 but by 2004 SWSC had a net surplus of E1.653
         million, as a result of an expansion to operations and customer base as well as improved billing



                                                        - 7 -

         and revenue collection systems.
    11. Related to this, SWSC's percentage of unaccounted for water dropped from 47% at the start of
         the project to 28% by EOP.
    12. Increases in efficiency were matched by staffing effectiveness ­ at the start of the project, the
         SWSC operated with 53 staff per 1,000 connections, by the end of the project the number had
         dropped to 18 per 1,000 connections.
    13. As a further measure of increased efficiency, the four main IAs had independently audited financial
         accounts carried out on an annual basis throughout the life of the project. Audits were submitted
         to the Bank on time each year with few major management notes from the auditors.
    14. Human Resources Reviews with associated restructuring were carried out in both City
         Councils and under the project, specific training and technical assistance also was provided to
         MHUD, the Registrar of Deeds, the Surveyor General's Office and the Swaziland Environmental
         Authority (see Annex 13).
    15. All cadastral records of the country have been imaged and doc-banked and the key agencies
         are well-equipped with state of the art hardware and software to respond to cadastre registration
         needs.

Objective: To address critical infrastructure needs (water, sanitation, waste disposal and roads) in the
major urban centers of Mbabane and Manzini

The rating for achievement of the critical infrastructure objective is Satisfactory.

Sixty four percent (US$28.4 million) of the total project costs as designed were used to support the
rehabilitation and extension of citywide infrastructure and procurement of municipal equipment for
operations and maintenance in Mbabane and Manzini. All contracts under these components were
completed by the end of the project, save for two which were funded under different sources.

By 2001, all roads, water and landfill contracts in Mbabane and Manzini had been completed. This
included the construction of three new roads, two roads maintenance contracts, two citywide water
upgrading contracts and the construction of a landfill (solid waste) site. In the final four years of the
project, all remaining contracts were completed, i.e. further water supply works in Mbabane including a
new water treatment plant, sewerage reticulation in both cities and a leachate treatment facility in
Mbabane, resulting in significant improvements in terms of road access and water supply reliability and
quality being evident in both cities.

After lengthy delays, in part due to the complete re-design to a higher technical standard than envisaged at
appraisal and in part due to community resistance to the original siting of the works, two large sewage
treatment plants were commissioned in Mbabane and Manzini in February 2005 and March 2005
respectively. It is variously estimated that the plants will only reach their peak capacities in the next 20-25
years. The effluent standards at the plants are of a very high quality and comply with the stringent SEA
requirements of 10mg/l BOD.

Both cities also procured municipal equipment through five separate contracts to strengthen their
operations and maintenance departments (see Annex 11).

As a result of the investments made, the backlog in critical infrastructure in the two cities has been
addressed and will be sufficient for the next decade or more. Monitoring indicators to measure the outcome
of achievement of the objectives are shown in Annex 1. From the indicators, it can be seen that there have



                                                      - 8 -

been quantifiable and sustained improvements in the sanitary conditions and accessibility in both cities, for
example:

    ·    Expand water and sewerage network: In the 1993 base year there were 16,466 metered water
         connections and 4,028 sewerage connections in the two cities. By the end of the project the
         connections had risen to 28,007 water and 6,721 sewerage connections, an increase of 70% and
         67% respectively.
    ·    Improve quality of road network: In 1993, 139 km (64 paved + 75 unpaved) of road in Mbabane
         and 122 km (41 paved + 81 unpaved) in Manzini were being maintained annually. By the end of
         the Project, the Cities reported that this had increased to 165.6km in Mbabane and 131.6km in
         Manzini.
    ·    Improve solid waste collection: In the case of the cities, in 1993 a combined total of 138 tons
         per month solid waste was being collected and by the end of the project this had increased by
         a factor of 8, to a combined total of 1,080 tons per month. In the base year 1993, whereas only
         46% of the Mbabane urban area was covered by solid waste collection, by the end of the project
         this had increased to 80% and 85% in the case of Manzini.

Objective: To ... upgrade on-site infrastructure (roads, footpaths, drainage, water supply, sanitation,
and communal structures) for approximately 5,000 informal urban housing sites.

The rating for achievement of the upgrading of informal settlements objective is rated as Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

 Although the specific objective of delivering 5,000 upgraded residential plots was not achieved by EOP, in
the latter stages of the project, implementation momentum had been gained and commitments made in the
Borrower's 2005/06 national budget to provide on-going own-resources to the IA to continue with the
upgrading in the remaining three areas (2,500 sites are now being upgraded in Mbabane, with funding
from own and national sources, and planning is underway--supported by a Bank-managed Cities
Alliance grant--for upgrading of all 7,000+ remaining informal sites in that city). In addition, many of
the community liaison functions associated with participatory upgrading have been mainstreamed within
the Councils ­ each Council now employs full time Community Liaison Officers and has adopted plot
pricing simulation models. Of particular importance too, is that women headed households are now eligible
for 99-year leaseholds approved in their own names for the first time (prior to this, they were treated as
minors and unable to hold title to Swazi Nation Land). However, it must be noted that cost recovery in the
upgraded areas continues to be problematic.

Thus whilst the physical outcomes of delivery are being achieved, albeit at a rate slower than originally
planned, full cost recovery, and therefore assured long term sustainability in the absence of explicit
government subsidy, has not yet been achieved (it must be noted that in a recent 25 year
review--principally authored by Robert Buckley--of Bank experience with housing and upgrading, the
principle of "full" cost recovery is critically reviewed and the importance of indirect and direct subsidies is
acknowledged, contrary to Bank policy at the time of SUDP design in the early-90s).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Of the 32 project contract packages, all were completed save the two which were separately funded and the
three upgrading and associated small works packages which are on-going. By August 2005, 99.98% of the
Loan had been disbursed.




                                                       - 9 -

1. Policy and institutional reform component (US$4.2 million SAR; US$3.94 million actual): Rating:
    Satisfactory.

The policy reforms sub-component is rated as Highly Satisfactory.

The policy reform agenda under the project was extremely ambitious, all the more so given the strongly
conservative traditional customs of the country, the dearth of bilateral programs which might have
complemented the SUDP Loan and the low institutional base on which the project started. GOS itself
financed the shortfalls and a set of broad ranging and fundamental reforms were achieved with support
from the project. Importantly, through the introduction of 99 year leasehold over Swazi Nation Land,
women headed households are permitted, for the first time, to have security of tenure in their own right.
Also of importance, the Project set out to and did alleviate environmental degradation in urban and
peri-urban areas by the construction of roads and associated storm water drainage. Environmental planning
and assessment has been mainstreamed into the design of facilities and, where inevitably there was impact
from the construction works undertaken, environmental comprehensive mitigation plans have been
introduced for all significant developments to minimize and control the impacts. During the course of the
project, an Environmental Management Act and the Environmental Audit Assessment and Review
Regulations (2000) were passed.

Important reforms also have been achieved in defining the parameters of central-local government
relations and setting a sustainable framework for the municipal sector. At the start of the project, there
were no elected local governments in Swaziland ­ mayors and councilors were appointed by the Minister
and local elections were held for the first time in 1994. Under the project, the Physical Planning Act was
revamped, an Urban and Peri-Urban Land Management Study with recommendations was concluded and
subsequently, a comprehensive study of all peri-urban areas and growth points in the country was carried
out and recommendations made and agreed upon for working with traditional and community-based
institutions in the areas to provide services and development control. The Ratings Act was reviewed and
continues to be under discussion between local governments and the central ministries, the first phase of an
inter-governmental fiscal transfer policy was designed and is under implementation and, in an effort to
improve market credit-worthiness, and three sub-nationals underwent an independent credit-rating exercise.
Finally, local governments are explicitly grappling with HIV/AIDs and how it affects their constituents and
operations and are developing coordinated response plans to this challenge.

However, in spite of the major policy reforms undertaken by the central government in Swaziland,
centralized controls are still strong. For example, tariff and user fee increases need central government
approval and frequently the approvals are only given late in the financial year and do not reflect the
forecasted financial needs of the agencies (see Annex 11). This tends to undermine the autonomy of the
sub-nationals and in turn, removes the burden of accountability from their operations. The sub-nationals
do not operate under hard budget constraints and therefore have not made particularly strong efforts to, for
example, recover costs of development through plot sales (SNHB) or keep contract cost overruns under
tight control (SWSC). However, the project DO recognized that institutional strengthening is a long term
process; the outcome of the project component dealing with this aspect is that Swaziland's central and local
governments still require further efforts in this area but tangible progress has been made in the first phase
of reforms.

The institutional reform sub-component is rated as Satisfactory.

On one level, the majority of planned outputs under the project were met. Staff in all IAs and the central



                                                      - 10 -

government (including the PCU) participated in on-going training activities, much of it short term skills
upgrading, responding to particular project implementation needs as they arose. The training activities and
institutional restructuring generally has resulted in measurably more efficient and effective sub-national
agencies as shown by the performance indicators, although implementation performance over the life of the
project was variable but satisfactory in the final year.

2. Rehabilitation and expansion of citywide roads component including the relocation of power-lines
and development of solid waste facilities (US$9.3 million SAR; US$8.9 million actual). Rating:
Satisfactory

As a result of the works under the project, traffic congestion has been eased in some parts of the cities,
better access has been provided to the informal, lower income housing areas and erosion caused by poor
drainage adjacent to the roads has been halted. In addition, comprehensive road inventories and initial
maintenance programs/schedules were prepared and costed for both cities. The maintenance programs
were supported by five contracts under which municipal plant and equipment was procured. The
availability of vehicles and equipment significantly improved in the two Cities, thus allowing for periodic
routine maintenance.

Under the component, a well designed solid waste site was constructed in Mbabane and the old, polluted
site which was located close to a housing area was decommissioned. Collection and compacting equipment
was procured and technical assistance provided to municipal staff to support the operating of the site.
Solid waste collection efficiencies in both cities improved notably over the life of the project as a result. In
Mbabane, where the new solid waste site was constructed, disposal of citywide waste nearly doubled, from
4,396 tons in 2000 (prior to the commissioning of the solid waste site) to 7,980 tons by 2005.
Furthermore, of the total tonnage disposed of in 2004, 20 percent came from low income residential areas
which historically had not been covered by collection services and a further 16 percent from City Council
sweepers, responsible for cleanliness of the general public environment of the city.

3. Rehabilitation and expansion of water and sewerage services component (US$19.1 million SAR;
   US$39.3 million actual).
Overall Rating: Satisfactory.

The outcome of the project's water sub-component is rated Satisfactory.
The physical targets have been achieved. The project's output target was to supply 1,400 megaliters per
annum (70% over the 1994 levels) of potable water in the two cities. By 1997, production had reached
12,864 megaliters and in the single month of March 2005 alone, production was 1,364 megaliters.
Alongside the increased volumes of water, reliability of supplies also improved and is still undergoing
further improvements as a result of pro-active unaccounted for water improvements. Finally, the overall
quality of water delivered in the system at EOP has improved as a result of the investments made. Water
turbidity within the system (after storage) measures an average 0.98NTU, within the target of <1NTU.
The PH averages 6.5 to 7.2, within the allowed range of 6.5 to 8.5 and free chlorine is between 0.1 and 0.3
ppm, also within the limit of 0.3 ppm.

The combination of improved system operational efficiencies, reliability and quality of water, have been of
significant social benefit to the residents of Mbabane and Manzini.

The outcome of the sewerage sub-component is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory
Physically, the project has achieved the planned outcomes. For example, at the individual household level,



                                                      - 11 -

the outputs of increased number of sewerage connections has increased significantly ­ in 1993, there were
4,028 connections and by EOP, connections had increased to 6,721 in number, of which 300 are in
upgraded informal settlement areas. Also, at the citywide level, the two new sewage treatment plants have
been commissioned and operations have been handed over to SWSC in March and May 2005. Whereas in
1994, sewage treatment capacity was able to cope with less than 25% of demand, by March 2005 the new
plants are able to meet current demand in both cities and have spare capacity for an estimated further 15
-20 years.

However, in spite of this, the sewerage sub-component has been rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory
because of (i) the enormous increase in cost of the two STPs from SAR to EOP which put tremendous
strain on both the cash position and longer term financial viability of the SWSC; and iii) the as yet untested
ability by SWSC to operate the plants which are highly mechanized in design. Based on preliminary
engineering design solutions and costs at the time, the SAR (1994) estimated the combined cost of the two
STP contracts as US$15.704 million (E59.594 million). By the time the plants were completed and all
final payments made, their combined cost will be US$30.8 million (E223.3 million (civil works only)) -- a
240% increase in costs as estimated at appraisal, even though the cost overruns and change orders during
the course of the two large contracts were contained within 10% of the original E contract value as
substantially reduced by an initial change order (VO1).

The significant increase in costs of the two STPs was the result of a number of factors, including:
     (i) Delays in finding large sites to accommodate the works in the face of strong community resistance
           (20% increase);
     (ii) In the face of ongoing community opposition to the works on their land, the Borrower took a
           politically based decision to change the treatment process at both sites from the low technology
           ponds and filters to technically sophisticated sedimentation tanks, filters and anaerobic sludge
           digesters and the outfalls were changed from gravity mains to pressure mains, with a pre-treatment
           works at the head of the sewer in each case (180% increase);
     (iii) The exchange rate at the time of bid opening (i.e. the rate applied in the contracts) was US$1:
           E9.9133. However, by EOP, the local currency (emalangeni) had strengthened to a rate of US$1:
           E6.16, thus compounding the costs of the two plants in US$ terms by 38%, even though the E
           contract price was unchanged. As a result, the proportion of the loan to the overall cost of the two
           contracts was reduced. This resulted in GOS having to fund the proportionally increased
           remaining balance, which it agreed to do.

Although the final construction costs of the two plants considerably exceeded the funds available from the
Loan, the Borrower explicitly decided to continue with construction and undertook to bridge the financial
difference (see Annex 12). SWSC has developed and adopted a detailed Financial Action Plan to address
its increased debt service responsibilities, and to date, it has met these commitments, including a 13% tariff
increase when inflation was 3.7% in 2004 and subsequently a 6.5% increase when inflation was 4.1% in
2005. However, as at EOP, the cost-sharing burden of the investments had not yet been finally agreed
between the central government and SWSC. Therefore, the long term servicing of the debt remains
uncertain. Furthermore, ultimately, the plants were designed to a highly mechanized standard, not in
keeping with existing operations of SWSC. Therefore, SWSC operations staff will require significant
training and on-going mentoring to ensure that the plants are adequately operated and maintained. In light
of these two risks, despite achieving its physical objectives, the sub-component has been rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory.




                                                       - 12 -

4. Residential housing sites and on-site infrastructure component (US$7.6 million SAR; US$9.81
million actual)
Overall Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The upgrading component was slow in implementation (only 50% of the plots had been serviced by EOP)
but by the latter years of the project, the procedures for upgrading have become mainstreamed into the
regular operations of the two cities, which is a significant achievement. Also, limited feedback from
residents indicates that the upgrading has had a positive effect on their lives (availability of potable water,
solid waste collection, high-mast tower lights for improved nighttime security, improved road and footpath
access and formal security of tenure). Overall, the component has had noteworthy poverty impact by
improving health, hygiene and general living conditions for target communities in the low income parts of
the city.

However, the component has faced a number of difficulties which had not been resolved by EOP. Firstly,
in the upgrading areas, no improved pit latrines have been constructed, due to an unwillingness to accept
the low technology option by the implementing agency (SNHB) -- ( SNHB officials claim that the improved
latrines have not been constructed because of community resistance to them, and to not increase plot
costs any further and thus maintain affordability levels. However, de facto, Msunduza residents already
make use of unimproved latrines on their plots. The project offered to upgrade the latrines to make them
structurally safer and to contain odors and fly nuisance). Three years after the area upgrading contract
was completed, only a pilot project has commenced to construct the first 25 toilets out of a total 1,704
needed. Secondly, plot sales have been very slow ­ by EOP, only 11% of plots serviced had been fully
paid for and transferred. Thirdly, over and above the Bank's `do no harm' principle regarding involuntary
resettlement within the upgrading areas, the project also liberally recognized the succession rights in
Swaziland -- providing for the allocation of plots to `qualifying' residents including primary heads of
households, secondary heads of households, adult offspring (irrespective of gender), and tenants. Whilst
GOS has borne full responsibility for resettlement compensation payments, in the case of Msunduza,
payments finally made (in fact, payments continue to be made in May 2005, even though the
infrastructure construction contract was completed in June 2002) were considerably more than the
resettlement plan agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and almost double the infrastructure
investments made. For these reasons, the precariousness of the long term financial sustainability of the
component has undermined the physical gains made and so the component is rated a Moderately
Unsuccessful.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As part of project appraisal, an economic analysis was carried out on the proposed project investments.
The SAR stated that "the weighted average ERR was 27% for 55% of total project costs". However, the
detailed calculations are not available in either the Bank or Borrower's files. Therefore, a comparable ex
post economic analysis, following strictly the same approach as in the original appraisal, could not be
undertaken. In its place, standard economic internal rate of return (EIRR) calculations were done on a
cross section of investments (one from each of the different project components). The calculations made
use of actual investment costs and real maintenance and income values.

The detailed assumptions made and analysis of the results, are presented in Annex 3. In summary, all
investments, other than the water and solid waste investments, had acceptable EIRRs. In the case of
water supply and the solid waste site, substantial environmental and public health benefits have
accrued although it was not possible to quantify them in the present analysis.




                                                      - 13 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact (IDI) was Substantial in some areas, Modest in others,
and was Modest overall.

IDI was Substantial at the central level, where significant, far-reaching changes were achieved in the
policy framework, both because of the nature of the changes and in terms of providing the foundations for
long-term sustainability of sub-national operations. The policy dialogue and adoption of reforms that took
place during the course of the project embraced international best-practices and far-reaching reforms of
previously obdurate issues such as accessibility to land by women, more predictable financing of municipal
investments including the payment by central government of property taxes to the cities, mainstreaming of
environmental management and similar.

IDI also was Substantial with respect to the implementing agencies' achievement of performance targets
(see Annexes 1 and 10). Internal efficiencies such as improved rates/debtors collection ratios and periods,
availability of vehicles and equipment, reduction of unaccounted for water losses have all been achieved
and sustained over the last three years of the project. The Project also was instrumental in improving
financial management capacity in the IAs through the disciplines of cost recovery analysis, financial
planning and timely, independent financial auditing. In some cases, required capacity was supplemented by
technical assistance which the IAs favored for on-the-job training and skills transfer. In addition, all of the
four main IAs have taken up many of the Bank procedures instilled under the project into their everyday
systems, for example, procurement methods (it is also interesting to note that in terms of the Loan
agreement, the procurement was subject to the Bank's 1981 procurement for consultants Guidelines.
However, all agencies voluntarily adjusted their procurement to match the Bank's more demanding
Guidelines produced in 1995 and as subsequently revised) and involuntary resettlement principles.

However, in key operating areas, IDI was Modest, particularly resource mobilization, where, despite
improvements, the IAs on the whole remain under-resourced, in some cases not being able to fully cover
operational costs of services (e.g. solid waste collection and management, road maintenance and water
supplies). They also continue to be challenged to service long term debt associated with capital investments
(for example, incurred on the upgrading areas) and remain dependent on periodic negotiations to raise
supplementary revenues from the central government. To an extent this is due to the lack of depth of the
resource base of the agencies but in instances too, it is due to a reluctance to take `hard' political decisions,
reinforced by the central government not insisting on hard budget constraints and in some instances, by
political interventions from the central level.

Decentralization and the empowering of sub-national agencies is a long term process. Significant steps in
the right direction have been achieved in Swaziland to date, but more remains to be done in the future.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    ·    Swaziland is part of the Southern Africa Customs Union. As such, its economy is tied in to and
         strongly affected by the economy of the Union's largest partner, South Africa and subject to
         regional exchange rate instability (from E3.6: US$1 at the start of the project, to E10: US$1 in
         2003, to E6.2: US$1 at EOP) and, particularly in the early years, relatively high inflation (average
         of 8.7% from 1995 through 1998). The combined effects resulted in cost overruns on contracts
         already underway and increased local costs on contracts still to start, estimated to be a cumulative
         60% by MTR. Unfortunately, too, the highest period of volatility in the US dollar was during the



                                                     - 14 -

       time when the two sewage treatment plants, accounting for 49% of the project's total investments,
       were being constructed. It is calculated that the devaluation of the US dollar against the local
       currency between the time that the construction contracts were signed and completed, resulted in a
       40% increase in the US dollar equivalent cost of the contracts for the Borrower (i.e. in the amount
       that would have been needed to be drawn down from the US dollar denominated Loan).

   ·   Some of the decisions taken by the government and local agencies through the life of the project
       could not be implemented or were implemented very late, as a result of traditional considerations,
       including the on-going rejection by the communities of sewage treatment plant sites and ultimately,
       outright rejection of the use of maturation ponds which had to be substituted by extremely costly
       sludge digesters and filters. Also, the refusal by the residents for many years of Moneni, Manzini
       to participate in the formal government upgrading exercise. In consequence, contracts were
       delayed in commencing or during implementation, resulting in cost overruns and claims. Secondly,
       the coordination between components was not achieved, making it difficult for the agencies (SWSC
       in particular,) to meet some performance targets, in particular revenue streams that were linked to
       being able to increase customer bases as new areas were serviced.

   ·   Procurement for contracts which commenced early on in the project was accomplished with
       relatively short lead times ­ the project operated under the 1981 Selection of Consultants
       Guidelines which were a step shorter than subsequently amended versions, and the Bank's Task
       Team Leader at the time was procurement proficient and so able to provide no objections on
       missions in the field. Subsequently, the government agreed to adopt the revised Guidelines (it was
       under no legal compunction to do so but wanted to benefit from the improved procedures) and
       subsequent TTLs were no longer procurement proficient. As a result, bid documents had to be sent
       to Washington for review and procurement decisions were sometimes the cause of delay. As
       technologies improved, the Borrower was able to submit documents electronically and this served
       to overcome some of the delays that had been previously experienced.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    ·  The government chose not to make use of the special account under the project, preferring instead
       to forward finance expenditures directly and then claim reimbursement of eligible expenditures at a
       later date. The internal procedures for reimbursement were complex and slow and as a result, long
       delays were experienced and ultimately impacted on the Borrower's cash flow ­ at its worst, there
       was an internal bottling of eligible expenditures in an amount of US$1.7 million over a 12 month
       period. However, the Borrower was able to improve on its internal procedures to reduce (but not
       eliminate) the delays and agreed to adopt the direct payments method (Bank direct to contractor)
       for the two remaining large contracts. As a result, the Loan was fully disbursed by project closing.

    ·  At the start of the project, a set of Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) was signed between the
       central government and the four main implementing agencies, setting out the amounts, terms and
       conditions of Loan proceeds that would be passed on to the individual agencies as either grant or
       credit (see Annex 14). During the long life of the project, a number of changes occurred in the
       project which impacted in a number of ways on the IAs, for example, making it difficult for them
       to finalize five year financial plans, including debt service arrangements. Recognizing the changes
       that had occurred, the PCU proactively introduced de facto (and largely accurate) changes to the
       loan repayment schedules required of the individual agencies. However, until the SLAs are
       formally amended, the changes have no legal backing.




                                                     - 15 -

    ·   The Borrower and IAs fully accepted the Bank's involuntary resettlement guidelines and
        procedures and implemented them, even in upgrading areas being fully financed by the Borrower
        itself. The project audited financial statements and the Project Steering Committee, routinely
        monitor the compensation procedures and global amounts. However, over time, the total amount
        of compensation claims and payments greatly escalated in comparison with either the original
        resettlement plans submitted to the Bank for `no objection' and with the total investment costs.
        (For example, in the case of Msunduza, final resettlement payments, including a significant 28% in
        valuers' fees, were 70 times more than originally reviewed by the Bank and nearly double the
        infrastructure investments made. This very lenient approach to compensation not only unduly
        escalates the development costs of upgrading (and the financial burden to be borne by the
        government) but also sets a difficult precedent with regard to other areas that are to be upgraded in
        the future.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    ·   Implementation performance varied during the life of the project. Slow implementation was
        reflected in the very slow rate of disbursement. For example, by March 2000 50% of the Loan
        should have been disbursed against an actual of only 27%. Due to the slow decision making
        procedures in some of the agencies, some contracts had to be dropped as they would not have been
        completed before project closing (e.g. the two additional roads contracts in Manzini) and some
        contracts have still not been undertaken even after project closing and with the Borrowers financial
        support (e.g. the Mobhodleni and Moneni upgrading packages). Ultimately, these IP issues did not
        negate the achievement of the Project's DOs but will be a consideration in the design of future
        projects.

    ·   As the IAs do not operate under hard budget constraints and are not being penalized for not
        servicing their loans under the project in accordance with agreed schedules, the rate of plot sales in
        the upgraded areas has been slow. The result is that the central government is bearing the costs
        and risks of bridge financing the investments for lengthy periods. In addition, plot sales prices are
        not indexed to inflation or borrowing rates and so households making late payments are effectively
        paying less for their plots than those that paid in full early on ­ an inequality that is not lost on the
        communities.

    ·   Post-procurement contract management within some of the IAs was not sufficiently rigorous. As a
        result, in the case of Msunduza upgrading for example, a consolidation of change orders were
        issued without prior review by the Bank. This was not pedantry on the part of the Bank. On some
        of the contracts, agencies issued change orders without Bank prior review which subsequently were
        found to have been inaccurately costed and financially detrimental to the agency. The Borrower
        was notified of these and other deficiencies in the IAs and it contracted in engineering and financial
        controller TA to assist the IAs and performance once again improved in the last 18 months of the
        project, once again without compromising the final achievement of the DOs.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The detailed project costs by component and financing source, comparing the situation at appraisal and
EOP, are shown in tables in Annex 2.

In summary, at appraisal (1994), the project cost was estimated at $51.5 million equivalent. Of the total
cost, $29 million (56%) was to be financed by the IBRD loan, $21.3 million (41%) by the Borrower and
the sub-national implementing agencies and $1.2 million (2%) by co-financiers. Shortly after EOP (August
2005), the total project cost had increased to $63.4 million. Of the total cost, the Bank had financed



                                                     - 16 -

$28.99 million (99.98% of the Loan) or 45% of the final total costs. Co-financiers had only financed $0.6
million or 1% of the project and GOS and the sub-nationals had financed the remaining 54%, an amount of
$34.1 million equivalent.

As noted in sections above, some of the cost increases were due to delays in implementation, although
ultimately, the costs of the delays were offset by the overall 58% devaluation of the local currency from the
start to the end of the project. The two components that exceeded the appraisal estimates, and were
responsible for the increase in the total project cost, were the residential upgrading component and the
sewage sub-component of the water and sewerage rehabilitation and expansion component.

In the case of the residential upgrading, there were two main reasons behind the increase in costs. Firstly,
the compensation claims paid by the Borrower at EOP in only one of the five upgrading areas (Msunduza)
amounted to $3.8 million, double the SAR estimate for all five areas. Although it is the Borrower's
discretion to pay more than the policy calls for if it wishes to do so, ultimately, this made the cost of
upgrading economically non-viable from the public authorities' point of view (see the results of the EIRR
for the component) and sets an expensive precedent to follow in subsequent upgrading attempts.

The second cause of the increase in costs of the upgrading component was due to the introduction of a
higher level of services to be provided than originally planned, based on a combination of engineering
considerations and the expressed concerns of some beneficiaries, although no formal ex post beneficiary
survey has been carried out in Msunduza and therefore it is not known if they are justifiable or not. The
resultant plot sales prices will have to be doubled which will negatively impact on the rate of sales, unless
the central government agrees to provide a form of subsidy to the upgraded area ­ which it is unlikely to
do.

By far the largest increase in cost over the project appraisal estimates was in the sewerage sub-component
which, as has been shown in the sections above, came about as a result of changed environmental standards
after the project was negotiated, coupled with strong community resistance to the lower technology
anaerobic ponds which were perceived to be unsanitary and odorous. In order to accommodate this
community resistance and to persuade local traditional leaders to allocate land for the construction of the
plants, SWSC was under pressure to design the plants to a much higher and more costly technical standard,
resulting in an increase of $3.5 million. A further cause of the cost increase in US dollar terms was the
volatility of the dollar during the time of the STPs contracts resulting in an effective increase of
approximately $6.2 million against the Loan.

Given the large increase in costs and the financial impact this would have on the SWSC's financial
position, the Bank had recommended to the Borrower at the time that the bids were received, that GOS only
proceed with one of the two plants and defer construction of the second plant to a later date when the debt
on the first plant had been repaid. However, taking into account political considerations of proceeding in
one city and not the other, the recommendation was rejected and GOS agreed to finance the shortfall
between the final costs and the amount available under the loan.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The rating for Sustainability is Likely.

The sustainability rating is based on an assessment of the probability that the achievements generated by
the project can be maintained.



                                                      - 17 -

The Borrower has undertaken and adopted a number of policy studies and reforms through the project.
Cabinet approval has been given to issues such as the payment by central government of property taxes to
the local governments, the introduction of the first phase of a predictable intergovernmental fiscal transfer
system and His Majesty's introduction of the use of 99-year leaseholds over SNL in areas outside of the
project towns. The main IAs are making use of environmental comprehensive mitigation plans, more
rigorous and transparent procurement methods and accountable financial reporting. These and other
adopted reforms bode well for the institutional gains made under the project.

The second consideration is whether community resistance to working with formally constituted
sub-national agencies will not serve to undermine on-going attempts by the Borrower to continue to
incorporate peri-urban areas into municipal boundaries and provide services. There is some likelihood that
there will be a `trickle down' effect from the improved areas and that over time, more and more residents
will request (and be willing to pay for) the visible benefits of upgrading (in particular, improved access,
potable water and security lighting). Upgrading is now accepted as a legitimate function of city councils
and part of their on-going operations with funding channeled through central government loans. Therefore,
in spite of the long time it has taken to complete only half of the upgrading component, it is likely that the
principles and procedures guiding upgrading will continue to be undertaken.

Finally, a consideration is whether the responsible agencies have adequate human and financial resources
available and dedicated towards operations and maintenance of the physical investments made. As the
majority of physical investments (save for the two STPs and associated works) were completed two years
before project closing, it is possible to realistically assess this likelihood. The conclusion is not equivocal.
The agencies are all explicitly maintaining their investments through annual budgetary provision but
generally, maintenance does not receive the full support that is required. This is not to say that the project
investments are being operated or maintained at levels lower than those found on other facilities built
outside the project. What it points to, rather, is an on-going lack of funding at sub-national level although
significant improvements were registered under the project. To the extent that agencies are able to raise
tariffs to cover costs, they are attempting to do so (notably SWSC), but long term, predictable and
adequate funding is not yet assured. On balance therefore, the sustainability of the investments is likely but
not without some risk.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Ownership of the project by the central government and the IAs has been strong ­ one clear indication of
this is that they have borne 54% of the total project costs. The closing of the IBRD Loan has not greatly
affected ongoing activities of the project. The upgrading component is ongoing with GOS fully financing
investments as loans to the IAs and defects liability period monitoring of the STPs is continuing.

Reforms and procedures introduced through the project have been mainstreamed into the operations of the
IAs and are coordinated through central government. These include: annual independent auditing of
financial accounts within six months of the end of the financial year; the use of environmental
comprehensive mitigation plans; the quarterly reporting on many of the key performance indicators to the
PSC (which itself continues to meet regularly); the introduction of 99-year leasehold on SNL outside of the
project areas; the introduction in FY05/06 of payments to local governments for recurrent expenditures and
the Capital Development Fund, in keeping with the adopted intergovernmental fiscal transfer system.

In addition, although the Government budget for 2005 is constrained, there has been a commitment to
honor the remaining local funding (mostly for landscaping and retention monies) on the STPs; the
upgrading component in Nkwalini Zone 2 is going out to bid; and the PCU has had its term of office


                                                        - 18 -

extended by 12 months to specifically assist the IAs with on-going implementation.

The one outstanding issue that requires resolution for longer term transition to regular operations is for the
government to come to closure with the IAs on amendments to the SLAs, in particular regarding the size
and terms of final loan amounts to the IAs. This is necessary for the IAs to plan and manage their cash
flows and to adjust tariffs and user fees to cover debt servicing requirements.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Moderately Satisfactory.

The Bank team worked closely with the Government and other support agencies (notably USAID and
ODA) in undertaking a number of pre-project policy studies and consultative workshops. Thereafter, it
offered timely and regular support during the project preparation phase. However, the project objectives,
even though ultimately achieved, were ambitious and project design complex. For these reasons, the
Bank's Lending performance is rated as Moderately (rather than fully) Satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory.

Supervision was undertaken regularly throughout the life of the project, typically with key engineering and
financial analyst support, supplemented with gender specialist, environmental specialist and local
government specialist skills. When particular issues arose, the Bank's team was proactive in engaging the
Government on the need for improvements or changes (e.g. the detailed recommendations in the MTR;
reimbursement applications for eligible expenditures; introduction of direct payments for the STP
contracts; water tariff increases; shifting responsibility for upgrading to the City Councils; and advice on
the costs and financial impact of the redesigned STPs).

A good working relationship between Bank teams and the Government and its IAs was established from
early on in the project. This joint, open approach to supervision and issues arising was rewarded by the
slow but steady final achievements of the project. In assessing the need for the first two year and then a
further one year extension to the project closing date, Bank management questioned whether it would not be
prudent to close the project and reduce the financing burden of the two STPs on the central government.
However, the Bank showed itself responsive to and finally was persuaded by the Borrower's justifications
that it would in any event construct both plants.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is assessed as Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory.

The Borrower's performance in Lending is assessed as Satisfactory. There was close cooperation at the
time of preparation between the Government and the Bank. The Government made use of a PPF facility to
undertake very detailed design of each of the components of the project. The IAs also were involved in
preparation. Although some key decisions were not taken in a timely way initially, thus delaying project
effectiveness, the long list of complex conditions required for effectiveness, finally were met by the



                                                      - 19 -

Borrower.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is assessed as Satisfactory overall.

Throughout the project, the Government consistently met the conditions of the loan and availability of
counterpart funds was never a matter of concern during supervision. When particular problems arose on
the project and brought to the attention of the Borrower, if it did not already know of the problems, it
listened openly at the highest level and took proactive steps as needed. This was seen in a number of
instances, for example, in reassigning the responsibility for the upgrading areas to the City Councils; in
introducing the use of direct payments method on the STP contracts and in the regularly held and well
attended meetings of the PSC.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the IAs on the whole was Satisfactory.

Although Implementation Performance was problematic at certain points in the project, ultimately
performance issues were overcome. The IAs all dedicated adequate human and financial resources to
ensuring that their components were carried out, they met key loan conditions (for example, timely
submission of financial audits), and have taken on board Bank procurement procedures, involuntary
resettlement and community liaison practices and environmental mitigation systems.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is assessed as Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

     ·  The project faced a number of implementation challenges as a result of the low institutional base
        at the start of the project and the complexity of project design. Delays between design and
        eventual project effectiveness resulted in a number of problems. In the first place, costs
        inevitably escalated. For example, the costs of upgrading Msunduza escalated by 100% between
        1994, when the original estimates were made, and 1999 when construction finally commenced.
        The delays also acted as a dampener on the enthusiasm of project participants, especially residents
        in the upgrading areas and created room for dissension and antipathy, thus undermining the earlier
        commitments that had been given by communities in the early days of project design. For the
        future, under similar country settings, there should be greater emphasis on setting realistic,
        achievable objectives with parsimonious inclusion of project activities from the outset.

        In addition, in countries where the Bank has limited operational portfolios, local agencies regard
        many of the Bank's procedures as arcane. Special attention needs to be given to the inclusion of
        training in Bank operating guidelines (e.g. in procurement, resettlement, financial management,
        etc.)

     ·  In countries such as Swaziland (IBRD status and part of the Southern African Common Currency
        Union in which South Africa effectively determines monetary policy for all members) loans should
        be denominated in South African Rands (legal tender in Swaziland) rather than USD or . The
        volatility of the USD during the course of the project, particularly when the two biggest contracts
        were being undertaken, was expensive to the Borrower and extremely cumbersome for accounting
        procedures. Partly in response to this issue, the Bank will now lend in SAR, directly



                                                     - 20 -

  responding to the longstanding requests by both the governments of Swaziland and Namibia,
  and Bank Treasury officials recently visited the kingdom to confirm this innovation.

· During the supervision of projects, project progress needs to be assessed against a number of
  variables (ideally through the use of verifiable, cross-cutting key performance indicators) rather
  than using the rate of Loan disbursement as the sole indicator. Disbursement levels on the current
  project ran at well below projected percentages for a number of years because the bulk of the Loan
  was tied to two large contracts. However, this obscured the fact that the Government and IAs
  themselves were self-financing a large range of activities on the ground, not all of which were
  captured through the Loan disbursement system data.

· In Swaziland, as in other countries in Africa, under the existing traditional khonta (land allocation)
  system, most households already enjoy a well recognized security of tenure, frequently are able to
  provide their own hand dug wells or purchase water from a neighbor, and build their own pit
  latrine ­ there is little perceived incentive to participate in formal upgrading programs. In
  light of this, the lesson to emerge from the project was that community based development type
  components such as the residential housing upgrading component, should set modest, achievable
  objectives and be less prescriptive and more open to hearing from communities themselves, what
  their development priorities consist of. Development expenditures should be modest, concentrating
  on those services which are valued highly by beneficiaries themselves, and linking payments, where
  possible, to the direct use of services -- for example, pre-paid water meters to reticulate potable
  water throughout the neighborhoods, solid waste collection points, street/tower lighting to improve
  neighborhood nighttime security and one or two main access streets.

· Finally, the complex design of the project reflected the complex urban development challenges
  facing the Swazis in the early 90s. Due to rapid investment in the Matsapha Industrial near
  Manzini (about 30,000 formal jobs were created in the 80s as investors left South Africa) GOS
  was wholly unprepared to cope with tens of thousands of immigrants seeking jobs, housing and
  services. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development was just being established as SUDP
  design proceeded; the two town councils had low capacity and were subject to central interference
  in appointment of councilors and officials, setting of rates and tariffs, etc; SWSC was still a Board
  at the time, with low capacity, poor systems and dominated by central officials and politicians.
  There was no Urban Policy framework at all, and relevant legislation was outdated, scattered
  across various sectors, and entirely inadequate to effectively regulate the rapid urbanization
  process. Intergovernmental fiscal systems were entirely ad hoc and critical infrastructure was
  crumbling, with major public health risks particularly from the vastly overloaded sewer treatment
  and water supply systems and solid waste management sites and equipment. Informal settlement
  on SNL was skyrocketing, both inside the Council jurisdictions and in adjoining peri-urban areas
  under traditional administration. GOS had never dealt with challenges on this scale before, and so
  it was not familiar with either large scale (in the local context SUDP was very large) operations
  like SUDP nor with the planning and implementation practices and systems required to mobilize
  external financing to meet such a large scale challenge. After a decade of sustained effort, the
  multiple objectives of SUDP have been satisfactorily achieved. Would these objectives--all of
  which were and are critically interlinked--have been achieved more efficiently through a
  series of more focused operations? It would have been possible to have started with a project
  that focused primarily on policy, legislative and institutional reforms, but these are precisely the
  aspects of SUDP which are rated highly satisfactory, and it is arguable that without the incentive
  of available capital financing through SUDP these reforms might not have been achieved as



                                                - 21 -

        effectively. Urban projects are inherently complex, and a review of Bank experience over the last
        30 years will reveal that the first, and often the second, urban project(s) suffer delays and
        difficulties in virtually all countries in which prior experience is limited. This being the case, a
        key lesson (re)learned in SUDP may be that the Bank and the Borrower should expect difficulties
        in first urban projects. Both parties persevered in SUDP, and the proposed follow-on project--the
        Swaziland Local Government Project (SLGP)--is being designed in a much more focused, demand
        driven, rules of access manner based on experience gained in numerous countries in the region
        since SUDP's design more than a decade ago. However, the much less complex design of SLGP is
        possible only because of the achievements made through SUDP. Hence, it is arguable that SUDP
        again demonstrates the key lesson that the first urban project in a country will have to deal with
        a difficult complex of objectives, delays are to be expected, and high investments in
        implementation may be recouped through less supervision intensive successor projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:
----

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
----

10. Additional Information

See Annexes 9 - 15




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome/Impact Indicators

                                               Indicator/Matrix       Baseline (SAR)      Projected in last   Actual/Latest Target as per SLA
                                                                                                     PSR         Estimate
                                                                                                             (May 31,2005)
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
     DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE: To provide a basis for
        sustainable urban development (institutional reform)

SWSC
1. Improve internal efficiency
                                    Employees/1000 connections                     53                   18              18                 17
                                                   O&M ratio (5)                   33                                   n/a                33
                                      Unaccounted for water (%)                    47                   28              27                 28
                                    Defective meters (% of total)                   --                22.2          22.15*                  --
2. Improve financial performance
                                              Net income (E000)                 3,767                1,459          (2,753)                 --
                                       Debt service coverage (%)                   n/a                 n/a              n/a                n/a
                                         Bad debt/sales ratio (%)                  59                   15              15                 35
                                Average collection period (days)                  185                  136           139**                150
Manzini CC
1. Improve internal efficiency                                                                                         78.8                75
                                       Equipment availability(%)                    --
                                          Vehicle availability(%)                   --                                 73.6                75
                           Refuse collected/swd employees(cu.m)                    3.5                                  n/a                n/a
                     Length of roads maintained per maintenance                     --                 n/a              n/a                n/a
                                                 employee (kms)
2. Improve financial performance
                                              Rates collected***                   65                 93.2             95.8                60
                                    Increase in rates payable (%)                   --                 7.3              7.3                 9
                                            Arrears collected (%)                   --                                  n/a                 --
Mbabane CC
1. Improve internal efficiency                                                      --                  85
                                       Equipment availability(%)                                                        85                 75
                                          Vehicle availability(%)                   --                  90              90                 75
                           Refuse collected/swd employees(cu.m)                     --                                  n/a                 --
                     Length of roads maintained per maintenance                    3.5                 2.5
                                                 employee (kms)                                                      2.5km                  --
2. Improve financial performance                                                                        81                                 60
                                              Rates collected (%)                  65                                   81
                                    Increase in rates payable (%)                   --                   8              7.3                 9
                                            Arrears collected (%)                                                      18.5

* No charge: planned program of implementing the unaccounted for water study recommendations incrementally funded.
** 27 percent of gross debtors are central Government debtors of which E10 million are over 90 days.
*** Includes both arrears and current as aging debtors system throws payments to the oldest balance.




                                                                   - 23 -

Output Indicators

                                                Indicator/Matrix    Baseline (SAR)  Projected in last   Actual/Latest Target as per SLA
                                                                                               PSR         Estimate
                                                                                                       (May 31,2005)
Output Indicatiors:
         DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE: To address critical
                                             infrastructure needs

1. Expand water and sewerage network
                                        Metered water connections           16,466           26,593           28,007                  --
                                             Sewerage connections             4,028            6,752           6,721                  --
2. Improve quality of road network - Length of road                  9.9km in total
                                          Mbabane - km/employee                                             165.6km
               Mbabane - E in annual budget for road maintenance                                         E4,520,000
                                           Manzini - km/employee      13km in total
               Manzini - E in annual budget for road maintenance
3. Improve solid waste collection                                               92
                         Mbabane - Refuse collected (tons/month)                                 600            700                   --
                           Manzini - Refuse collected (tons/month)              46                              420                   --
                      Mbabane - Total area covered (% population)                                                 80                  --
                       Manzini - Total area covered (% population)
4. Upgrading informal urban housing sites
Develop low income housing markets:
No. of serviced plots delivered -
                                                        Msunduza                  0                            1,794              5,000
                                                 Nkwalini Zone 4                  0                             808
                                                 Nkwalini Zone 2                  0                                0
                                                Mahwalala Zone 6                  0                               0*
                                                           Moneni                 0                                0
                                                      Mhobodleni                  0                                0
No. of title/leases issued -
                                                        Msunduza                                                217
                                                 Nkwalini Zone 4                                                                    291
                                                 Nkwalini Zone 2
                                                Mahwalala Zone 6
No. of leases on former SNL awaiting formal registration (fully
                                                        Msunduza                                                   0                233
                                                 Nkwalini Zone 4                                                   0
                                                 Nkwalini Zone 2                                                   0
                                                Mahwalala Zone 6                                                   0
No. of mortgage bonds registered -
                                                        Msunduza                                                   5
                                                 Nkwalini Zone 4                                                                      7
                                                 Nkwalini Zone 2
                                                Mahwalala Zone 6

* Involving 1,023 resettlement cases




                                                                  - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

         Component             Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate       %age of Appraisal
                                       US$                      US$
 Policy & Institutional                   4,200,000                   3,939,144                    93.8
 Reform
Roads and Infrastructure                   9,300,000                  8,902,343                    95.7
Water and Sewerage                        19,100,000                39,279,864                    205.7
Residential Upgrading                      7,600,000                  9,808,688                   129.1
Project preparation                        2,500,000                            0                   0.0
PPF Refinancing                            1,500,000                  1,500,000                   100.0
Total Baseline                            44,200,000                63,430,039                      143.5
Physical Contingency                       3,500,000                            0
Price Contingency                          3,800,000                            0
Total Project Cost                        51,500,000                63,430,039                      123.2
Total Bank Financing                      29,000,000                28,955,000                     99.8


Note: The costs of the three works components all include the costs of the civil works, design review and
supervision fees,
compensation for involuntary resettlement. The roads component also includes the cost of equipment purchase.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB              NCB                       2           N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                              32.43              4.11                0.00              2.29         38.83
                                     (20.93)            (1.17)              (0.00)            (0.00)       (22.10)
2. Goods                               1.82              0.00                0.00              0.00         1.82
                                      (1.82)            (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)       (1.82)
3. Services                            0.00              0.00                9.44              0.00         9.44
Consultants' Services &               (0.00)            (0.00)              (5.06)            (0.00)       (5.06)
Training
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00              0.00                0.00              1.41         1.41
Land Compensation                     (0.00)            (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00              0.00                0.00              0.00         0.00
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00              0.00                0.00              0.00         0.00
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                              34.25              4.11                9.44              3.70         51.50
                                     (22.75)            (1.17)              (5.06)            (0.00)       (28.98)




                                                     - 25 -

 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                             1
                                                              Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category                    ICB                NCB                           2         N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                                       Other
 1. Works                                    26.04               0.94                   0.00              0.00              26.98
                                            (19.11)             (0.68)                 (0.00)            (0.00)            (19.80)
 2. Goods                                     1.23               0.00                   0.00              0.00               1.23
                                             (3.55)             (0.00)                 (0.00)            (0.00)             (3.55)
 3. Services                                  0.00               0.00                   5.44              0.00               5.44
 Consultants' Services &                     (0.00)             (0.00)                 (3.81)            (0.00)             (3.81)
 Training
 4. Miscellaneous                             0.00               0.00                   0.00              0.00               0.00
 Land Compensation                           (0.00)             (0.00)                 (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
 5. Miscellaneous                             0.00               0.00                   0.00              0.00               0.00
                                             (0.00)             (0.00)                 (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
 6. Miscellaneous                             0.00               0.00                   0.00              0.00               0.00
                                             (0.00)             (0.00)                 (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
     Total                                   27.28               0.94                   5.44              0.00              33.65
                                            (22.66)             (0.68)                 (3.81)            (0.00)            (27.15)

  1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

  2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
    of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
    managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



         Component              Appraisal Estimate (US$m)           Actual /Latest Estimate (US$m)               %age of Appraisal

                                                Co-
                            Bank  GOS/IAS     Finance    Total   Bank   GOS/IAS     Co-Finance   Total   Bank    GOS/Ias  Co-Finance  Total
 Policy & Institutional
 Reform                     1.792    1.212      1.196     4.200   3.853     0.241       0.620     3.900  215.0         20       51.8
 Roads and Infrastructure   5.500    3.800      0.000     9.300   3.546     5.354       0.000     8.900    64.5    140.9
 Water and Sewerage        17.100    2.000      0.000    19.100  18.922    20.378       0.000   39.300   110.7   1,018.9
 Residential Upgrading      2.000    5.600      0.000     7.600   0.873     8.927       0.000     9.800    43.7    159.4
 Project preparation/
 Implementation             1.108    1.392      0.000     2.500   0.000      2.12       0.000     0.000     0.0       152
 PPF Refinancing            1.500    0.000      0.000     1.500   1.500     0.000       0.000     1.500  100.0        126
 Total Baseline            29.000  14.004      1.196    44.200   28.694   34.086       0.620    63.400    98.9     243.4        51.8
 Physical Contingency       0.000    0.000      0.000     3.500   0.000     0.000       0.000     0.000
 Price Contingency          0.000    0.000      0.000     3.800   0.000     0.000       0.000     0.000
 Total Project Cost        29.000   21.300      1.196    51.500  28.694    34.086       0.620   63.400     98.9    160.0        51.8
 Total Bank Financing      29.000                         0.000                                 28.950



SAR Financing Plan           US$m         %                                      Actual Financing             US$m        %
IBRD                           29         56.3                                   IBRD                         28.694      45.3
GOS/IAs                      21.3         41.4                                   GOS/IAs                      34.086      53.8




                                                              - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


(This annex draws on the economic appraisal carried out by The World Bank in 2002; see Milne (2002)
in Annex 7).


As part of project appraisal, economic analysis was carried out on the proposed project investments. The
SAR stated that "the weighted average ERR was 27% for 55% of total project costs". However, the
detailed calculations (in particular, the annexes containing assumptions and underlying methods) are not
available in either the Bank or Borrower's files. Therefore, a comparable ex post economic analysis,
following strictly the same approach as in the original appraisal, could not be undertaken. In its place, a
cross section of investments made within each of the different project components have been analysed and
these results then compared to the earlier, broad appraisal summaries. In addition to attempting to provide
a cross section of investments made, those investments completed earliest have been selected, so as to use
actual completed investment costs and real maintenance and income values.

The following investments were analysed:

    1. Package 2 ­ Corporation Road, Mbabane;
    2. Package 3 ­ D98 Road, Manzini;
    3. Packages 6, 7, 20 and 26 ­ Water supply, Mbabane (Manzini's water supply system benefited less
         from project investments because it was less run down than that of Mbabane at the start of the
         project);
    4. Package 11 ­ Solid Waste site, Mbabane (the only solid waste facility developed under the
         project);
    5. Packages 13 and 21 ­ Msunduza residential upgrading, Mbabane (the first completed upgrading
         area and the only one in which any plots have been sold to date);
    6. Package 18A ­ Sewage treatment plant and associated works, Mbabane (commissioned March 31,
         2005).

The calculations derive the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the selected project investments
using standard cost-benefit analysis. The analysis period for each investment was determined in
consultation with local experts and set at 20 years for each of the roads, 15 years for the solid waste
landfill site and 25 years for the other investments after the main investments were completed. Costs
included all investment and incremental recurrent costs, net of applicable taxes and duty. Investment costs
were as borne by both the IBRD loan and partner (GOS or IAs) funding and include the civil works, design
review and supervision fees and resettlement payments (including valuers fees) where applicable (different
from the financing of the investments, under which the central government bore the costs of supervision
and compensation as grants). In all cases, the costs were obtained from audited accounts and the project's
draft financial statements for YR2004/05. Future recurrent costs were based on actuals or estimates from
the implementing agencies, augmented where necessary by advice from independent local experts. Benefits
were determined in discussion with implementing agencies, local experts, and in some cases cross-checked
against external research and working papers from similar projects in other countries. All costs and
benefits were converted from local currency to US$ values using official average annual exchange rates
from the Central Bank of Swaziland. In the original appraisals (SAR), project costs and benefits were
converted to constant values (net of inflation), and an opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent applied.
The same approach has been followed in the present calculations. The country's floating exchange rate
(tied by monetary policy to the South African Rand) and relatively free labour market means that shadow



                                                     - 27 -

pricing is not required (a similar assumption made in the SAR appraisals).

Investment costs for each of the packages analysed are shown in the table below:

Table 1: Annual Investment Costs Per Package (US$ million)
  Package      1997      1998       1999       2000       2001       2002       2003     2004       2005     Total
            2         0        0          0    173,364     116,803         0          0        0          0    290,167
            3         0   17,230     40,123    612,874     267,372         0          0        0          0    937,599
6, 7, 20, 26    509,852  846,202          0    994,110   1,294,609   580,262     88,902     3,389         0  4,317,326
           11 1,549,989   98,705    337,917    154,133           0         0          0         0   30,213   2,170,957
13, 21                0   22,575     59,401    356,223   1,365,534   977,392    783,901  632,409    466,885  4,664,320
18A                   0        0          0          0           0   301,191  2,063,094 8,241,435 6,069,760 16,675,480




The calculated EIRR for each of the investments are shown in the table below:

Table 2: EIRR of Cross Section of Investments
                  PACKAGE                                 EIRR %
 2                                              9.7
 3                                              7.7
 6,7,20,26                                      1.5
 11 (no carbon)                                 --
 11 (with carbon benefits)                      --
 13 (Plot sales only)                           --
 13 (Incremental rents only)                    1.4
 13 (Increased rates only)                      --
 13 (All benefits)                              8.8
 18A                                            7.0

Roads in Mbabane and Manzini (US$ 1.23 million investment costs)

Assumptions
The two roads analyzed originally were gravel feeder systems in need of major upgrading. Corporation
Road in Mbabane leads towards Msunduza and D98 in Manzini leads to the main highway. Without the
project, the poor condition of the roads and drainage would have resulted in continued high levels of dust in
the dry season (affecting roadside residents and businesses), extensive on-site and off-site erosion during
the rainy season, and higher vehicle operating and maintenance costs. Based on discussions with road
engineers in both Mbabane City Council and the Department of Works in the Government of Swaziland,
gravel road recurrent costs would be approximately $1,200/km for routine roadside maintenance and
periodic light blading with a grader. In addition, heavy grading would occur every five years, costing
$7,000/km.

Measured benefits with the project are lower vehicle operating and maintenance costs from the smoother
road surface, and reduced road maintenance costs. Tarring the roads and improving drainage systems
would also eliminate the dust problem, and reduce soil erosion during the rainy season. These were not
included in the EIRR calculations since deriving monetary values would require detailed surveys on
residents' willingness to pay to obtain these benefits, or in the case of dust, estimating impacts on human




                                                     - 28 -

health.

Vehicle operating costs were derived from the Automobile Association of South Africa using its cost
estimation model for light and heavy vehicles (light vehicles are cars, vans (such as combi-van taxis) and
pick-up trucks. Heavy vehicles include small lorries, buses and heavy good vehicles). Based on
discussions with civil engineers, vehicle operating costs on flat, reasonably maintained gravel roads will be
15 to 25 percent higher than on tarred surfaces. As gravel road grade increases and surface quality
becomes very poor, vehicle operating costs can up to 50 percent higher than on tarred surfaces. A figure of
25 percent is used in this report for D98 in Manzini and 40 percent for the much steeper Corporation Road
in Mbabane. For light vehicles, normal operating costs/km on tarred roads is $0.17/km. For heavy diesel
vehicles, normal operating costs on tarred roads is $0.29/km.

Traffic counts were not available for the Corporation Road in Mbabane; however government highway
technicians provided traffic counts for a similar road in the city, for the period 1991 to 1999. Based on
these traffic counts from 1990 to 1999, the mean distribution of traffic on Corporation Road was an
estimated 88% light vehicles and 12% heavy vehicles. Using a simple log function growth model (traffic
counts on this road exhibited wide fluctuations, making a logarithmic function a better fit than a simple
linear model), average light traffic volume was predicted to increase from 1,327 vehicles per day in 2000
to 2,009 vehicles per day in 2021. With heavy vehicles, traffic growth is fairly stable, increasing from 96
vehicles per day in 2000 to 119 in 2021.

With Road D98 in Manzini, actual traffic counts were available for 1990 through 1999. The mean traffic
distribution was 78 percent light and 22 percent heavy vehicles. Based on growth rates through a simple log
model, heavy vehicle traffic was predicted to increase from 137 vehicles per day in 2000 to 188 in 2017, or
approximately 2% per annum. Local officials felt that an average rate of 7-10% would be more realistic to
reflect increased heavy traffic flow after rehabilitation. An average rate of 8% is used in this analysis. With
light vehicle traffic, linear and log models predicted a decline in traffic volume, which was not felt to be
realistic. Local traffic experts suggested using the average annual increase from 1990 to 1999 of 12 percent
for light vehicle traffic with the new road. Traffic flows each day are assumed to remain constant
throughout the year.

Routine roadside maintenance for clearing drainage, servicing guardrails and cutting grass is an estimated
US$125/km. Light rehabilitation of the tarred surface (minor resealing and pothole repair) is required every
7 years at $6,500/km. A 20 year analysis period is used, beginning in the year after investments were
completed and a total 20 year period of recurrent costs before the tarred roads would require major
reconstruction.

Internal Rate of Return
The calculated EIRR is 9.7% for Corporation Road, Mbabane and 7.7% for Road D98, Manzini. The
figures are conservative, for two reasons. Firstly, the benefit of saved time from faster travelling speeds
with people using the tarred roads was not accounted for. Secondly, the environmental impact costs of the
older gravel roads (dust, erosion, siltation of water courses) were not included in the analysis. Corporation
Road provides an adequate rate of return without including environmental benefits; if environmental
benefits of are included, the EIRR increases above 10%. The annual level of environmental benefits needed
to bring the EIRR for D98 road to 10 percent is approximately US$200,000.

Discussion
The 1994 SAR calculated four of the five roads identified for project investments would yield an EIRR
above 10 percent. One road (D98 in Manzini) had an EIRR of >60 percent. While the 1994 analysis and


                                                      - 29 -

the current calculations used the same generic benefits (savings on road maintenance costs and reduced
vehicle operating costs), the exact assumptions and methods underlying the 1994 work cannot be
determined, for example, assumptions about traffic growth rates, operating costs/km, etc.

A review of Bank road investment projects in other countries suggest rates of returns ranging from less
than 10% for improvements of roads serving low income areas in small towns in Kenya (not unlike the
Swaziland situation), approximately 17% for roads requiring major rehabilitation in Madagascar, and 8%
for low-volume roads in Guatemala. The rates of return for the roads assessed in Swaziland are
comparable to the rates for specific roads in Kenya and Guatemala.

Residential Housing Upgrading, Msunduza, Mbabane (US$4.664 million investment costs)

Assumptions
Without the project, the informal settlement would continue to grow and lack adequate urban services such
as roads, solid waste management and potable water. Existing residents did not have secure property rights
and could not use their plots or homes as collateral with financial institutions to raise capital or, probably
more importantly in the Swaziland context, sell them on the formal local property market. Crime, poor
sanitary conditions, and environmental degradation would continue. With the project, the area was provided
with upgraded roads that reduced soil erosion, footpaths, clean water supply, water points and washing
areas, sanitation and sullage treatment in some areas, refuse collection points, tower lighting, and sports
fields in open areas. Residents have been given the opportunity to purchase their plots under secure title
through 99-year leaseholds. Also, for those residents whose existing properties were impacted by the
upgrading (for example, a road cutting across a plot corner), compensation was negotiated and paid.

The analysis assumes a 25-year period for recurrent costs after the project investments were completed.
Total investment costs from 1999 to March 2005 were US$4.664 million. Recurrent costs were difficult to
confirm. The Council took over maintenance of the area in 2004 and is collecting rates, albeit initially
from the central government. In cases where properties have been transferred, the respective owners are
billed for property rates and are responsible for payment.   The City's maintenance inputs in the area have
been calculated as a portion of a larger maintenance budget and based on actuals in 2005.

The project resulted in a formerly informal settlement with few services being upgraded into a surveyed and
serviced residential zone of 1,794 plots. The average plot size is 540 m2. Plots are sold to residents for a
term of 99-years at an average price (in 2005) of US$1,125/plot or US$2.07/m2. As at May 2005, 291
plots had been paid for in full and transferred and 708 had paid a mixture of partial costs and commitment
deposits. A total of E4,284,990 had been paid for the plot costs to date. It is likely that some 260 of the
plots will never be sold thus bringing the total number down to1,534. It is assumed that all 1,534 will be
sold by the end of 2007 (which may require SNHB to sell some of the plots on public auction, a
recommendation it has resisted to date).

The level of rates currently collected from the central government equates to the total rates that would be
charged to 100% of individual plot holders. The calculations assume that once the responsibility for rates
payments is passed to individual holders, the collection rate will be 80%, based on Mbabane City Council's
past four years average collection rate. The plots sales prices and rates collection are benefits that accrue to
the public authorities.

Another significant, quantifiable benefit from the upgrading is the increase in property values as the plots
are surveyed, transferred to individuals and become eligible for private sale on the local real estate market.



                                                    - 30 -

However, due to the housing shortage in Swaziland urban areas, there is not a strong buying and selling
housing market. Rental values rather than sales prices provide a better proxy of the increase in property
values as the rental market was active both before and after the project. Prior to the project, the rental
market in Msunduza was very active, with a vacancy rate of only 3%. Rental values reflected the services
provided by the landlord. Prior to the project investments (1998) the average rent for a home on an
unserviced plot was approximately US$55 per month. Local real estate agents estimate that after the
project (i.e. the same house on serviced land), the average rental rate increased to the equivalent of US$84
per month. Not all homes will be rented, but the imputed rental value provides a reasonable measure of the
incremental benefits to resident plot holders.

The calculations compare total investment and recurrent costs with each benefit separately income from
plot sales, imputed rental increments and rates/property taxes) to illustrate how each contributes to the
EIRR.

Economic Internal Rate of Return
The table below summarises the returns, depending on the benefits selected:

Table 3. Economic Returns for Msunduza using Alternative Benefit Flows
               BENEFIT                          EIRR %
 Plot sales only                          --
 Incremental rents only                   1.4
 Increased rates only                     --
 All benefits                             8.8

Discussion
The 1994 SAR analysis used the estimated change in property values as the prime benefit of the upgrading.
The SAR forecast the EIRR as 70%. Using this approach provided massive capital gains (which is a real
and tangible benefit) and hence the extremely high EIRR. Had there been a legal and active property
market before the project, this approach would have been suitable. However, as discussed above, in reality
it was an entirely hypothetical benefit, given the lack of property turnover both before and after the project.
Therefore, a combination of three alternative benefits from rates, plot sales and imputed rents, has been
selected for analysis.

The results show that evaluating the investments purely on rates and the value of plot sales does not yield
an acceptable EIRR. Rates would need to be increased by $5.75 million or plot sales increase by $5
million for either to bring their respective EIRR up to 10%. However, the change in imputed rental value
provides a close to acceptable EIRR of 8.8%; considering the total benefits of upgrading, and in particular
the economic benefits to individual households, the upgrading is economically justified

Water Supply, Mbabane (US$4.317 Million Investment Costs)

Assumptions
Without the project, water supply would continue to be inadequate to meet forecast growth in residential
and non-residential water demand. Mbabane water production capacity was approximately 13.5M·/day.
Water consumption before the project was approximately 5.5 million m3/year (2.2 million m3 residential
and 3.3 million m3 non-residential). Unaccounted for water losses, through a combination of excess
pressure in some distribution lines, and old pipes, was approximately 5.2 million m3. Existing deliverable
supply was not able to meet current demand or expected growth. Many informal residential areas were



                                                     - 31 -

without adequate water supply. For example in Msunduza, only 6.1% percent of homes had water service
in the house, and another 13.5% had water service from a nearby standpipe. Only 5.8% of homes had
proper sewerage systems. Environmental health problems were considered serious in low-income and
informal settlements. Under the project, SWSC implemented a comprehensive investment programme to
upgrade water and sewer services in Mbabane. Four water investment packages are included in the
analysis. They each represent an integral part of water supply improvements made in the city:

    1. Package 6 -        Raw water intake works, pumping station, clear water rising main
    2. Package 7 -        Water mains, booster station, and reservoir
    3. Package 20 -       Extensions to water treatment works at Woodlands
    4. Package 26 -       Reduction and control of unaccounted for water losses

Investment costs are actuals. The SWSC expenditures exceeded the original SAR planned financial
investments as SWSC made additional investments from its own resources to generate longer-term system
growth and income. Forecast recurrent costs were provided by SWSC. Annual investment costs to
implement the recommendations of the unaccounted for water losses are estimated at US$100,000.

After the project, the benefits of the water supply investments are:

    ·    Reducing unaccounted for water losses to 2.9 million m3 per year (down from 5.27 million m3 in
         1997 to 3.62 million m3 in 2005.
    ·    Additional water storage capacity in reservoirs of 3.2 million litres.
    ·    An incremental gain in water production capacity of 1.2 million m3/year to meet growing demand,
         now 40 percent residential and 60 percent non-residential.
    ·    An ability to meet growth in water demand, estimated to rise by 5 percent annually until new
         capacity limits are reached.

The benefits are represented by the value of reduced water losses at the existing tariffs (an opportunity
cost), and the revenue generated by the capacity to meet incremental demand, growing at 5 percent per
year. The weighted average tariff across all tariff blocks for 2005 is US$1.362/m3 and is assumed to
remain constant in real terms over the appraisal period of 25 years. The billing collection rate is assumed to
remain constant at 80%, reflecting recent collection efficiencies.

Economic Internal Rate of Return
The EIRR is 1.5%. In order to bring the EIRR up to an acceptable 10%, public health benefits (as a result
of clean water consumption) would need to be considered. It was not possible within the scope of the ICR
to estimate environmental and/or health benefits from improved supply of potable water to the city. The
major benefits would be health-related from reduced incidence of water-borne diseases.

Discussion
The 1994 SAR economic appraisal estimated an EIRR of 18%. However, the analysis included sewage
treatment investments (anaerobic ponds) which have not been constructed. In their place, a technologically
superior treatment plant has been constructed. A separate EIRR has been calculated for that investment.

Solid Waste Site, Mbabane (US$ 2.17 Million Investment Costs)

Assumptions
Prior to the project, the existing waste dump within Mbabane was filling up rapidly. Refuse was dumped



                                                     - 32 -

and then burned at the site. As a result there were fires 24 hours a day and smoke streamed into
surrounding residential areas. The growing health problem was compounded by the fact that there was
little separation of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. The site was not lined and the underlying soil and
geological structures were not conducive to containing groundwater contamination. The risk of methane
gas explosions was serious because of poor ventilation and landfill management. Without the project, the
existing environmental and health problems would continue.

Project investments ran from 1997 to 2001. The new site at Mpolonjeni is based on modern landfill
technology and improved management systems. The site is well lined and leachates are drained and
contained in a separate lined settling pond. Ventilation systems throughout the dump reduce the risk of
methane gas explosions. Toxic or hazardous waste is not permitted at the site. Improved landfill
management means that waste is compacted and covered with soil, rather than being burned. The City
Council waste levies and rates provide the operating budget for the operations, presently in the order of
US$15,000/year for staff, fuel and repairs for vehicles and plant at the site. A higher figure of
$20,000/year is used in the calculations to allow for vehicle depreciation and small capital improvements,
particularly on leachate management from 2006 onwards. The site has a 15-year lifespan (down from the
original 25 years), based on 2005 rates of waste delivery of between 30 and 35 tonnes per day. Coverage
for waste services was originally predicted to increase from 46 percent to 61 percent of the city through the
lifespan of the facility. This represents an additional 32 percent in waste delivery over 2005 levels or 2.2
percent per year. Following discussions with Mbabane City Council however, the real situation is 30-33
tonnes per day, increasing by 5.0 percent per annum. Waste delivery operates 260 days per year. The
tariff charged is E50/tonne, equivalent to $8.12/ton. The tariff has not increased since 2002.

Economic Internal Rate of Return and Net Present Value
Using investment and recurrent costs, expected revenues and reasonable assumptions about waste growth,
the NPV is $ -1.5 million, largely because annual revenues barely cover recurrent costs. Thus, future
discounted revenues do not offset the initial investment and substantial costs.

A measurable, environmental benefit is the reduction of greenhouse gases produced from burning waste 24
hours per day in the old dump as compared to compacting the waste in the new dump. If the ventilation
system in the new site were slightly modified , it would be possible to collect the methane gas released from
decomposition and trade this against carbon credits through the Prototype Carbon Fund, where 1 tonne of
carbon (equivalent to 75% of methane composition) is worth approximately $20 (World Bank, 2000) -- (
however, the site is probably too small for noticeable gains. Also, according to local engineering
experts, municipalities operating such systems in neighboring South Africa find the process too complex
to operate). Based on 1 tonne of municipal waste releasing 0.062 tonnes of carbon and as a guesstimate,
that 40% of the landfill methane could be captured by current technology (Sheehan, 2000), potential carbon
benefits can be calculated. The benefits are approximately $2,800 when the dump is opened, to just under
$50,000 at the end of analysis period, as waste volumes slowly increase. Given the small size of the waste
dump however, the potential carbon value makes little difference to either the NPV or EIRR.

Discussion
A doubling of the current tariff (to E100/tonne or $16/tonne) would bring the EIRR to 1% but the tariff
would have to increase to $46/tonne before the EIRR reaches 10 percent and NPV is positive.

Another approach would be to consider the health and environmental benefits, which were the key
justifications for the project. These could not be quantified with the available data. More detailed studies
are required either involving a contingent valuation survey to estimate residents' willingness to pay for



                                                     - 33 -

cleaner air, or an analysis of respiratory illness incidence rates in areas near the old dump and linking these
to health expenditures and reduced labour productivity.

The simple calculations however, show that an additional annual flow of approximately $440,000 in
environmental benefits is required to generate an EIRR of 10%. (The carbon values reduce the average
annual flow of other environmental benefits needed to generate a 10% EIRR (cleaner air, water) to
$415,000.) Applying the willingness to pay rate of 4.2% (Wang and Wittington, 1998) of household
income equates to a total willingness to pay of $1.1 million per year or US$74/household. If half the
households in Mbabane had been affected by the air emissions from the old waste site, then the value of the
environmental benefits for improved air quality would be enough to bring the landfill site's EIRR to 10%.

The 1994 economic appraisal estimated an EIRR of 34%. However, this assumed that tariffs for would
increase by 30% annually for 10 years, then increase at the rate of inflation. The assumption does not seem
realistic based on income levels in Mbabane. The present calculations show that to generate a 10% EIRR,
average waste charges would have to be $46/tonne compared to the current rate used of $8.12/tonne. By
way of comparison, in the UK, the charge is approximately $16/tonne in 1999 and $32/tonne in The
Netherlands. Given the huge differences in GDP/capita between Western Europe and Swaziland, it is
unlikely that solid waste charges in Swaziland could approach $46/tonne or even levels comparable to
those charged in Europe.

Sewage Treatment Plant and Associated Works, Mbabane (US$ 16.7 Million Investment
Costs)

Assumptions
Before the project, sewage in Mbabane was treated by means of waste stabilization ponds constructed
during colonial times. The ponds were located on a constricted site with no room for expansion, causing
them to become increasingly overloaded as the urban area and sewage flows increased. This caused the
quality of the final effluent from the ponds to deteriorate steadily, and by 1985, the pollution to water
courses and rivers downstream of the ponds had become a significant public health issue.

The sewage treatment plant investments ran from November 2002 through March 2005, when the plant
was commissioned. The works consist of mechanised pre-treatment works at Mqolo, gravitating to a large
site in Ezulwini on which are sedimentation tanks, filters and sludge digesters. The environmental benefits
of the pre-treatment works and the sewage treatment plant are considerable. The quality of effluent that is
discharged into the natural river meets SEA environmental standards. In addition, the works have little to
no odour emission to affect surrounding residents.

In May 2005, there were 3,529 sewage connections in Mbabane. On commissioning, the plant had a
throughput of 80·/sec raw sewage but has a design capacity of 250·/sec. It operates 360 days per year and
is designed to be able to switch flows between different tanks and filters to allow for continuous operation
even if some sections have to be temporarily closed for maintenance and repairs. It is conservatively
estimated that the works will reach capacity in 25 years. The SWSC sewage tariff differentiates between
residential and non-residential users. It is assumed that 30% sewage volume is residential and 70%
non-residential. The annual operating cost of the works (electricity, water, staff, security and chemicals) is
$404,000.

Economic Internal Rate of Return and Net Present Value
Using investment and recurrent costs, expected revenues and assumptions by local engineering experts



                                                       - 34 -

about sewage growth, the NPV is $29.4million and the EIRR is 7%. Raising the average sewage tariff by
25% would bring the EIRR to 10%.

Discussion
The SAR did not do a separate EIRR for the sewage works; large scale treatment plants were not
anticipated in the original project design. Therefore, the EIRR done at the time of appraisal, was calculated
for a combined water and sewage (ponds system) package. Given the close to acceptable EIRR, no
additional calculations have been done to include environmental benefits.

Sensitivity Analysis

A sensitivity analysis was carried out with ranges of between 10 and 20 percent. The different factors
selected and calculated had to be realistic and subject to potential change in the future. The investment
costs, for example, are already completed and cannot be assumed to increase or decrease. On the other
hand, future recurrent costs, rates, collection success and road traffic volumes are subject to change.

Table 4 below shows the impact of key factors that had significant influence on EIRR. Generally, the
recurrent costs had little impact on the EIRR. In the case of roads, traffic volume was used. For water
supply, the key factors are billing collection rate and growth in water demand. In the case of the STP,
changes in tariff affected the EIRR. For the site specific upgrading (Msunduza), only the incremental
imputed rental model was used for the sensitivity analysis since only it generated positive returns.
Generally, water and housing are fairly robust to changes in the selected factors but the roads, landfill and
sewage treatment plant are very sensitive.

Table 4. Sensitivity Analysis
                                                                       EIRR with Changed Factor
    Project Component and Sensitivity        EIRR from       +10%          +20%           -10%        -20%
                  Factor                      Analysis
1. Roads
(a) Corporation Road, Mbabane                      9.70%
Traffic volumes                                                   14.7          19.6           4.3          -2.5
(b) D98 Road, Manzini                              7.70%
Traffic volumes                                                   12.2          16.3           2.1            --

2. Water Supply, Mbabane                           1.50%
Tariff                                                              1.9          2.4           1.2           1.0

3. Housing, Msunduza (all benefits)                8.80%
Plot Prices                                                         9.5           10           8.5             8

4. Sewerage Treatment Plant, Mbabane                7.0%
Tariff                                                                9           10             6             5




                                                     - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                         (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year     Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/08/1992                    3    TTL; ENG(1); OpA(1)
              10/04/1992                    5    TTL; ENG(1); OpA(1); UDS(1);
                                                 FA (1)
              01/27/1993                    2    TTL; ENG(1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/29/1993                    9    TTL; SPS(1); US(1); FES(1),
                                                 FA(3); IDS(1); ENG(1)
              10/21/1994                    4    TTL; SC(1); FS(1); SPS(1)

 Supervision
              09/28/1995                    4    TTL; PS(1); DO(1); US(1)               S               S
              06/18/1996                    4    ENG(1); SDS(1); OpO(1); FA(1)          S               S
              02/07/1997                    5    OpA(1); ENG(1); UDS(1);                S               S
                                                 FA(1); OpO(1)
              08/02/1997                    1    FA(1)                                  S               S
              10/24/1997                    4    OpA(1); ME(1); OpO (1); IDS(1)         S               S
              04/24/1998                    4    OpA(1); IDS(1); OpO(1); FA (1)         S               S
              11/23/1998                    3    OpO(1); ME(1); SS(1)                   S               S
              05/25/1999                    4    TTL; SS(1); FA(1); IDS(1)              S               S
              04/26/2000                    7    OpO(1); ME(1); FA(1); PSS(1);          S               S
                                                 PC(1); GLS(1); PA(1);
              11/13/2000                    5    TTL; ME(1); FA(1); MFS(1),             S               S
                                                 SPA(1)
              05/2/2001                     4    TTL; ME(1); EE(1), FA(1)               S               S
              11/19/2001                    5    TTL; FA(1); SUS(1); ME(1);             S               S
                                                 FMS(1)
              05/15/2002                    4    TTL; FMS(1); ME(1); EE(1)              S               S
              11/20/2002                    3    TTL; FMS(1); ME(1)                     U               S
              05/08/2003                    4    TTL; FMS (1); ME(1); BPS(1)            U               S
              08/28/2003                    1    TTL                                    U               S
              11/15/2003                    2    FA(1); BPS(1)                          S               S
              02/16/2004                    2    TTL; SPA(1)                            S               S
              08/23/2004                    3    TTL; FS.(1); ME(1)                     S               S
              01/04/2005                    4    TTL; LWSS(1); OpO(1); TA(1)

 ICR
              05/01/2005                    1     SUS(1)
              06/28/2005                    1     SUS(1)

TTL      Task Team Leader                        OpA    Operations Analyst
BPS      Business Process Officer                OpO    Operations Officer
DO       Disbursement Officer                    PA     Program Assistant
EE       Environmental Engineer                  PS     Procurement Specialist
ENG      Engineer                                PSS    Principal Social Scientist
FA       Financial Analyst                       SC     Senior Counsel




                                                  - 36 -

FES      Finance and Economc Specialist                SDS    Social Developmemt Specialist
FMS      Financial Management Specialist               SPA    Senior Procurment Adviser
FS       Finance Sepecialist                           SPS    Senior Procurement Specialist
GLS      Gender and Law Specialist                     SS     Social Scientist
IDS      Institutional Development Specialist          SUS    Senior Urban Specialist
ME       Municipal Engineer                            TA     Team Assistant
LWSS     Lead Water & Sanitation Sepecialist           UDS    Urban Development Sepecialist
MFS      Municipal Finance Specialist                  US     Urban Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       168.4                            372.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                             79.3                            198.1
  Supervision                                      215.8                            471.5
  ICR                                                 2.5                            10.2
  Total                                            466.0                          1052.3




                                                        - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Automobile Association of South Africa. (2004). Vehicle Operating Costs for South Africa.
Johannesburg, South Africa.

Central Bank of Swaziland. (2004). Quarterly Review. Government Publishers; Mbabane

Central Statistical Office. (various). Data sheets and miscellaneous statistics.

John Burrows and Partners Swaziland and Euroconsult. (1993). "Swaziland Urban and Industrial
Infrastructure Project ­ Phase II Project Preparation Consultancy". Technical Report 1, Volume 2 ­
Economic and Financial Analysis. Ministry of Housing and Urban Development; Mbabane.

John Burrows and Partners Swaziland and Euroconsult. (1993). "Swaziland Urban and Industrial
Infrastructure Project ­ Phase II Project Preparation Consultancy". Technical Report 3, Volume 2 ­
Annex 4 - Economic and Financial Analysis. Ministry of Housing and Urban Development; Mbabane.

John Burrows and Partners Swaziland and Euroconsult. (1994). "Swaziland Urban and Industrial
Infrastructure Project ­ Phase II Project Preparation Consultancy". Proposal for Interim Institutional
Strengthening of the Swaziland National Housing Board. Ministry of Housing and Urban Development;
Mbabane.

Keare, D.H. and Parris, S. (1982) "Evaluation of Shelter Programs for the Urban Poor: Principal
Findings", Staff Working Paper #547. World Bank Publications: Washington D.C.

Milne, G. (2002). "Economic Appraisal of Selected Investments for the Swaziland Urban Development
Project". Mimeo.

PADCO Inc., (2003). "Study on Upgrading in the Peri-Urban Areas of Swaziland", Final Report : Phase 1.
Report prepared for The World Bank and The Government of Swaziland, funded by the Norwegian Trust
Fund for Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development.

Swaziland, Kingdom of (Sept. 2004). Auditor General's Report on Urban Development Project ­ Ln.
3807 SWA For The Year Ended 31 March 2004. Auditor General: Mbabane.

Skinner, R.J., Taylor, J.L. and Wegelin, E.A. (1987). Shelter Upgrading for the Urban Poor: Evaluation
of Third World Experience. Island Publishing House: Manila.

The World Bank (1993). "Housing: Enabling Markets to Work", Policy Paper. World Bank Publications:
Washington D.C.

The World Bank (1994). Swaziland Urban Development Project. Staff Appraisal Report. Infrastructure
Operations Division, Southern Africa Department. World Bank Publications: Washington D.C.

Wang, Hua and Dale Wittington. (1998). "Willingness to pay for air quality improvement in Sofia,
Bulgaria". Working Paper. World Bank. Washington D.C.




                                                    - 40 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

                    SWAZILAND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION

A     Assessment of the Project Objectives, Design, Implementation and Operation
      Experience

A1    Project Objectives

      The project had two stated objectives; a) to provide a basis for sustainable urban
      development through emphasis on policy reform, institutional development, pilot land
      reform, participatory development, and housing solutions for moderate and low income
      urban households and b) to address critical infrastructure needs (water, sanitation, waste
      disposal and roads). The objectives were set in the context of this project being the first
      phase of a long term programme aimed at increasing the delivery and effectiveness of
      urban management services and improving living conditions of low income urban
      households.

      The objectives were consistent with the Government's recognition of; i) the rapid growth
      of urban populations, particularly in the two main urban centres (now cities) of Mbabane
      and Manzini, and the development of unserviced, informal settlements on the perimeters of
      these areas (an outbreak of cholera in the mid-1980s had served to focus attention on
      these areas, and Government had responded by installing emergency piped water supplies
      where this was technically and feasibly possible), and ii) the need to restructure the
      administration of urban areas at national ( there were several ministries dealing with urban
      matters) and sub-national level, where with the exception of Mbabane and Manzini, whose
      councils had limited power, urban areas were centrally controlled.

A2    Project Design

      With no local precedent to work on, the project design drew on the Bank's recent
      experience within the region and was structured to address the physical, social and
      institutional objectives in a comprehensive and integrated manner. Hence the triple focus
      on a) institutional, legislative and policy reform, b) upgrading of services and provision of
      secure tenure within informal settlements and c) expansion and strengthening of primary
      infrastructure.

      The size, scope and complexity of the project meant that its design was itself a complex
      operation, comprising a 3-stage, 18-month process; a 3-month intense strategic planning
      exercise followed by preliminary then final design, and involving a consultant's team of
      some 50 professionals, a project coordination unit, a project steering committee and
      numerous sub-committees and working groups within central government and its
      implementing agencies, and participation throughout the process by representatives of the



                                                - 41 -

    affected communities and other stakeholders (NGOs, civic organisations etc). The project
    preparation and design phase covered the period 1992-1994. The loan was signed in July
    1995 and the project became effective in January 1996.

    To best achieve the project's objectives, the project design was divided into five primary
    components:

a)  Component 1: Policy Development & Review of Legislation
    The key tenet of policy and legislative reform was to achieve a well functioning urban
    sector in the medium term. Consequently, the following were identified through a series
    of workshops held during the preparation phase as key policy issues of focus:

            (i)    Allocation and sale of land in the informal settlements - this included
                   definition of policies and procedures to govern community liaison,
                   allocation of land in the informal settlements, design and pricing of plots
                   for sale on the basis of full cost recovery, and relocation and compensation
                   policies and procedures.
            (ii)   Creating an enabling environment for the city councils to collect property
                   taxes and raise revenue independently - this included developing an Urban
                   Government Policy to define the framework for local authorities' operation
                   with regard to central government subventions and commercialisation of
                   operations; and revision of the Rating Act to facilitate rating of and
                   collection of taxes from Government property.
            (iii)  Introducing a system of tenure that would be workable within the informal
                   settlements and on peri-urban Swazi National Land (SNL) - development
                   of urban and peri-urban land policies including definition of a systematic
                   process for incorporating SNL efficiently and equitably into urban areas,
                   based on the pilot projects on SNL included in the project. This would be
                   supported by review and modification of sector legislation and/or
                   regulations governing physical planning and development control, and
                   disposal of Government land, as well as developing a housing policy
                   implementation plan.
            (iv)   Initiatives for encouraging commercial banks to diversify into mortgage
                   lending - assessment of the feasibility of establishing a secondary mortgage
                   market to increase funds available for housing finance and to encourage
                   commercial banks to diversify into mortgage lending.

b)  Component 2: Institutional Support & Development
       The aim of this sub-component was to increase the long-term effectiveness of sector
       institutions, in particular, financial management as well as operations and maintenance
       capacity.    It was also intended to build project implementation capacity of key
       implementing agencies and other supporting institutions. This would be achieved
       through twinning arrangements, technical assistance and training. Specific institutions
       targeted included the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MHUD);
       Mbabane and Manzini City Councils (MbCC & MzCC); Swaziland National Housing



                                              - 42 -

      Board (SNHB); Swaziland Water Services Corporation (SWSC); and support
      agencies namely the Surveyor General's Office, the Swaziland Environment Authority,
      and the Deeds Registry Office.

c)  Component 3: Rehabilitation & Expansion of City Roads & Services
      This component aimed at rehabilitating existing city roads, developing new solid waste
      sites in Mbabane and Manzini and providing vehicles and equipment to improve
      operations and maintenance.

d)  Component 4: Rehabilitation & Expansion of Water & Sewerage Services
      This component aimed at reducing the negative environmental impacts of the
      inadequately treated sewage effluent into waterways and contributing to raising health
      standards through rehabilitation of existing sewage treatment works, and construction
      of new facilities in Mbabane and Manzini.           This would be complemented by
      rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply network to accommodate overall
      growth in demand and accommodate the requirements of the informal settlements to
      be upgraded under the project.

e)  Component 5: Residential Housing Sites including On-site Infrastructure
      This component covered upgrading on-site infrastructure consisting of roads;
      footpaths; drainage; water supply; sanitation; communal structures such as water
      points, refuse collection points, street lighting, and landscape works for about 5000
      informal urban housing sites of which about 3700 would be in Mbabane and 1300
      would be in Manzini. In order to accommodate varying affordability levels within the
      communities, plot sizes were designed to range between 200 and 750 square metres.
      Planning and design were undertaken in cognisance of existing settlement patterns,
      hence effort was made to minimise need for resettlement. The plot allocation, sales as
      well as resettlement processes were guided by plot allocation criteria, plot pricing
      policy, and resettlement and compensation policy and guidelines that reflect (i) the
      concerns of the affected communities; (ii) the need to minimise resettlement; and (iii)
      the need to ensure cost recovery and profitability for the implementing agency.

    Summary of Major Principles and Assumptions made at Project Preparation and
    Design Stage
          · At design the project was estimated to cost US$ 51 million (equivalent to
              E253 million at 1994 prices) and would be implemented over four and half (41/
              2) years.
          · On site infrastructure upgrading would be on a full cost recovery basis.
          · Upgrading of on site infrastructure would be through a Revolving Fund
              created through sale of plots in one area to generate funding for the next
              residential upgrading area. It was assumed the residents would repay the plot
              price in six (6) months.
          · Government would issue a Loan Guarantee to the Swaziland Building Society
              to stimulate mortgage financing for the lowest income group within the project
              areas. This would provide a premise for involvement of financial sector in low



                                          - 43 -

                   income housing in the future.
               · A 99-year leasehold title would be introduced in the project areas. This would
                   provide a basis for confidence in the title as bankable.
               · The World Bank and the Government of Swaziland were to be the main
                   financiers of the project, whilst DfID, USAID and UNDP would be the
                   co-financiers of specific project components.

A3     Project Implementation

A.3.1. Institutional Assessment

       The institutional framework for project implementation comprised the Ministry of Housing
       and Urban Development (MHUD) providing oversight and the city councils of Mbabane
       and Manzini, Swaziland National Housing Board and the Swaziland Water Services
       Corporation being the Implementing Agencies (IAs) responsible for actual project
       execution. The Deeds Registry Office, the Surveyor General's Office and the Swaziland
       Environment Authority were involved in project implementation as Support Agencies
       (SAs) to the Implementing Agencies. MHUD provided project oversight through the
       Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and the Project Steering Committee (PSC) with its
       various sub-committees.         Other agencies that were mostly involved in project
       implementation were the Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Economic Planning and
       Development; Treasury Department; Auditor General's Office; and the Attorney General's
       Office.   All these agencies contributed towards the successful implementation of the
       project.

A.3.2 Implementation Assessment

       A.3.2.1 Public Participation and Project Ownership
       From the very onset of project preparation, public participation was recognised as the
       `backbone' for project success.        Therefore, considerable effort and resources were
       dedicated to this aspect from the start. Capacity for this function was built both at MHUD
       and Implementing Agency level, and various strategies for community participation
       applied throughout project preparation and implementation. Despite this commitment, it
       has been difficult to achieve project ownership in some of the project areas. In effect,
       there is actual resistance to project implementation in one out of the five on-site upgrading
       project areas.   Similarly, construction of the sewage treatment works was delayed due to
       one of the host communities reneging on an earlier agreement reached regarding location
       of the treatment plant. Again, an alternative site is being sought for the Manzini solid
       waste landfill site as the previous host community is no longer amenable to the project.

       During the early stages of project implementation, difficulties of project ownership were
       experienced even among some of the agencies. These were resolved through an intensive
       consultative process which clarified the benefit of project implementation to each of the
       agencies.




                                                - 44 -

A.3.2.2 Implementation Strategy and Period

a)       Component 1: Policy Development & Review of Legislation
Policy and legislative reform initiatives identified as key during project preparation were
all in place either before or early during project implementation.           The successful
introduction of these policy and legislative reforms provided a critical platform for
facilitating institutional reform which had been identified as important for successful
project implementation.

These initiatives were subsequently complemented by other policies that have been
developed during implementation:
· The policy to enhance affordability was designed to aid the plot allocation and sales
    process by catering for those residents who may have difficulty in fulfilling their plot
    purchase requirements.
· An Intergovernmental Fiscal Transfer formula has been adopted to make funds flow
    from central to local government transparent and predictable. The city councils of
    Manzini and Mbabane and SWSC underwent a Credit Rating exercise to assist them in
    determining their potential for raising capital in the financial market.
· Following the introduction of plot allocation criteria that are not gender-biased, the
    project has facilitated a process for reviewing legislation relating to property
    ownership to remove gender biases. This process is still ongoing and is expected to
    culminate in a revised Marriages Act and Deeds Registry Act.

b)       Component 2: Institutional Support & Development
The two-pronged focus of this component was pursued through technical assistance,
twinning arrangements with similar organisations and training. Twinning programmes
were introduced for SWSC, MbCC and MzCC to enhance their managerial and
operational effectiveness. Similarly, technical assistance programmes were introduced for
SWSC and SNHB. The effectiveness of these programmes varied amongst the agencies.
Overall, notable improvements in management and operations were realised.

A Technical Support Unit (TSU) was established to support the PCU of MHUD, all the
IAs and the Support agencies with project implementation. Internal skills enhancement
has been pursued through training on various aspects that were identified early during
project implementation to be critical for success, and those identified during the course of
implementation. A sample of key areas addressed includes various aspects of: computer
skills; World Bank procedures; project management; contract management; and financial
management. A major set back to skills retention has been the high turnover of staff in
some of the agencies. Nonetheless, there are notable improvements in operations within
the agencies.

Most of the agencies either did not have or had incomprehensive management information
systems prior to project implementation.          A spin-off of the institutional support
programmes has been increased focus on introducing or improving MIS in all the
Implementing agencies.       Unfortunately, this important aspect of institutional support



                                         - 45 -

although identified as a major need for SWSC and the two city councils during project
preparation no resources were dedicated within the project budget to support the IAs for
addressing this gap. Over the years it has increasingly come to the fore as quite critical.

c)      Component 3: Rehabilitation & Expansion of City Roads & Services
The City Council of Mbabane was responsible for rehabilitation and upgrading of five
major collector roads, construction of a new solid waste landfill site and closure of the old
landfill site. The Manzini City Council was responsible for rehabilitation of numerous
streets within the Central Business District of the city and two major collector roads,
construction of a new solid waste landfill site and closure of the old landfill site. The
MbCC has managed to complete all its packages under this component. It has also
implemented other complementary initiatives namely, construction of a compensatory
water scheme for the community settlement in proximity of the landfill site and is currently
improving the leachate treatment facility to enhance the functionality of the landfill site.
The MzCC has completed the roads rehabilitation and upgrading projects but was unable
to proceed with construction of the solid waste landfill site due to resistance of the host
community to the location of the landfill.          The community's position created an
opportunity for efficiency in land utilisation and regional cooperation, as Manzini City
Council is now partnering with Matsapha Town Board (MTB) in constructing a regional
facility that would serve both towns. Although, this has meant the project has delayed for
Manzini residents, it is expected to yield considerable benefits in operational efficiency,
efficient land use and cost savings. Consequently, MzCC has not yet closed the old
landfill site, which is operating at full capacity. This therefore makes it urgent to proceed
with the MzCC/MTB joint venture.

Both city councils were assigned solid waste collection and management vehicles and
equipment. All the required plant and other related equipment has been purchased. Both
city councils report on a quarterly basis on plant availability and utilisation. The figures
indicate that both city councils achieve their performance targets, which indicate
acceptable operational efficiency levels.

d)      Component 4: Rehabilitation & Expansion of Water & Sewerage Services
The SWSC has improved water supply coverage in both Mbabane and Manzini through
construction of an additional reservoir in each town and through upgrading and
rehabilitating the water treatment plant in Mbabane. The SWSC has also completed the
construction of sewage treatment works for both Mbabane and Manzini, which addresses
the negative environmental impacts of inadequately treated sewage effluent. Both plants
are now operational. SWSC is also monitoring water consumption against supply, and
undertaking rehabilitation on the water supply network in Mbabane, Matsapha and
Manzini to reduce water losses based on an Unaccounted for Water study prepared under
the project.

e)      Component 5: Residential Housing Sites including On-site Infrastructure
The SNHB was originally designated to be the IA for the five packages under this
component, but due to a number of implementation challenges two of the packages were



                                          - 46 -

   re-assigned to MbCC and one to MzCC, leaving SNHB with two packages. The SNHB
   has completed the Msunduza site in Mbabane and is yet to upgrade the Mhobodleni site in
   Manzini. Upgrading of the Mhobodleni site is contingent upon MHUD resolving issues
   relating to administrative responsibility for the area after upgrading. The MbCC has
   completed the Nkwalini site in Mbabane and is currently upgrading Mahwalala, which
   should be completed in June 2006.           Although MzCC started preparations for the
   upgrading of the Moneni site in Manzini, physical progress has so far been thwarted by
   community resistance to the project. Currently, effort is being expended to resolve the
   concerns of the community leadership.

   Thus at close of the loan, only two of the on-site upgrading areas have already been
   completed, one is ongoing and the other two are undergoing design review. Progress on
   this component has been less than satisfactory due to the challenges that have arisen
   during implementation. It is imperative that these challenges be resolved to fulfil one of
   the key objectives of the project, which is to provide leasehold title to the residents of the
   informal settlements.

A4 Output/Outcomes Assessment

   A.4.1 Project Objectives
   The Mid Term Review (MTR) of the project conducted in April/May 2000 found that the
   project was generally sound and its objectives still relevant.        Emphasis was pointed
   towards adopting strategies for: (i) entrenching the financial independence of agencies; (ii)
   ensuring that the agencies achieve service standards; (iii) facilitating policy and legislative
   reform to ensure equity in access to land and efficiency in land utilisation; and (iv)
   strengthening implementation capacity within the various agencies and project
   management and coordination within the PCU of MHUD. At the end of implementation it
   can be noted that the project is lagging behind in achieving one of its key objectives:
   providing secure tenure to residents, given that only two out five on-site upgrading
   packages have been completed. Consistent effort should be expended to ensure that this
   objective is achieved.
   A.4.2 Implementation Schedule and Period
   A key assumption made at project preparation on the overall programme implementation,
   was that the various packages would be implemented concurrently. This was an important
   assumption because it influenced the liabilities of the various agencies, as their income
   streams from project activities were inter-dependent. For instance, although SWSC was
   supposed to introduce a tariff model to guide its charges for services on an annual basis, it
   also expected an increase in revenue following investment in the water supply network
   flowing from sales to residents within the project areas. Therefore, its projected income
   streams and loan repayment schedules were prepared in cognisance of these factors.
   Therefore, the delay in residential upgrading has affected SWSC's income, hence its ability
   to service its debt. Similarly, the delay in the residential upgrading packages has meant a
   delay in the realisation of rates income for the local authorities, whilst the demand for
   service delivery in some of these areas is already catered for. This puts a pressure on the
   cost of services for the rest of the urban residents.



                                            - 47 -

Project effectiveness was achieved a year later than anticipated that is on January 23, 1996
due mainly to the protracted resolution of the transfer of Swazi Nation Land required for
project activities to government agencies. The late implementation start coupled with the
fact that the executing agency and implementing agencies were on a learning curve
regarding World Bank procedures was translated into slippages in the implementation
programme.

A.4.3 Financing and Debt Recovery
Another assumption made during project preparation was that the residential packages
would be financed through a Revolving Fund.           This means that only seed capital was
provided for the first package, which would then yield proceeds for implementing the
subsequent packages.      The immediate impact of this was that the entire residential
upgrading programme became dependent on the ability and willingness to pay of the
residents of the first scheme. This was further compounded by the premise that the
residential packages would be undertaken on a full cost recovery basis. Furthermore, the
developer's loan repayment schedule was based on the ability to collect sales proceeds
within the short term. All these factors provided a recipe for a high implementation risk
which was not realised at the time, which hindsight has proved to be impractical for a
number of reasons: a) This overlooked the known fact at the time (based on the Land and
Housing Market Study done as part of project preparation) that the informal settlements
are low income areas, therefore the payback period has to be longer to enhance
affordability; b) Full cost recovery also meant the low income people had to bear a higher
average cost of upgrading than the rest of the residents within the city, which in
socio-economic terms is inequitable; c) The short repayment          period meant that the
developer was highly exposed to financial loss attributable to non-payment by residents,
hence adversely affecting its ability to service the debt.

A4.4 Loan Disbursement
Loan disbursements have been lagging behind actual implementation throughout the
original implementation period, except for the last two years of the extended loan period.
This is mainly due to three reasons: a) during the early years of project implementation,
the Rand/Lilangeni was quite volatile and weak compared to the US Dollar; this meant
that the cost of the packages implemented during this period reflected a lower cost in
dollars than what was the actual cost in Emalangeni; further, the completed packages were
smaller in relative terms; b) over the past two years the Rand/Lilangeni has stabilised and
become stronger towards the US Dollar; c) moreover, implementation of the two largest
packages (sewage treatment works) which account for over 50% of the loan proceeds was
delayed by over two years, and only commenced during the last two years, hence the
significant increase in disbursement. For instance, at the time of the MTR financial
estimates were that 71% of the loan should have been disbursed, whereas actual
disbursement was at 26%. This would give the impression that the project was grossly
behind schedule. But an assessment of actual physical progress of the capital works
programme reflects higher performance than the financial estimates. At that time 10
packages had been completed, 5 were ongoing, 3 were already being procured, 7 were yet



                                         - 48 -

   to commence, and 2 were deemed no longer required. It can be said at that time the
   project was about 55% complete.          During implementation, the Bank tended to rely
   primarily on financial data to scrutinise project performance therefore would consistently
   raise concern about a poor implementation rate. It can be observed that the analysis
   technique by being single-focused was misleading for interpreting all-round performance.
   A more informative approach would be to utilise analysis tools that consider financial
   performance in tandem with physical progress.

   A.4.5 Operation Experiences
   Although the project achieved its objectives, there were a number of challenges
   experienced during implementation. These included (a) delays in contracting due to long
   and tedious procurement processes of the Bank, unfamiliarity with the procedures by
   project staff, impact of staff changes within the Bank; (b) delays in implementation due to
   frequent changes in community requirements for hosting project activities resulted in
   higher costs which exceeded the budget available; (c) inadequate availability of
   counterpart funding from central government, resulting in further implementation delays.

   During implementation, the project received recognition from the Bank for sound social
   development practices based on the consultative and participatory processes utilised in the
   project for community involvement.

B  Borrower's Performance

B1 Project Preparation
   In a general sense project preparation spanned almost a decade, from 1985 when the
   project was first mooted, through feasibility and institutional studies, detailed planning and
   engineering design, to project appraisal in 1994 and the project implementation launch in
   1995. Thus twenty years later, any institutional memory, either written or human, which
   could be harnessed to assess the Borrower's performance in the early stages, no longer
   exists. The previous fragmentation of agencies concerned with the different aspects of
   urban development and administration (one of the problems that activated the need for this
   project), itself contributes to the unavailability of contemporary data.

   Formal project preparation only commenced in the late `80s, when a feasibility study of
   the physical components and three institutional studies were undertaken, which culminated
   in 1990 with a series of stakeholder workshops and the decision to proceed with an
   integrated urban project which would address the physical, social, economic, institutional,
   legislative and policy challenges facing the urban (and at that stage, the industrial) sector.
   The primary outcomes of these activities were the establishment of the MHUD in 1991
   and the award of the project preparation design consultancy the following year, after
   which the pace quickened considerably.

   In terms of effort, active involvement and output, the performance of GoS during this
   period was notable, and made a significant contribution to the project. The Project
   Steering Committee met regularly to monitor overall progress and address problems, but



                                            - 49 -

   the heavy-duty work was done by several sub-committees and working groups involving
   personnel, mainly from MHUD but also from many different government departments and
   parastatal agencies, working with consultants in developing a wide range of new and
   revised policies, legislation, strategic plans, appropriate engineering and planning design
   standards, as well as reviewing and approving a massive amount of technical output from
   the consultants themselves. All this input required a serious commitment to the project and
   its goals from senior government officials, and an unusual degree of dedication from the
   individual officers that participated directly.

   However, a review of the Borrower's performance during this period highlights one major
   problem (which has also persisted throughout the life of the project); an inability to
   maintain agreed time schedules and meet agreed deadlines. At virtually every step along
   the way, delays were incurred. In the early days, this could be blamed on the
   fragmentation mentioned above, and then on the limited resources of the newly formed
   ministry, but it seems in almost every avenue there arose unforeseen obstacles that blocked
   timely progress. Clearly the schedules and deadlines must have been too optimistic in the
   first place, particularly since they involved community representatives, who were
   themselves resistant to (even suspicious of) any time pressures, and land acquisition
   (potentially a massively sensitive and time consuming process); but the fact remains that
   the bureaucratic processes within and among central, local and quasi-government agencies
   in Swaziland do not support speedy decision-making, and this problem continually slowed
   progress.

   On reflection, given the size and state of development of the country at the time, perhaps
   the project was too large and too complex to be driven at the pace that it was. Whatever
   the cause, the result was that project preparation lasted a decade, and some physical
   components (e.g. sewage treatment works) took even longer to prepare.

B2 Implementation Performance ­ Central Agencies
   The implementation of the project had problems including resistance of communities on
   project sites and this resulted in delays in commencement of some of the components of
   the project, hence the very slow disbursement at the initial stages, to the extent that a large
   proportion of the loan had not been disbursed by the end of the last day of disbursement.
   The delay in start of implementation for some of the project components also led to cost
   escalations; especially on the upgrading of residential areas and the sewage treatment
   plants, which is a major component of the project. Government made a commitment to
   finance the costs over and above the proceeds of the loan.

   The World Bank responded positively to a request for extension of the disbursement
   period. As project implementation continued and eventually commencement of the sewage
   treatment works, the rate of disbursement increased significantly as substantial amounts
   were disbursed on a monthly basis. Following advice from the World Bank and based on
   experience with other loan-financed projects, the direct disbursement method was used for
   this component to speed up disbursement of the funds and payment of the
   contractors/vendors. Experience with use of the reimbursement method through the



                                            - 50 -

   Special Account proved to be a very slow process. However it still remained active to
   facilitate payment of small amounts for other project components. By the end of the
   disbursement period, the loan was almost fully disbursed (99.98%)

   Due to changes that occurred during the life of the project, it became necessary to review
   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements signed with the Implementing Agencies at the start of the
   project. The Ministry of Finance will soon resume discussions with the implementing
   agencies to review the Subsidiary Loan Agreements so that they reflect the changes that
   have taken place during the course of implementation.

B3 Implementation Performance ­ MHUD and PCU
   The MHUD was the executing agency for the project and was responsible for overall
   project coordination and ensuring that all Implementing Agencies' components were
   implemented according to project design. The Implementing Agencies included MHUD
   for components 1 and 2, MzCC and MbCC for component 3, SWSC for component 4,
   SNHB and subsequently MzCC and MbCC for component 5. (See Section A.3.2.2 for
   detailed description of components)

   The MHUD was supposed to establish a Project Coordination Unit prior to start of
   implementation to coordinate all project activities. But the PCU was only established two
   years into implementation. This adversely affected implementation progress as there was
   no dedicated staff to guide and support the Implementing agencies. Once established, the
   PCU has continuously provided support and guidance to the agencies. Similarly, the
   process of contracting the Technical Support Unit (TSU) took longer than expected;
   hence expert advice was not immediately available to the agencies during the early stages
   of implementation.

   The PCU was supported by the Project Steering Committee (PSC) and TSU in
   coordinating technical implementation issues and resolving implementation challenges, and
   providing the requisite support to the IAs.       The PSC met on a monthly basis to
   continuously facilitate implementation progress. PSC provided a critical platform for
   coordinating the activities of the various agencies and monitoring implementation
   progress.

B4 Implementing & Support agencies' Performance
   The Implementing agencies mentioned above were responsible for the actual
   implementation of their respective components.        They had a very close working
   relationship with the executing agency (MHUD) and the borrower (MoF), and the
   Support Agencies

   The MbCC was able to complete all of its original packages within the designated
   implementation period and is currently implementing the last of its additional packages.
   The MzCC was able to complete all of its original packages within designated
   implementation period, except for the construction of the solid waste landfill site which is
   now being implemented outside of the Urban Development Project.             The MzCC is



                                          - 51 -

   currently implementing its additional package.

   The SWSC has been able to complete all of its original packages during the extended
   project period.    Construction of the sewage treatment works for both Mbabane and
   Manzini respectively were the most delayed packages. This was mainly due to the host
   community of the Mbabane plant reneging on an earlier commitment to the project, later
   expressing additional requirements for accepting location of the plant within the
   community.

   The SNHB has only been able to complete one of its original packages during the
   designated project period. This is the Msunduza residential upgrading component, which
   was delayed by protracted consultations with the community regarding implementation.
   Furthermore, the terrain of the site was extremely rugged and steep, which also negatively
   affected implementation progress.

   The remaining package, Mhobodleni upgrading has been stalled by two factors: i) the need
   to resolve and assign an agency for administering the area after upgrading; ii) inadequate
   counterpart funding by central government has resulted in re-scheduling.

C  Bank's Performance
   The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory throughout the life of the project.
   During the course of preparation and implementation there has been a total of four Task
   Managers and several changes of support personnel over the years. These personnel
   changes understandably led to changes of focus and style in the supervision team, which it
   is felt, contributed to some activities taking longer than they might have done without such
   changes. However, it is also accepted that with such a long-running project, some changes
   were inevitable, and probably did not materially affect the supervision teams' overall
   performance. The Bank's input has assisted the project in moving forward at certain
   critical times during its long history.

   Due in part to previously limited Bank involvement in Swaziland, there was minimal
   experience or expertise within GoS or the IAs at the start of project implementation of the
   rules for procuring works, goods or services in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, or
   of administering the contracts that followed, so the Bank's supervision missions were
   required to provide patient technical support and professional advice to MoF, MHUD, the
   PCU and Implementing Agencies over the years, as well as training officers in
   procurement and contract administration procedures. Similarly, the Bank's teams have
   worked hard over the years to support the IAs in meeting their performance targets.

   The Bank has always responded satisfactorily to all requests for `no objections', and most
   of the disbursements were timely. The Bank also accepted the Borrower's request to
   extend the project loan duration on two occasions.

D  Lessons Learned




                                             - 52 -

D1 Size and complexity of the project
   a) Project design: A possible criticism of the project design is that by attempting to be
       all-embracing, important time and attention was deflected from the project's core
       objectives towards related but strictly peripheral activities `bolted on' to the core
       design (viz. Requirement for a Dam on the Black Umbuluzi, the Mbabane Land Use,
       Road Planning and Traffic Study, Accounting for Water, etc.). These might have been
       better done separately.

   b) Complexity: The project was designed as a core part of the mechanism for formulating
       and establishing the urban sector framework for the country, which was previously not
       coordinated or formalised. The project had to cater for conducting the policy and
       legislative reform for the sector and institutional strengthening of key agencies
       simultaneously with citywide and on-site infrastructure upgrading. This led to the
       complexity of the project in that the agencies that would be responsible for project
       implementation still required strengthening; and the required policy framework, which
       was previously non-existent, would be developed through the same project. It may
       have been more expedient that implementation of the various components had been
       staggered.

D2 Unrealistic timescale
   Based on the factors discussed above, with hindsight it can be seen that the 5-year
   timescale initially allowed for implementation was insufficient, since it actually took ten
   years to complete. However, there were specific reasons for this, which could not
   reasonably have been foreseen:
   · The land acquisition for the two sewage treatment works sites proved to be an
       extremely sensitive and lengthy process;
   · The aborted then repeated procurement process for Package 18 design and supervision
       consultancy;
   · The lengthy process involved in determining a plot price, combined with the slow pace
       of sales in Msunduza, delaying the entire                 implementation of residential
       upgrading.

D3 Land issues

   The informal settlements identified for upgrading, typically comprised the three land
   tenure systems prevalent in the country, namely: i) Swazi Nation Land ­ land held in Trust
   by the Ngwenyama and administered by the Chiefs; ii) Title Deed Land ­ Government
   owned plots as well as private farms and plots; and iii) Concession Land ­ Concessions of
   land issued by the Ngwenyama for certain purpose. To attain the objective of providing
   equitable access to land for residents in the informal areas the 99-Year Leasehold concept
   was introduced to harmonise the land tenure system within the areas.

   Although the introduction of the 99-Year Leasehold title provided the basis for equitable
   allocation of land to qualifying residents, socio-economic and legislative impediments to
   effective application of the tenure were identified during implementation. These included



                                           - 53 -

   affordability concerns and the variations in contracting ability of married women. A policy
   to enhance affordability was introduced to address the affordability concerns, whilst the
   Marriages Act is being revised, which would be subsequently followed by the Deeds
   Registry Act in order to secure the contracting ability of women regardless of marital
   status. It is notable that on average about 40% of the households in the upgrading areas
   are headed by women, and such households are mostly in the lowest income range.
   Therefore, it was realised that equitable access to land means more than issuing a title
   document, but also includes addressing impediments to access.

D4 Ownership by institutions and communities

   A Land and Housing Market Study undertaken as part of project preparation, to
   determine development priorities of the prospective beneficiaries revealed that they were
   keen to have their areas upgraded. Based on the information yielded by the study,
   enabling residents to raise their own standards of living by providing affordable title to
   urban plots and allowing for incremental building of permanent homes was identified as
   one of the key objectives of the project.     Nonetheless, it was still imperative that the
   project team secure community "buy-in" to the project. Therefore, a process for periodic
   consultative meetings between the residents and Government was introduced during
   project preparation to ensure that the beneficiaries concerns were incorporated into the
   project design and policy formulation. Although this process was lengthy and re-iterative,
   it was recognised as an imperative for ensuring meaningful interaction with the residents
   and assuring project acceptance. Furthermore, the consultative process has been carried
   through project implementation, beyond preparation as it was realised as the key means
   for retaining commitment to the project.

   During implementation it was realised that it was just as important to secure "buy-in" to
   the project from the various agencies involved in project implementation. Therefore, the
   PCU had the task of facilitating consensus and reconciliation of competing interests and
   priorities of the various implementing stakeholders with project imperatives. This was
   achieved through workshops, one-to-one meetings, and coordination meetings with all
   stakeholders.
D5 Resource Allocation
   Policy development and legislative reform as well as institutional strengthening were
   identified as part of the key aspects for project success. Yet in retrospect inadequate
   resources were allocated to these components. Furthermore, when funding shortages
   were realised during implementation, decisions were made to cut back further on these
   components.      This meant that institutional capacity gaps identified during the
   implementation period could not be addressed adequately, due to lack of resources. A
   notable example of this approach was the need for assisting the IAs with designing and
   implementing management information systems. Although this important aspect which
   would assist agencies better monitor and improve their performance, identified during
   preparation, no support could be availed to the agencies as there was no funding to sustain
   the activity.   Similarly, there was a cutback on training in order provide additional
   resources to the capital works programme. It can be said the soft development issues



                                           - 54 -

   suffered the consequences of competing for resources with high visibility infrastructure
   components.

D6 Cost Recovery and Affordability
   Hindsight has reflected that the parameters that were applied for implementing the
   residential upgrading components were at best unclear and self-defeating at worst. They
   overlooked the fact that the success of low income upgrading schemes depends on the
   beneficiaries' capacity to pay in terms of affordability and the repayment period. Applying
   full cost recovery weakened the beneficiaries' ability to pay. Furthermore, the mechanism
   for applying full cost recovery was unclear. Therefore, a decision was taken during
   implementation not to apply this principle directly to the beneficiaries. Instead it was
   resolved that residents should be liable for on-site costs and alternative measures be
   considered for recovery on citywide costs. This improved the probability for success for
   the schemes.

   Reassigning some of the residential upgrading packages to the city councils has allowed
   for parallel implementation of these packages and has improved the probability of
   achieving the objective of providing secure title to the residents.




                                           - 55 -

Additional Annex 9. Changes to Project Components (Loan Allocations)


Changes to Project Components (Loan Allocations)

       Component                 Original        Reallocation,        Reallocation       De Facto
                               IBRD Loan           3/27/2002*          2/12/2003      Disbursements
                                  US$m.             US$m.                             Under Loan at
                                                                                       EOP, 3/31/05
Policy and Institutional      2.7               3.0                  3.8               3.85
Reform
Rehab and Expansion of        4.5               5.7                  3.6               3.6
City Roads and Services
Rehab and Expansion of        14.3              14.3                 18.4              18.9
Water and Sewerage
Services
Residential Housing Sites 1.7                   1.7                  1.7               0.83
and On-site Infrastructure
Project Implementation        1.5               1.5                  1.5               1.76
Assistance
Unallocated                   4.3               2.8                  0                 0
                   TOTAL 29                   29                    29                29
* PSR # 20 April 2003 is the first PSR to reflect the component changes. However, it only refers to Bank Loan
amounts whereas previous PSRs referred to total project costs and the total amount was less than $51.5 million ­
this was not well captured in the PSRs, so the table uses the verifiable, formal Loan amendments and reallocations
made to the Categories

The first formal change was made in early 2002. By that time, Mbabane and Manzini City Councils, two
of the four main IAs, had completed all of their eight contracts under the Project (In the case of Manzini,
construction of a new solid waste site was not yet underway but this contract was taken out of the project
and will be developed separately, in joint venture with the nearby Matsapha industrial area.). However,
progress by other IAs on other parts of the project, in particular the residential upgrading and construction
of the STPs was well behind schedule. In order to keep the two councils actively participating in the
project and learning from the procurement and project management functions under the extended project
timeframe, the scope of the Policy and Institutional Reforms component and the Rehabilitation of Roads
component were both expanded.

The second change was made in early 2003, when project Implementation Performance on the part of the
Borrower was rated as Unsatisfactory. To address the implementation performance shortcomings and the
increased cost of the STPs, the funding of the different components was reallocated and previously
unallocated and uncommitted funds in all categories were reallocated towards completion of the STPs and
the Project Implementation and Institutional Reform. In the case of the latter, a second phase of
engineering, financial and environmental consultants to assist the PCU and the IAs and additional policy
reforms and studies in the urban and decentralization sector were undertaken.

In addition to the reallocations, the project was extended by two years, from March 31, 2002 through
March 31, 2004 in order for the outstanding physical works and policy studies to be undertaken.
Subsequently, the project was extended once more, through March 31, 2005 for the same reasons.



                                                       - 56 -

Additional Annex 10. Key Performance Indicators of Implmenting Agencies Over Time


Mbabane CC                                                      Mid-
                                                                Term
                                                                (Oct.
                                       Baseline 1998/99 1999/00 2000)  2000/01 20002/03   2004 EOP
% rates collected                             65     51      68      55     79        86   72     81
% rates collected (target)                    75     75      75             75       75          75
% plant & equipment available                        90      94      96     92       83    83    85
% plant & equipment available (target)        70     70      70             70       70          70
% vehicles available                                 85      90      94     94       98    90    90
% vehicles available (target)                 70     70      70             70       70          70
Refuse collected (tons/month)                                                             600   700
Manzini CC                                                      Mid-
                                                                Term
                                                                (Oct.
                                       Baseline 1998/99 1999/00 2000)  2000/01 20002/03   2004 EOP
% rates collected                             65     55      50      55     90       95    93    96
% rates collected (target)                    75     75      75             85       75          75
% plant & equipment available                        80      88      86     75       72    79    79
% plant & equipment available (target)        70     70      70             70       70          70
% vehilces available                                 80      88      76     86       85    74    74
% vehilces available (target)                 70     70      70             70       70          70
Refuse collected (tons)                       46                                          420




                                                 - 57 -

Key Performance Indicators of Implmenting Agencies Over Time (Continued)

SWSC                                                              Mid-
                                                                  Term
                                                                  (Oct.
                                         Baseline 1998/99 1999/00 2000)  2000/01 20002/03   2004 EOP
Employees/1,000 connections                     53     29      25      29     24       28          18
Employees/1,000 connections (target)            23     23      23             23       23          23
% unaccounted for water                         47     41      31      41     41       31          27
% unaccounted for water (target)                35     35      35             35       35          35
Bad debt: sales ratio                                  12      16      12     30       18          15
Bad debt: sales ratio (target)                  20     20      20             19       20          20
Average collection period (days)               194    194      62     277    307      277         139
Average collection period (days)(target)       150    150     150            150      150         150
SNHB (Msunduza housing area)                                      Mid-
                                                                  Term
                                                                  (Oct.
                                         Baseline 1998/99 1999/00 2000)  2000/01 20002/03   2004 EOP
No. title/leases issued                          0                            86      154   249   291
No. leases fully paid, awaiting
registration                                     0                           373      423   127    233
No. mortgage bonds                               0                             0         2    5      7
No. plots partial payments made                                                                    376
No. plots commitment fees paid                                                                     336
Mbabane CC (Nkwalini housing area)                                Mid-
                                                                  Term
                                                                  (Oct.
                                         Baseline 1998/99 1999/00 2000)  2000/01 20002/03   2004 EOP
No. title/leases issued                                                                       0      0
No. leases fully paid, awaiting
registration                                                                                  0      0
No. mortgage bonds                                                                            0      0
No. plots partial payments made                                                               0     0
No. plots commitment fees paid                                                                    371




                                                   - 58 -

Additional Annex 11. Municipal Plant and Equipment Procured under SUDP


  Equipment Description           Mbabane City Council     Manzini City Council
 12 m3 Refuse compactor truck    3                        3
 Tractor & trailer for refuse    2                        --
 containers
 Truck with container hoist      --                       1
 6m3 Containers                  29                       10
 Water tanker                    1                        1
 Wheeled loader                  1                        1
 Landfill compactor              1                        1
 10m3 truck with 1.2t crane      2                        2
 Grader                          1                        1
 Backhoe/loader                  1                        --
 5t Vacuum tanker                1                        --
 5t Flat-bed truck               1                        1




                                             - 59 -

Additional Annex 12. SWSC Tariff Requests vs. Approvals



      Year         Inflation %  Tariff Requested *     Tariff Approved  Implementation  Effective Tariff
                                         %                    %               Date      % (due to delay
                                                                                          in approval)
 1996/97         6.5            9                    9                 May 96          5.0
 1997/98         7.2            15                   15                July 97         11.2
 1998/99         8.0            12                   9.9               September 98    5.8
 1999/2000       5.9            12                   12                November 99     5.0
 2000/01         7.3            7                    7                 April 2000      7.0
 2001/02         7.5            10                   10                July 01         7.5
 2002/03         10.3           10                   6.5               May 02          6.0
 2003/04         7.5            10                   6.5               May 03          6.0
 2004/05         3.7            20                   13                April 04        13
 2005/06         4.1            6.5                  6.5               April 05        6.5

* Tariff Request made for March of the respective year.




                                               - 60 -

Additional Annex 13. Cost of Sewage Treatment Plants

The final financing of the two plants is summarized in the table below. The exact proportions of the cost
that will be borne as a loan SWSC or as a grant, have obviously changed since the original Subsidiary
Loan Agreements were drawn up at the start of the Project. During the course of the November 2004 Bank
supervision mission, the main principles behind the original financing were discussed in detail between the
Bank, MOF and SWSC. However, by project closing, negotiations between SWSC and MOF were still
under way.

              Description                    Em.          US$m.          %
                                                        equivalent
a. Final as built costs                   223.3        30.8           100
b. Payments from Loan (85%)               97.6         13.5           44
c. GOS payments to match Loan             14.6         2.0            7
payments (15%)
Additional amount financed by GOS         111.0        15.3           49




                                                   - 61 -

Additional Annex 14. Institutional Strengthening Activities

                   Contract Description                         Final Costs           Loan    Implenting   Financing
                                                                                               Agency
                                                            US$            E           %
Urban Government Policy                                                    158,300     0     MHUD        USAID
Land Legislation & Building Code Rev                                       263,800     0     MHUD        DfID
Housing Policy Study                                                       600,000     0     MHUD        GoS
                                                                                             MbCC/
Municipal Policing Study Tour                                                          0     MzCC        GoS
Credit rating                                                              165,000    85/15  MbCC        WB/GoS
Fiscal decentralization                                                    494,114    100    MOF         WB/GoS
Gender & Land Issues Study                                                  90,000     0     PCU         UNDP
Gender & Land Issues Study W/shop                                           10,000     0     PCU         GoS
TSU Main Contract                                           1,470,028      889,244    85/15  PCU         WB/GoS
                                   Contract Addendum 3 & 4                 356,591    85/15  PCU         WB/GoS
Financial Assistance to PCU                                               2,398,078   85/15  PCU         WB/GoS
TSS Main Contract & Addendum 1, 2 & 3                                     2,334,115   85/15  PCU         WB/GoS
Institutional options for peri urban areas                                 175,000
Procurement training (1) - 3 trainees                           8,900                 85/15  PCU         WB/GoS
Procurement training (1) - 3 trainees                           8,900                  0     PCU         GoS
                                                                             10,000
Procurement training (2)                                                      t.b.c.
                                                                             10,000
Procurement training (3)                                                      t.b.c.
Reg round table/upgrading w/shop                                            24,276    85/15  PCU         WB/GoS
Risk & Liability - 16 trainees                                               7,980     0     PCU         GoS/IAs
Construction Law - 16 trainees                                              25,920     0     PCU         GoS/IAs
Project Management (1) -10 trainees                                        178,237     0     PCU         GoS/IAs
Project Management (2) - 16 trainees                                       189,000     0     PCU         GoS/IAs
Project Management (3) - 12 trainees                                       240,400     0     PCU         GoS/IAs
Project Management (4) - 16 trainees                                       189,000     0     PCU         GoS/IAs
Disbursement Training - 1 trainee                                           37,931     0     PCU         GoS
Advanced Project Assistant - 1 trainee                                      13,949     0     PCU         GoS
Project Mngmt in the Public Sector                                          16,050     0     MHUD        GoS
Project Mngmt best practices                                                32,249     0     PCU         GoS
Managing Development Projects                                               57,503     0     PCU         GoS
Policy & institutional reforms                                            5,791,436          PCU
MHUD - policy formulation                                                  422,100           PCU
MHUD - Project Workshops                                                   439,914    85/15  PCU         WB/GoS


                                                                                                         DfID, USAID,
MHUD - Degree Training                                                     350,300           MHUD        AusAID
MHUD - Regional Workshops and Study Tour                                   376,663           MHUD        GoS
equipment for DRO, below)
Deeds Registry Office - Deeds Examiner (financed by GOS)                        n/a                      GoS
Deeds Registry- Training Delivery                                               n/a                      Gos
Deeds Registry Office (Imaging& Indexing)                      60,070      890,186    85/15  DRO         BF
Deeds Registry Office Equipment (Computers)                                 95,335    90/10  DRO         WB/GoS
Deeds Registry Office Equipment (Server)                                    59,851    90/10  DRO         WB/GoS
Surveyor Gen's Office - Staff Training                                                       SGO         DfID
Surveyor Gen's Office - Acquisition of Equip.
Surveyor Gen's Office - Inter. Degree Tr.                                                    SGO         DfID
Surveyor Gen's Office - Surveyors Fees                                       9,820     0     SGO         GoS
Equipment for Surveyor General                                              34,650    90/10  SGO         WB/GoS
                                                                           162,759    90/10  SGO         WB/GoS
                                                                            28,100    90/10  SGO         WB/GoS




                                                             - 62 -

Institutional Strengthening Activities (Continued)

                   Contract Description                           Final Costs          Loan    Implenting   Financing
                                                                                                Agency
Environmental Authority - Management Advisor                                 984,936          SEA         DfID
MZCC Community Liaison                                                                        MzCC        MzCC
MZCC Human Resource Rev                                                       96,830          MzCC        GoS
MZCC Twinning                                                                                 MzCC
MBCC UDP Community Liaison                                                                    MbCC        MbCC
MBCC Human Resource Rev                                                       96,830          MbCC        GoS
MBCC Twinning
Training                                                                                      MbCC        MbCC
Automation - A/C System                                                                       MbCC        MbCC
SNHB Policy and Institutional Reform
Interim Training - Field Trip
Interim Training Pack - Workshops
Project Management Specialist                                                     n/a         SNHB        UNDP
Business Admin Specialist                                                         n/a
Human Resource Advisor                                                            n/a
Housing Specialist                                                                n/a
Annual Training Delivery                                                          n/a
Plot Sales Planning Workshop                                                  42,150   85/15  SNHB        WB/GoS
Financial Management Assistance to SNHB                                      115,440   85/15  SNHB        WB/GoS
SWSC Policy and Institutional Reform
Annual Program - Needs Assessment
Intermittent Specialists                                                    1,656,824
                             Financial Advisor (Full Time)
                           Community Specialist (Part time)
                                   IT Specialist (Part time)
                                    Accountant (Part time)
                              Corporate Planner (Part time)
Overseas Secondments
                            Personnel Officer (M. Sc - UK)
                    Senior Accountant (Degree Course - UK
                          Accountant (ACCA Course - UK)
                             Accounting & Project Planning
Accounting & MIS Implemention/Training
SEB -- Consultants, TA, Training, Supervision of Works


GRAND TOTAL                                                   1,547,898    20,620,861




                                                               - 63 -

Additional Annex 15. Subsidiary Loan Repayments


Subsidiary Loan Repayments by Implementing Agencies (as at February 2, 2005)

Agency                   Fees and Interest                      Principal                 Balance
                                                                                         Outstanding
               Billed (E m)  Paid (E m)  Due (E m) Billed (E m) Paide (E m)  Due ( E m)    (E m)
Manzini CC              1.53         1.49     0.045         1.74         1.55       0.19           0.24
Mbabane CC              2.47         2.36      0.12         1.73         1.60       0.13           0.25
SNHB                       2         0.98      0.78         7.34         0.00       7.34           8.11
SWSC                      10         7.19      3.04        10.82         1.20       9.62          12.66
          Total        15.98       12.02       3.99        21.63         4.35      17.28          21.26




                                                - 64 -

- 65 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33491

       SWAZILAND

                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                DISTRICT CAPITALS

                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                            SWAZILAND

                RIVERS                                                                 SOUTH AFRICA
                                                                                                                To
                MAIN ROADS                                                                                 Hectorspruit

                RAILROADS

                DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                          Ngonini
                                                                                           Mlumati                                                To
                                                                                                                                               Komatipoort

                                                                        To
                                                                      Nelspruit
                                                           31°E                                                                                                                        L
                                                                               Emlembe
                                                                               (1,862 m)                                                                                                 e
                                                                         Bulembu            Piggs Peak                                                                                    b
26°S                                                                                                                                                  Tshaneni   Lomahasha                              26°S
                                                                  g                                                                                                                        o
                                                                                                                                                          Mhlume
                                                                 r                             Komati                                                                                                             To
                                                                e                                                                                                                           n
                                                                                                                         Madlangampisi                                                                 Maputo
                                                              b                                                                                                                              b
                       To
                     Bethal                                s                        H H O H H O
                                                        n                                                                                                                                     o
                                                     e         Ka Dake
                                                 k
                                             a                                                           Mbuluzi            Mliba                                                              M
                                           r
                                      D                                     MBABANE                                      Mbuluzane                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                Ezulwini                                                        L U B O M B O                                     .

                                                                                                                                                                              Siteki
                                                                 Mhlambanyatsi          Matsapha      Manzini
                                                                                                                                                                                                        MOZAMBIQUE
                                                     Bhunya                                                                         Mzimphofu

       To                                                     M A N Z I N I
      Bethal                                                                                   Lusutfu    Sidvokodvo                                                    Nyetane


                                                                                                                            Siphofaneni
                                                                    Mankayane         Ngwempisi




                                                                                                                                                            Big Bend              Lusutfu


                                                          Sicunusa                                                             Sitobela

                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                               Mkuze

                                                                 Gege
                            To                                               ov
                          Volksrust
27°S                                                                    Mkond                Hlatikulu                                                                                                  27°S
                                                                                                                                     Maloma
                                                                                                                                                             Nsoko
                                                                                              S H I S E L W E N I
                                                                                      Nhlangano                        Mgwav um
         SOUTH AFRICA                                                                                                              e


                                                                                                        Mhlosheni




  0           10            20             30 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                     Lavumisa


  0          5          10        15         20 Miles



This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                 To
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                            Hluhluwe
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                           31°E                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                         Ulundi                                32°E

                                                                                                                                                                                               SEPTEMBER 2004

