Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12753-SW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
October 21, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of December 31st 1993)
Currency Unit  =   Emalangani
US$1.00   =   E 3.2
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)   =   3.281 feet (ft)
kilometer (km)  =   0.621 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =   0.386 square miles(sq mi)
1 cubic meter (m3)  =   264.2  U.S. gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CMA               =   Common Monetary Area
GOS               =   Government of Swaziland
ICB               =   International Competitive Bidding
ICMA              =   International City/County Managers
Association
IHC               =   Industrial Housing Company
KfW               =   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LCB               =   Local Competitive Bidding
MBCC              =   Mbabane City Council
MCI               =   Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MHUD              =   Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development
MZCC              =   Manzini City Council
ODA               =   Overseas Development Administration
(U.K.)
O&M               =   Operation and Maintenance
PCU               =   Project Coordination Unit
PPF               =   Project Preparation Facility
PSC               =   Project Steering Committee
SACU              =   Southern African Customs Union
SBS               =   Swaziland Building Society
SEA               =   Swaziland Electricity Authority
SEB               =   Swaziland Electricity Board
SNHB              =   Swaziland National Housing Board
SNL               =   Swazi Nation Land
SOE               =   Statement of Expenditure
SWSB              =   Swaziland Water and Sewerage Board
SWSC              =   Swaziland Water Services Corporation
TA                =   Technical Assistance
TOR               =   Terms of Reference
TSU               =   Technical Support Unit
UDP               =   Urban Development Project
UNDP              =   United Nations Development Program
USAID             =   United States Agency for International
Development



SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ........................... i.                                  - i
CHAPTER 1: THE URBAN SECTOR  .............................. 1
A. Country Context .1
B.  Urban Sector Growth and Development .1
C.  Policy and Legislative Framework.                                                 2
D. Land Management.                                                                   3
E. Institutional Framework.                                                           4
F.    Previous Bank Involvement And Lessons Learned.                                  6
CHAPTER 2: THE PROJECT  .................................... 7
A.  Strategy for Urban Development.                                                   7
B.  Project Origin and Strategy.                                                      7
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement.                                                   8
D. Objectives.                                                                        9
E. Status of Preparation.                                                             9
F. Description.                                                                       9
Policy and Institutional Reform.                                               9
Policy Development and Review of Legislation .10
Institutional Support and Development  .................  11
Rehabilitation and Expansion of City Roads and Services .12
Rehabilitation and Expansion of Water and Sewerage Services .12
Residential Housing Sites Including On-Site Infrastructure .13
Project Implementation Assistance .14
G.  Activities Complementary to the Project .14
Community Facilities .14
Housing Finance .14
H.    Project Cost ...................................... 14
I. Financing Plan .15
J.  Flow of Funds and On-Lending Terms .16
K. Procurement .17
L. Project Management .19
M. Project Implementation .20
N. Disbursement .21
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Swaziland in June 1993, comprising Cecile
Ramsay (Task Manager/Senior Financial Analyst), Ebenezer Aikins-Afful (Sanitary Engineer), Dave De Groot
(Urban Specialist), R. Gopalkrishnan (Procurement Specialist), Mutumwa Mawere (Financial Analyst), Rudi
Murapa (Institutional Specialist), Maria Kiwanuka (Economist) and Asamanetch Fantaye (Operations Analyst).
Cynthia Cook (Sociologist/Environmental Specialist) provided input in the appraisal process. Peer reviewers are
Thomas Zearley (EAIIN) - Urban; Randolph Andersen (ACTCO) - financial; Jean-Marie Lantran (AF5IN) -
technical. Robin Harris provided secretarial support. The Director and Division Chief are Stephen Denning
and Phyllis Pomerantz respectively.



0.    Accounting and Auditing ..............................  22
P.    Bank Supervision and Reporting Requirements ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 23
CHAPTER 3: INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
AND SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT INITIATIVES .................... 24
A.  Swaziland Water and Sewerage Board .24
Operations and Maintenance Capacity .24
Financial Performance .24
Institutional Action Plans and Performance Targets .25
B.  Mbabane and Manzini City Councils .26
Operations and Maintenance Capacity .26
Financial Performance .26
Institutional Action Plans and Performance Targets .27
C.  Swaziland National Housing Board .28
Financial Performance .28
Institutional Action Plan and Performance Targets .29
D.    Sources of Financing for Project Beneficiaries .29
Swaziland Building Society .29
Non-Conventional Financing .30
E.  Cost Recovery and Affordability .31
CHAPTER 4: THE PROJECT'S BENEFITS AND IMPACTS  . .                 .......... .  .    . 32
A. Project Benefits .32
B. Environmental Impact .32
C.  Resettlement and Compensation .33
D. Economic Analysis .33
E. Poverty Impact .34
F. Project Risks .34
CHAPTER 5: AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ... 36
A.  Conditions of Board Presentation .36
B.  Conditions of Loan Effectiveness .36
C.  Conditions of Disbursement .36
D.   Agreements reached during Loan Negotiations .36
E. Recommendation .37



Annexes
Annex 1
1.1   Statement of Sectoral Policy
Annex 2
2.1   Detailed Project Description
2.2   Project Cost Estimates
2.3   Financing Plan
2.4   Contract Packages and Implementation Schedule
2.5   Table of Contents of Project Implementation Manual
2.6   Forecast Disbursement Schedule
2.7   Supervision Plan
Annex 3
3.1   Project Monitoring Indicators
3.2   Forecast Financial Performance SWSC
3.3   Forecast Financial Performance City Councils
Annex 4
4.1   Summary of Environmental Assessment of Project Components
4.2   Economic Analysis of Project Components
4.3   Documents in Project Files
Maps:       IBRD No. 25603-Mb
IBRD No. 25604-Mz






SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                                Kingdom of Swaziland
Beneficiary:                             Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MHUD),
Swaziland Water Services Corporation (SWSC),
Swaziland National Housing Board (SNHB), and the
Mbabane and Manzini City Councils.
Poverty:                                 Not applicable.
Amount:                                  US$29 million equivalent.
Terms:                                   Bank standard variable interest rate, 20 year maturity
with a 5-year grace period.
Comiitment Fee:                          0.75% on undisbursed loan balances beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
On-Lending Terms:                        US$24.6 million of loan proceeds would be on-lent to
SWSC, SNHB and the Mbabane and Manzini City
Councils at a variable interest rate (inflation plus two
percentage points) for 6-18 years depending on the
component being financed. Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk.  US$4.4 million would be
provided to SWSC and Mbabane City Council as grants
to assist with funding of sewage treatment and solid
waste disposal facilities.
Financing Plan:                          See para. 2.4.
Economic Rate of Return:                 Weighted average 27% for 55% of total project cost.
Staff Appraisal Report:                  No. 12753-SW
Maps:                                    IBRD Nos. 25603 and 25604



- jj -
Estimated Project Costs:
(U SS m illion)
LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL
A. POLICY & IN ST  REFORM
Policy Dev./Legislztion Re.                                                   0.1            0 .3         0.4
Instituional Support                                                         1.1            2.7          3 .8
Sub-Total                                                                     1.2            3 .0          4.2
B. R EH A B .&  EX P OF RDS & SVC.
Rds & Drainage                                                                0 .6           1 3           1 .9
Rds M ainienance                                                              0.8            0.1           1 .6
Solid Waste Disp osal uites                                                   2 .2            1 .4         3 .6
Solid Waste Disposal Equipmenl                                                                1 .5         1.5
Electrical Reticulation                                                       0.2            0 .4         0.6
Land Compensation                                                             0.1            0.0           0.1
Sub total                                                                     3 .9           5 4           9 3
C. REHAB. A EX P. WTR. & SEW SVC
W  ter Serv ice                                                               0.8            4 .0          4 .8
Sew er Sere ice                                                               2.6           11 .0         13 6
Water Loss Reduction                                                          0.1            0 5           0 6
Land Compensation                                                             0A1            0.0           0.1
Sub-total                                                                     3 .6          15 .5         19.1
D RES. HSG. SITES & ON-SITE INF.
On-Site Infrastructure                                                        3.4            3.0           6.4
Land Compensation                                                             1.2            0.0           1.2
Sub-total                                                                     4 .6           3 .0          7 .6
E. PROJECT PREPARATION
Project Supervision                                                           0 .6           1 .4          2 .0
o ther                                                                        0.1            0.4           0 .5
Sub-total                                                                     0.7             1 8          2.5
F  P PF Rerinancing                                                           0.0            1 .5          1.5
TO T A L B A SE C O ST                                                       1 4.0          30 .2          4.2
Phy aical Contingencies                                                       I 1            2 4           3 .5
Price C oningencics                                                           1 .            2 .6          3.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                           16 .3          35 .2        51 .5
Esimated Financing Plan:
USSM
IBRD                                                                                  29.0          56.3
Implementing Agencies                                                                  6.6          12.8
Government                                                                             14.7         28.5
UNDP                                                                                   0.3           0.6
ODA                                                                                    0.6           1.2
Other(Cofinancing)                                                                     0.3           0.6
TOTAL                                                                                 5 1.5        100.0
Estimated Bank Disbursements:
Flscal Year Ending June 30 (US$ million)
Year                          1995       1996       1997      1998       1999       2000      2001       2002
Annual                          1.9       2.7        3.5        5.2        5.0        5.2       4.0        1.5
Cumulative                      1.9       4.6        8.1       13.3       18.3      23.5       27.5       29.0
% of Loan                       6.6       16.0      28.0       46.0      63.0       81.0       95.0        100
Economic Rate of Return:  Weighted average 27%  for 55%  of total project costs.



SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHAPTER 1: THE URBAN SECTOR
A.    Country Context
1.1   Swaziland, a small landlocked country bordered mainly by South Africa, has a population of about
0.9 million and a per capita GNP of US$1090(1992). Its strong economic links with South Africa are
due not only to geographical proximity but also to its membership in the Southern African Customs Union
(SACU) and the Common Monetary Area (CMA). South Africa accounts for 80% of merchandise
imports and 30% of merchandise exports. SACU receipts contribute about half the fiscal revenues. In
addition, workers' remittances, mostly from Swazis employed in South African mines, account for over
15 % of GNP.
1.2    Albeit with wide fluctuation, Swaziland's economy grew during the 1980s. International sanctions
against South Africa and a market oriented policy environment with limited government intervention in
setting prices and wages were contributing factors. Since 1990, with the onset of the recession in South
Africa, economic growth has slowed. The situation was exacerbated by the severe drought that affected
the region in 1992. As a result, real GDP declined by 2% in 1992. Budgetary deficits have reemerged
because of recent increases in personnel and large capital expenditures in FY93, with only moderate
increase in revenue. More important is the change in the economic outlook for exports. With the gradual
opening up of the South African economy, Swazi exports will need to be more competitive than before
and investment incentives will have to remain competitive given the likely improvement in the investment
climate in the sub-region. Swaziland's main development priorities are: (i) sound macroeconomic
management, particularly fiscal prudence; (ii) improvement of the export orientation of current investment
incentives, given the changing political and economic climate in the sub-region; (iii) poverty alleviation
through emphasis on rural development and creating urban income/employment opportunities; and (iv)
human resource development.
B.    Urban Sector Growth and Development
1.3   Providing employment opportunities for, and improving living standards of, a rapidly growing
population are major challenges facing Swaziland. An urban base with an efficient and well maintained
infrastructure will be essential for future growth. Compared to other middle income countries, Swaziland
has a relatively low level of urbanization. In 1992, an estimated 25% of the population lived in urban
and peri-urban areas.
Mi.b-  -d M-rin . ftpultlon G-twh
120 -
100 
40J
1988     1991     1996     2001     2006
1986 C,o., 1991 . 20D6 p-oj)t.d
* Mbhh.n   ME .ini -



2
1.4    Mbabane and Manzini form dual urban growth points in the core region centered on the Matsapha
industrial estate in the west-central part of the country. The population in the Mbabane-Manzini corridor
is growing at between 5% and 6% per annum. Approximately 108,000 people, 13% of Swaziland's
population (roughly 50% of the total urban population) currently live in Mbabane and Manzini or in the
immediate peri-urban fringes surrounding these two cities. It is estimated that the population of the two
cities will total 215,000 by the year 2006.
1.5    Urban growth is largely unplanned. More than 60% of the population in the Mbabane-Manzini
corridor live in informal, unplanned communities in substandard structures on unsurveyed land without
legal title; less than 50% of the urban population have access to safe water; fewer than 20% are connected
to the sewerage network. Service utility operating systems, at primary, secondary and tertiary levels,
have also reached capacity. Water treatment installations for both urban centers are poorly maintained.
Sewage treatment plants are handling loads well in excess of original design capacity. Uncontrolled and
rapid development on steep land, together with widespread use of soil and timber resources for the
construction of temporary dwellings, are resulting in considerable environmental degradation. Low levels
of piped water supply and pollution of natural water sources contribute to a child mortality rate that is
significantly higher than per capita income would indicate.
1.6   Effective management of the urbanization process in Swaziland has been constrained by the
absence of clear sector policies, difficulties in obtaining land for urban development, a pervasive lack of
institutional capacity, jurisdictional overlap among a multiplicity of agencies, and inconsistencies or
conflicts among relevant national legislation and policies. Private and public sector developers provide
housing affordable to only high and upper middle income households. Given the lack of experience with
low cost housing and existing building standards, a major challenge for sector entities has been to develop
an institutional perspective that takes into account the income of target groups.
1.7   In late 1991, the establishment of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MHUD)
resolved many of the central agency jurisdictional issues with the transfer to the new Ministry of urban
management functions previously carried out by four other ministries. However, difficulties still remain
with regard to regional and local government units and parastatals playing key roles in urban management.
Financial management and operations and maintenance capacity are of particular concem. In addition,
antiquated and inconsistent legislation require revision. Availability of land for urban development is a
critical issue.
C.    Policy and Legislative Framework
1.8   The Urban Government Act of 1969 provides the basis for the establishment of local authorities
in Swaziland and is the primary legal instrument defining their powers and functions. The Act broadly
defines the role of a local authority as being the administration of the municipality and the general
promotion of public health, welfare, and convenience. In practice, however, the local government system
in Swaziland is characterized by a high degree of central government control over local affairs,
particularly with regard to policy making, planning, regulatory control and revenue generation. There
are currently two city councils, three town councils and five town boards established under the terms of
the Act. At the same time there are 55 Tinkhundla -- quasi-traditional local councils -- established under
the 1979 Regional Council's Order. The extent to which the 10 urban governments that report to the
MHUD are subject to the provisions of the Regional Councils' Order is unclear.



3
1.9    Other existing legislation critical to successful urban management in Swaziland need review and/or
modification. These include: (i) the 1988 Human Settlements Act that created the Human Settlements
Authority as a national development regulatory body - the functions of the Authority, which has never
been fully operational, are currently under review; (ii) the 1961 Town Planning Act that requires
authorizations from up to nine different agencies in order to obtain approval for township development
plans; (iii) the 1968 Building Act that establishes inappropriately high standards of construction and has
been the object of numerous recommendations for revision; and (iv) the 1967 Rating Act that allows strict
control of rates by central Government - failure to increase rates to generate adequate revenue severely
limit the ability of city and town councils to deliver services. Affiliated legislation such as the 1964
Crown Lands Act as well as the Urban Government Act also require review and possible amendment.
1.10   The Government recently adopted a comprehensive National Housing Policy for Urban areas. The
MHUD has also prepared a summary statement of Urban Sector Policy (Annex 1.1) which was endorsed
by Cabinet in September 1993. The National Housing Policy and the summary statement of Sectoral
Policy clearly define objectives and steps to be taken in several key areas, including housing markets,
housing finance, institutional development and land. Sector policies as summarized in these documents
emphasize cost recovery, Government's role as a facilitator of private sector housing delivery and its
intention to (i) ensure an adequate supply of land for housing with secure tenure and with access to
employment and services; (ii) take steps to increase access by low and moderate income urban households
to formal housing finance; (iii) improve land delivery systems; and (iv) develop appropriate, bankable
building standards.
D.    Land Management
1.11   The historical loss of land during the colonial period has heightened sensitivities to changes in land
tenure and has led to a complex mosaic of land holding arrangements. Of the three forms of land tenure
in Swaziland, Freehold, Crown Grant and Swazi Nation Land (SNL), SNL is the most common form of
tenure. About 60% of rural and peri-urban land is classified as SNL, i.e., land held in trust by the King
for the Swazi Nation and includes previously alienated land that was returned to the Swazi Nation. Land
classified as SNL is normally allocated by traditional chiefs on behalf of the King to Swazi nationals.
This allocation does not confer permanent rights. Thus the land, which is generally unsurveyed and
unregistered, cannot be used as security for raising capital. As a result, the SNL form of land tenure has
severely curtailed development of formal housing and the extension of urban services.
1.12   With land one of the most sensitive issues in Swaziland, building consensus on mechanisms to
secure land for urban development has been a delicate and protracted process. In 1992, MHUD obtained
the agreement and support of the King for allocation of SNL for urban development, an important first
step in the process. However, securing the agreement of community leaders and chiefs to proposals for
transfer and allocation of land is equally critical, and requires extensive collaboration with the chiefs, the
regional administrators to whom the chiefs report, local communities and other interest groups. In addition
a new system of 99 year leases is necessary which requires approval of a variety of Government agencies
as well as the King. Finally, both the Deeds Registry and the Surveyor General's office lack the capacity
to deal with a large volume of new leases and titles. While all of these issues are being resolved, most
development on SNL, in particular upgrading of more densely settled areas, have been deferred to a later
phase of the Government's urban development program. Two pilot areas on SNL are included in the
proposed project. The development of a systematic approach to inclusion of SNL in urban areas will be
an important output of the project.



4
E.    Institutional Framework
1.13   Sector institutions important to urban development include MHUD, the Swaziland Water and
Sewerage Board (SWSB), the Swaziland National Housing Board (SNHB), and the Mbabane and Manzini
City Councils. Supporting institutions important to housing delivery include the Surveyor General's
office, responsible for cadastral surveys, the Deeds Registry, responsible for registration of deeds, the
Swaziland Building Society (SBS), the primary source of mortgage finance, and the Swaziland Electricity
Board (SEB).
1.14   MHUD has overall responsibility for housing, human settlements, urban government, physical
and town planning, urban land and fire and emergency services. Since its establishment, the Ministry has
focused on developing its mission statement, finalizing its organizational structure, developing supervisory
arrangements for the many departments and agencies under its jurisdiction, and preparing an urban
development program. The Ministry has had difficulty securing and filling staff positions. Since April
1993, advisors funded by Australian bilateral aid have been helping the Ministry to establish the
departments of Urban Government and Urban Land Valuation. Assistance is also being provided to the
Department of Housing and Human settlements.
1.15   SWSB established in 1974, under the provisions of the Administration of the Water and Sewerage
Special Fund Regulations of the same year was recently (August 1, 1994) restructured and vested as the
Swaziland Water Services (SWSC), a new more autonomous, and commercially oriented parastatal
organization which has now taken over the functions of SWSB. Until this recent change, SWSB was
responsible for developing, operating, and maintaining public water supplies and water-borne sewerage
facilities in urban areas.  The Board operated twenty water supply systems and eight sewerage
systems/treatment facilities nationwide. It generally contracted private firms to design and construct new
capital works while operation and maintenance of existing facilities was typically done through force
account. SWSB operated as a department of MHUD, but with separate funding provided under the
national budget. Its operations were guided by a seven member Board of Directors and managed on a
day-to-day basis by a Board-appointed Director. In 1993, SWSB had about 384 permanent and an
additional 400 temporary staff.
1.16   SWSB's operations were characterized by subsidized provision of services and little emphasis on
internal efficiency. Lack of access to capital to replace and upgrade assets and poor operations and
maintenance contributed to severe deterioration in existing infrastructure. In Mbabane and Manzini
unaccounted-for water on average, is estimated at about 45 % of that produced, the result of system losses
and illegal connections. The Board's performance was affected by an excess of unskilled workers and
many temporary vacancies in professional positions as staff are sent overseas for training. SWSB's
financial performance was a major concern --the Board had operating losses over the past five years and
was a recipient of Government subsidies. Government has provided financial support through debt service
and salary support loans.
1.17   A 1989 organization and management study funded by the Overseas Development Agency (ODA)
concluded that many of the chronic problems of the SWSB stemmed from its position as a dependent arm
of the Government of Swaziland (GOS). The study recommended SWSB's transformation into the more
autonomous and commercially oriented structure represented by the SWSC. Establishment of the SWSC
was facilitated by the Water Services Corporation Act, approved by Cabinet in 1991. As part of the
transformation into a more independent authority, the study identified substantial institutional support
requirements, including a "twinning" arrangements. These capacity building measures were adopted and



5
implemented with funding from ODA. In addition, the study identified the need for substantial
institutional support to enable the recommendations to be implemented and proposed a "twinning"
arrangement. In 1991, Cabinet approved the Water Services Corporation Bill that provided for the
creation of a new parastatal organization, the Swaziland Water and Services Corporation (SWSC) to take
over the current functions of SWSB. The new corporation was recently vested, more than a year later
than originally planned.
1.18   SNHB was established as a parastatal organization by an act of Parliament in 1988. The Board's
establishment was one of the recommendations of a 1987 technical assistance project funded by the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) and executed by the Bank that provided experts to help draft a
housing policy paper and a housing implementation plan. Its defined functions were to develop affordable
housing on a financially self-sustaining basis; manage existing public housing schemes as required by
Government; and implement, shelter-related policies of Government.
1.19   SNHB's operations are guided by a 9-member Board of Directors. A total staff complement of
90, organized into estate management, project development, administration, and finance divisions, report
to a Board-appointed General Manager (GM), who directs the SNHB's day-to-day operations. SNHB
manages a portfolio of about 1,050 middle income rental units transferred to it from its predecessors, and
has initiated construction of 300 middle income housing units.
1.20   SNHB has been profitable since its establishment. However, its financial position could deteriorate
if close attention is not paid to cost recovery and monitoring and control of costs. Rent controls and
falling profit margins on middle income housing projects are factors constraining SNHB's profitability.
Institutional priorities for SNHB are to develop systems and procedures for low income housing delivery,
improve administrative and financial management, establish manpower development policies and develop
staff training programs.
1.21   Mbabane and Manzini City Councils.  Each has a 15-member Government appointed Council
that is responsible for local policy setting functions, with the support of a Management Committee. Day-
to-day operations are directed by a Chief Executive Officer, and four line departments (Clerk to Council,
City Engineer, City Treasurer and Directorate of Health). While the pensionable staff establishments of
the Mbabane and Manzini City Councils total 56 and 100, respectively, each city also employs
approximately 300 daily paid workers. Because the wages of council workers are generally higher than
for similar positions in central government, staff turnover and vacancies are not as serious a problem for
the councils as for national-level institutions. However, growth in the number of employees (in particular
the number of daily paid workers) and salaries, without a corresponding increase in the level of
operations, is of concern.  For both councils, the personnel management function needs to be
strengthened.
1.22   The operations of the councils are deficient in several areas. Both councils lack experienced
community relations staff. Cleansing departments (responsible for pit latrines and septic tanks) as well as
Building Regulations and Health Inspectorates need strengthening. The Councils have not placed
sufficient emphasis on maintenance due to antiquated equipment and a lack of resources for planned
maintenance programs.
1.23   The financial performance of both councils is constrained, to varying degrees, by poor financial
systems and procedures, an inadequate revenue base and poor fiscal management. Mbabane's financial
performance is the more critical. A recent review revealed significant cash flow problems. Mbabane's



6
financial management is characterized by: (i) reluctance of Council members to propose adequate annual
increases in rates and charges; (ii) inadequate recovery of rates earned; and (iii) expenditure growth well
in excess of inflation, without compensating growth in Council activity. Manzini City Council has a
somewhat better financial performance although it has a proportionally smaller revenue base compared
to its level of operations because the Matsapha industrial estate, the largest source of employment for its
residential population, is outside its jurisdiction.
1.24   The Construction Industry. The proposed urban development project, with its large housing
component, will provide unprecedented opportunities for the construction industry in general and small
contractors in particular. Major constraints identified in the industry which might limit its participation
in the project include: (i) lack of capital, hence the inability to purchase or hire basic equipment and
materials; (ii) unavailability of credit; (iii) an open tendering process which makes tendering both costly
and time consuming; (iv) long payment delays due to GOS budgetary and payment procedures; (v)
difficulty obtaining performance bonds; (vi) shortage of indigenous skilled labor; and (vii) weaknesses in
contract management.
1.25   An on-going USAID-funded program is attempting to address these constraints by providing
assistance to Swazi builders utilizing building contractors and professionals with construction management
skills. The program, which emphasizes on the job training to improve technical and management skills,
has been one of the more successful support programs. Based on the recommendations of a construction
industry review by Bank consultants, the program has been expanded to increase the number of building
contractors supported from 12 to 28.
F.    Previous Bank Involvement And Lessons Learned
1.26   Bank lending to Swaziland. Between 1962 (when the Bank began operations in Swaziland) and
1985, the Bank provided loans for 13 projects - one water supply and sewerage project, three road
projects, three education projects, three power projects, one rural development project, a development
finance company project, and a cyclone rehabilitation Project.
1.27   A US $2.7 million loan for the Swaziland Water Supply and Sewerage Project was approved in
1974. Project objectives were to provide improved water supply and sewerage facilities Mbabane,
Manzini and Kwaluseni, as well as a new source of water for Nhlangano. The project also aimed to
improve management of water supply and sewerage services by strengthening the then newly formed
SWSB. While the physical objectives of the project were met, the institutional and financial objectives
were not. The project failed to improve institutional effectiveness due to continued Government control,
particularly of personnel and financial management functions, despite SWSB's change to Board status.
The design of the proposed project reflects the lessons learnt from the previous project; in particular the
need for (i) greater managerial autonomy for the Board, (ii) more emphasis on cost recovery and (iii)
increased internal efficiency.
1.28   Bank lending for Urban Sector Projects. Bank experience with urban projects shows that (i)
Borrower support and commitment is critical to project success (especially for complex projects) and to
achievement of institutional development objectives: (ii) cost recovery is key to project sustainability and
(iii) beneficiary involvement is essential for successful upgrading of informal housing settlements. These
lessons have been taken into account in project preparation and design.



7
CHAPTER 2: THE PROJECT
A.    Strategy for Urban Development
2.1   Swaziland's urban development strategy reflects policies laid out in the National Housing Policy
and MHUD's Statement of Sectoral Policy. It emphasizes: (a) an integrated city-wide approach to urban
housing and infrastructure that stresses cost recovery and affordability and alleviating constraints on sector
efficiency; (b) employment generation, particularly for the urban poor; (c) improved access to basic
infrastructure and social services, taking particular account of women, children and the poor; (d) increased
understanding and contribution to the satisfactory resolution of urban issues by community and national
groups; and (e) improvements in urban environmental problems.
2.2   In implementing its strategy in the short to medium term, the Government, through MHUD, has
given and will continue to give priority to:
(a)   strengthening and improving the efficiency and effectiveness of sector agencies, including
MHUD, and clarifying the expected role of each agency through policy statements and
legislative changes;
(b)    developing mechanisms to make land available for urban development and to provide
secure tenure for individual residents, moderate and low income groups in particular;
(c)   increasing community participation in urban development to ensure beneficiary support
for development proposals;
(d)   reviewing design standards and monitoring more effectively the scope and pace of
development to ensure that urban infrastructure can be maintained by sector agencies and
that development is affordable to affected communities;
(e)    ensuring cost recovery and prudent fiscal management by sector entities in particular for
the currently heavily subsized water sector;
(f)    adopting appropriate environmental policies and selecting the best practicable
environmental options in project planning and implementation;
(g)   supporting, where feasible, efforts to strengthen local industries, for example, by
providing opportunities for growth of the construction industry through appropriate
packaging of construction contracts and by providing facilities to support the informal
sector; and
(h)    developing mechanisms to make housing finance available to all income groups.
B.    Project Origin and Strategy
2.3   The project was initially identified in 1987 following a UNDP-funded project to prepare a
National Housing Policy, National Housing Implementation Plan and a National Industrial Estate



8
Development and Management Strategy.  During project preparation, several diagnostic studies were
carried out to help identify constraints to urban sector growth and development. Areas reviewed included
the policy and institutional framework, institutional capacity, supply and demand for housing, and the
performance of the existing infrastructure. The capacity of industries, such as the local construction
industry and the financial sector, to support housing and infrastructure development was also examined.
2.4   Issues identified during project preparation have helped to shape the Government's medium and
long-term development strategy for the urban sector. Institutional and policy reform have already been
initiated to address problems identified. Initiatives include the adoption of the National Housing Policy
for urban areas, the establishment of MHUD, and the restructuring of SWSB. Other policy reform and
development actions necessary to achieve a well functioning urban sector over the medium term will be
supported by the proposed project. The recommendations of diagnostic studies of key implementing
agencies have been incorporated in the design of assistance programs, several of which have already been
initiated. Since November 1992, the ODA-funded "twinning" arrangement, has been helping SWSB to
tackle operational, financial, and organizational problems and to plan its restructuring into the newly
established SWSB.  A follow-up UNDP technical assistance program has also assisted with the
establishment of SNHB. In light of the institutional development needs identified during project
preparation, the urban development program was restructured to implement infrastructure and housing
development in three phases, and to place major emphasis on continued capacity building in the first
phase, the proposed project. Achievement of performance targets during the proposed project will
determine the scope and timing of the second phase of the Government's long term urban development
program.
2.5    Environmental considerations are an integral part of infrastructure design (para. 4.5). Contract
packaging will facilitate participation of the local construction industry and increase local emplovment
opportunities.
2.6    Beneficiary involvement. Key project beneficiaries, i.e. current residents of informal settlements
to be upgraded under the project, have been closely involved in project design.  Socioeconomic
information about the beneficiaries, obtained through a Land and Housing Market Study was used to
structure the participation process to ensure equitable representation of all groups. A Community Liaison
Task Force was established. The Task Force is chaired by a Community Liaison Officer in the Project
Coordination Unit in MHUD whose sole task is to promote beneficiary involvement in the project. A
series of meetings, convened by community leaders were held prior to and during preliminary engineering
design to engage residents in discussions of service options and costs and placement of roads, services,
community facilities. In depth consultations with beneficiaries were also initiated through the use of focus
groups. The participating communities have since appointed Project Steering Committees who are
working with the implementing agencies and design engineers in the detailed design phase. This
arrangement will continue through project implementation.
C.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.7    Bank support to Swaziland has been relatively limited; the last Bank loan was in 1985. A 1993
Public Expenditure Review, focused on the Government's role in promoting private sector development,
confirmed that poor physical infrastructure and a shortage of skilled manpower, particularly in the public
sector, are increasingly constraining private sector growth. These issues are of particular concern in
urban areas. The Government has specifically requested Bank support for preparation and implementation
of the proposed project and has taken steps to deal with the politically sensitive land issue. During project



9
preparation, the Bank, based on its substantial experience with similar issues in other countries, has been
able to assist the Government in identifying sector issues and constraints and initiating actions, such as
institutional strengthening and policy development, to address areas of concern. By supporting the
implementation effort, the Bank will be in a position to further assist the Government in carrying out its
long-term strategy for development of private sector led urban housing and infrastructure which
emphasizes sustainability, cost recovery and affordability.
D.    Objectives
2.8    The proposed project represents the first phase of a long term urban development program aimed
at increasing the delivery and effectiveness of urban management services and improving living conditions
of low income urban households. The project, to be implemented FY 94/95- 97/98, would: (a) provide
a basis for sustainable urban development through emphasis on policy reform, institutional development,
pilot land reform, participatory development, and housing solutions for moderate and low income urban
households; and (b) address critical infrastructure needs (water, sanitation, waste disposal and roads).
E.    Status of Preparation
2.9    The first phase of project preparation was initiated under a Bank-administered Japanese grant
which financed feasibility studies for the physical project components.  Other studies included a
preliminary assessment of the institutional capacity of all implementing agencies and government
departments that would be involved in the project as well as an organizational review of the city councils.
The second phase of project preparation has been partially financed by the Bank through two PPFs. It
involved (i) finalizing the physical investment program through to preparation of bidding documents; (ii)
in-depth assessment of the capacity of implementing and supporting institutions; and (iii) helping
implementing agencies to prepare institutional action plans.  Detailed design of infrastructure and
preparation of bidding documents are substantially completed with the exception of contracts for on-site
infrastructure and for facilities where land acquisition is still pending.
F.    Description
2.10   Project components would include: (1) policy and institutional reform (US$4.2 million, 10% of
total project base cost); (2) rehabilitation and expansion of city roads and services including relocation
of power lines, and development of solid waste facilities (US$9.3 million, 21% of total project base cost);
(3) rehabilitation and expansion of the water and sewerage services (US$19. 1 million, 43 % of total project
base cost); (4) residential housing sites including on-site infrastructure (US$7.6 million, 17% of total
project base cost); and (5) project implementation assistance (US$2.5 million, 6% of total project base
cost). The project also includes US$1.5 million to refinance two Bank PPFs. The total cost of technical
assistance included in the project excluding contingencies is US$7.3 million. This includes US$0.4
million for policy support, US$3.8 million for institutional development, US$2 million for implementation
assistance, US$0.6 million for a water loss reduction program for SWSC and US$0.5 million for
preliminary design of the next phase of the urban development program. Activities complementary to the
project include the provision of land for community facilities and housing finance. A detailed project
description, including an elaboration of the technical assistance and training component, is provided in
Annex 2.1 and summarized below.
2.11   Policy and Institutional Reform (US$4.2 million). This component would continue efforts initiated
during the course of project preparation to improve the policy and institutional framework.



10
2.12   Policy Development and Review of Legislation. Government's Housing Policy document and its
statement of Urban Sector Policy, outline existing sector policies and areas where action is required.
MHUD is tackling some of the outstanding policy issues prior to the start of project implementation with
emphasis on issues critical to the success of other project components. Ongoing policy and legislative
activities include:
(a)    definition of policies and procedures to govern community liaison, allocation of land in
informal settlements, design and pricing of plots for sale on the basis of full cost
recovery, and relocation and compensation policies and procedures.
(b)    revision of the Rating Act. The new Act allows for regular updating of valuation rolls
by the City Councils, facilitates collection of property taxes and allows for rating of
government property.  Enactment of the new Rating Act is a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 5.2); and
(c)    preparation of a long term leasehold agreement for SNL to be incorporated in Urban
areas. GOS approval of the leasehold agreement for SNL is a condition of loan
effectiveness (para.5.2).
2.13   During project implementation, this sub-component of the project would support further policy
and legislative reform required to achieve a well functioning urban sector in the medium term. Funding
would be provided for short term assignments by appropriate specialists where required to carry out the
following:
(a)    definition of an Urban Government Policy which, building on the new Rating
Act, will clearly define the framework within which local authorities will operate
particularly with regard to central government subventions and commercialization
of operations (para 3.13);
(b)    review and modification of sector legislation/regulations governing physical
planning and development control, including the Building, Human Settlements
Authority, Urban Government, Town Planning, and Crown Land Acts;
(c)    building on experience with the pilot projects on SNL included in the proposed
project, development of urban and peri-urban land policies including definition
of a systematic process by which SNL can be efficiently and equitably
incorporated into urban areas;
(d)    assessment of the feasibility of establishing a secondary mortgage market to
increase funds available for housing finance and to encourage commercial banks
to diversify into mortgage lending; and
(e)    developing a housing policy implementation plan.
Terms of reference (TORs) for the studies referenced above that will be implemented during the first year
of project implementation were discussed during loan negotiations and will be included in the project
implementation manual.



I1
2.14  Institutional Support and Development. This sub-component of the project aims to increase the
long-term effectiveness and efficiency of sector institutions, in particular. financial management and
operations and maintenance capacity. In addition, where gaps have been identified, it would help to build
the project implementation capacity of key executing agencies and other supporting institutions. All
training and technical assistance (TA) have been designed to maximize utilization of local and regional
human and institutional resources. TORs for technical assistance and training programs will be included
in the project implementation manual. Over the four year project implementation period an estimated 215
person-months of long-term technical assistance will be provided of which about 90 person-months would
be intermittent input by local and regional specialists and about 40 person-months would be foreign
technical assistance. (Annex 2. 1, Attachment A). The total costs of long term TA is equivalent to about
US$1.3 million or 30% of the total TA cost for the institutional and policy component; TORs for long
term positions will emphasize skills transfer. Assistance programs for specific agencies are as follows:
(a)    MHUD.  To help build a cadre of trained/experienced planning professionals in
Swaziland and support long term capacity building, this sub-component will fund degree
training for two planners in the physical planning department of MHUD (already
underway), regional workshops and study tours. This component would also fund project
workshops and a Technical Support Unit (TSU), that will help build project coordination
and management capacity of MHUD's Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and assist with
the capacity building efforts of project implementation agencies. The unit will be staffed
primarily with part-time local and regionally-based specialists and will include a project
management specialist, an infrastructure engineer, an institutional/training specialist,
financial management specialists, a sociologist and an urban specialist.
(b)    Mbabane and Manzini City Councils.  Assistance will be provided through the
International City/County Managers Association (ICMA) to strengthen management
capabilities and decision making processes in the City Councils. The ICMA will also
help the councils to identify twinning associations to provide support to the councils in
operations and maintenance, planning and building control, landfill management, and
manpower development and to help develop comprehensive training programs. Areas to
be covered by annual training programs include job cost control, planned maintenance,
equipment maintenance, management skills and personnel management.
(c)    SNHB. A continuing program of technical assistance to improve project and financial
management, human resources development and business administration will be funded
by UNDP. Funding for staff training, including regional workshops and study tours will
be provided by SNHB.
(d)    SWSC. As a follow up to the current ODA funded twinning arrangement, short term
experts and overseas attachments would be provided for SWSC staff.  This sub-
component of the proposed project also includes regionally-sourced supervisory/technical
training for SWSC staff and automation of accounting/MIS systems.
(e)    Supporting Agencies. With the increase in the annual number of cadastral surveys and
deeds registration envisaged as a result of the urban project, the Surveyor General's office
and the Registrar General's office both need to increase their capacity. A qualified
surveyor would be contracted to help the Surveyor General's office co-ordinate land
survey activities and train counterpart staff. Local and regionally-sourced technical



12
assistance would be provided for the Registrar of Deeds to assist with project-related
deeds examination and registration. An Environmental Management Advisor would also
be funded for the Swaziland Environmental Authority (SEA) to help build its capacity to
carry out environmental monitoring.
2.15   Rehabilitation and Expansion of City Roads and Services ( US$9.3 million equivalent). Both City
Councils have underfunded road maintenance; equipment for solid waste and road maintenance is also
inadequate and unsanitary operations are resulting in considerable pollution in the vicinity of existing solid
waste sites. This component therefore aims to rehabilitate existing city roads, develop new solid waste
sites in Mbabane and Manzini and provide vehicles and equipment to improve operations and
maintenance. Specific sub-components include the following:
(a)   roads and drainage - rehabilitation, upgrading and extension of roads - about 4.8 km
(Mbabane) and about 6.3 km (Manzini) together with improved drainage and a road
maintenance program to increase carrying capacity and service life. The road network
will be expanded to provide access to new solid waste disposal sites and housing
settlements to be upgraded under the project;
(b)    solid waste disposal - new waste disposal sites will be developed away from residential
areas and the existing tipping sites refurbished. In addition, vehicles and equipment will
be provided for both Mbabane and Manzini to improve operational efficiency. The
proposed solid waste disposal site in Manzini is on SNL. Acquisition of land required
is a condition of disbursement for the solid waste disposal civil works contract for
Manzini and for solid waste equipment contracts (para. 5.3);
(c)    power supply - relocation of about 15 km of power lines and upgrading of about 4 km
of 11 Kv feeders (Mbabane) and relocation of about 7 km of power lines and upgrading
of about 4 km of 11 Kv feeders (Manzini). This will provide lighting to all major
citywide roads to be upgraded under the project and extend service to upgraded housing
settlements.
2.16   Rehabilitation and Expansion of Water and Sewerage Services (US$19.1 million). Inadequate
sewerage facilities in Swaziland are a major source of environmental and health problems. Waste loads
to the existing treatment works in both Mbabane and Manzini are 10 or more times higher than the design
capacities of these works. To reduce the negative environmental impacts of the discharge of barely treated
effluent into waterways and contribute to raising health standards, this project component would fund the
rehabilitation of existing sewage treatment plants and the construction of new facilities in Mbabane and
Manzini. The water supply network would also be rehabilitated and the existing leak detection program
expanded. The network would also be expanded to accommodate the requirements of low income housing
sites to be upgraded under the project and to accommodate overall growth in demand. Specific project
components include the following:
(a)    Water Supply: to provide for the projected increased water requirements, a new raw
water intake and pumping station will be built together with about 6.8 km rising mains
from the intake to the treatment works, extensions to the Woodlands water treatment
plant, a new booster pump station at Checkers, a 3.2 Ml service reservoir in Mahwalala
and about 4.5 km distribution mains (Mbabane). A 3 Ml reservoir coupled with about
6 km reticulation will be provided for Manzini and a water loss reduction program (leak



13
detection and mains replacement) implemented in the two cities to reduce system losses.
A parallel KfW-funded project for the Matsapha Industrial estate, will also rehabilitate
and expand water supply for project areas in Manzini (Annex 2.1).
(b)    Sewerage and Sewage Treatment: to relieve the serious overload on and enhance the
level of treatment in some of the existing waste water treatment plants, facilities will be
refurbished and new facilities together with sewage outfalls funded under the project. In
Mbabane, the facilities will include the construction of new sewage treatment works,
rehabilitation of the Ghobolo ponds for treatment of waste water from Msunduza,
construction of about 7.2 km of outfall (Southern outfall) and about 2.5 km of sewers.
Manzini will be provided with new sewage treatment works-- about 12.5 km of outfall
(9 km Southern outfall and 3.5 km Western outfall) and about 2 km of sewers. The
existing Quarantine and Zakhele ponds will be decommissioned and the sites rehabilitated
once the new works have been constructed and commissioned. The proposed sites for the
two new sewage treatment facilities for both Mbabane and Manzini are on SNL.
Acquisition of required land for sewage treatment facilities in Mbabane and Manzini is
a condition of loan effectiveness (para 5.3).
2.17   Residential Housing Sites Including On-Site Infrastructure (US$7.6 million). This component
would upgrade on-site infrastructure consisting of roads, footpaths, drainage, water supply, sanitation
(including sewers), communal structures such as water points, wash areas, refuse collection points, street
lighting and landscape works for about 5000 informal urban housing sites including about:
-      1350 existing homesteads, 430 in-fill residential and 80 non-residential plots in Msunduza,
Mbabane;
-      730 existing homesteads, 1050 in-fill residential and 50 non-residential plots in Nkwalini,
Mbabane;
-      160 existing homesteads, 310 in-fill residential and 30 non-residential plots in Moneni,
Manzini;
-      Provision for the servicing of 500 plots in the remaining section of Nkwalini, Mbabane
and 300 plots in a portion of Mhobodleni, a "greenfield" site on Swazi Nation land,
Manzini.
2.18   Plot sizes in upgrading areas vary considerably, from a minimum of 200 to a maximum of 750
square meters, because of differences in terrain and patterns of existing settlements. Every effort has been
made to accommodate existing settlements and to ensure through adjustment in service standards that plot
costs are affordable to existing households. Plot allocation criteria, plot pricing policies, and resettlement
and compensation policies have been developed that reflect (i) the concerns of affected communities; (ii)
the need to minimize resettlement; and (iii) the need to ensure cost recovery and profitability for the
implementing agency, SNHB. Community ownership and commitment is crucial to successful
implementation; SNHB will mobilize at each upgrading site only after it has received firm commitment
(deposits) for 80% of available plots. Plot allocation criteria give priority to existing owner/occupiers
and households to be relocated to facilitate construction of on-site facilities while taking into account the
extended family structures prevailing in the project areas. A house-to-house survey will be carried out
prior to completion of final design to determine the affordability of actual plots for existing residents and



14
to adjust plot sizes to the extent feasible. In-fill plots will be assigned to existing residents according to
priority pools and affordability criteria. Plots not allocated to existing residents would be sold through
public tender. Limited resettlement outside the project area is expected. During negotiations it was
agreed that GOS would ensure that the project is carried out in accordance with its resettlement and
compensation policy (para. 5.4). Submission of resettlement and compensation plans satisfactory to the
Bank is a condition of disbursement for each upgrading site to be financed by the Bank (para. 5.3).
During negotiations it was agreed that, prior to the start of construction, resettlement and compensation
plans satisfactory to the Bank would be prepared for each upgrading site including those where SNHB will
mobilize after the completion of disbursement of Bank funds (para. 5.4).
2.19   Project Implementation Assistance (US$2 million).  This component will fund local and
regionally-sourced engineers and technicians to assist with supervision of investment contracts. It also
includes provisions for preliminary layout of areas to be included in the next phase of the Government's
urban development program.
G.    Activities Complementary to the Project
2.20   Activities complementary to the project include construction of community facilities and provision
of financing by private banking institutions to project beneficiaries for plot purchase and home
improvements.
2.21   Community Facilities. An estimated E 10 million (US$3.0 million equivalent) will be required
for community facilities in FY 97/98 and FY 98/99. The facilities envisaged comprise buildings such as
schools, clinics, police posts, post offices and community halls. While sites have been designed for these
community facilities, no buildings have been designed or identified. This will be the responsibility of the
relevant Government agencies. The PCU and the City Councils will liaise with relevant Government
agencies during project implementation to ensure construction of site specific infrastructure and
communities facilities are co-ordinated.
2.22   Housing Finance. Financing of about E 43 million (US$13 M equivalent) would be provided by
the private sector for plot purchase, home improvements and construction of new housing in low-income
settlements. SBS will provide both traditional mortgage financing, estimated at about E 38 million, as well
as smaller non-conventional loans for existing households in the project area who would not normally
qualify under traditional banking standards due mainly to the informal nature of their income (see para.
3.20).
H.    Project Cost
2.23   The total project cost is estimated at E186 million (US$51.5 million equivalent), including
physical and price contingencies, but net of duties and taxes and with foreign exchange comprising 68 %.
A summary of estimated project costs is provided in Table 2.1 and a detailed cost table in Annex 2.2.
Cost estimates are based in part on detailed and partly on preliminary designs of facilities, local and
regional construction experience, and recent quotations for equipment and vehicles. Base prices are based
on current prices as of December 1993. Physical contingencies are estimated at US$3.5 million or about
8 % of base costs. Price contingencies are estimated at US$3.8 million or about 8 % of baseline costs plus
physical contingencies. Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar terms, based on international
inflation rates estimated at 2.5% for 1994 through 1998.



15
Table 2.1 Project Cost Estimates
(USS million)
LOCAL   FOREIGN         TOTAL
A. POLICY& INST. REFORM
Policy Dev./Legislation Rev.                                         0.1          0.3         0.4
Institutional Support                                                1.1          2.7         3 .8
Sub-Total                                                            1.2          3.0         4.2
B. REHAB. & EXP. OF RDS & SVC.
Rds & Drainage                                                       0.6          1.3         1.9
Rds M aintenance                                                     0.8          0.8         1.6
Solid Waste Disposal sites                                           2.2          1.4         3.6
Solid Waste Disposal Equipment                                                    1.5         1.5
Electrical Reticulation                                              0 2          0.4         0.6
Land Compensation                                                    0.1          0.0         0.1
Sub-total                                                            3.9          5.4         9.3
C. REHAB. & EXP. WTR. & SEW. SVC
Water Service                                                        0.8          4.0         4.8
Sewer Service                                                        2.6         11.0        13.6
Water Loss Reduction                                                 0.1          0.5         0.6
Land Compensation                                                    0.1          0.0         0.1
Sub-total                                                            3.6         15.5        19.1
D. RES. HSG. SITES & ON-SITE INF.
O n-Site Infrastructure                                              3.4          3 0         6.4
Land Compensation                                                    1.2          0.0         1.2
Sub-total                                                            4.6          3.0         7.6
E. PROJECT PREPARATION
Project Supervision                                                 0.6           1.4         2.0
Other                                                               0.1           0.4        0.5
Sub-total                                                            0.7          1.8         2.5
F. PPF Refinancing                                                   0.0          1.5         1.5
TOTAL BASE COST                                                     14.0         30.2        44.2
Phy sical Contingencies                                              1.1          2.4        3.5
Price Contingencies                                                  1.2          2.6        3.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                  16.3         35.2        51.5
I.      Financing Plan
2.24    The project financing plan is presented in Annex 2.3. The proposed Bank loan of US$29 million
would finance about 56.3 % of the total project cost, net of taxes or the equivalent of 82 % of the estimated
foreign exchange cost of the project. Financing for the remaining 43.7% of total project cost would be
provided by GOS (28.5%), ODA/UNDP (1.8%), implementing agencies (12.8%) and other cofinanciers
to be identified (0.5%). In the event that co-financing is not identified, GOS will finance the additional
cost. During negotiations assurances were obtained that GOS and implementing agencies will make
adequate budgetary provisions for their share of project costs (para. 5.4).



16
J.    Flow of Funds and On-Lending Tenrns
2.25   The proceeds of the IBRD loan will be made available to GOS for a period of 20 years, including
5 years grace, at the standard variable Bank interest rate. US$24.6 million or about 85% of the loan
would be passed on to the implementing agencies on the following terms and conditions:
(a)    US$17. 1 million equivalent would be passed on to SWSC; US$11.8 million as a loan for
a period of 18 years with 5 years grace and US$5.4 million as a grant to assist with
funding of sewage treatment facilities.
(b)    US$3.6 million equivalent would be provided to the Mbabane City Council for the
purchase of solid waste equipment and development of a new solid waste disposal site;
US$2.2 million equivalent as a loan for a period of 18 years with 5 years grace and
US$1.4 million as a grant.
(c)    US$1.9 million equivalent would be on-lent for a period of 18 years with 5 years grace
to Manzini City Councils for the purchase of solid waste equipment and development of
solid waste disposal sites.
(d)    US$2.0 million of the Bank loan would be on-lent to SNHB for a period of six years with
3 years grace. Financing provided would be used for on-site infrastructure for upgrading
sites. Funds recovered from sale of plots would be used to finance subsequent upgrading
contracts.
2.26  In all cases the foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOS. Subsidiary loans would have a
variable interest rate, equivalent to inflation plus two percentage points. The signing of subsidiary loan
agreements between GOS and SWSC, SNHB, and Mbabane and Manzini City Councils is a condition of
loan effectiveness (para. 5.2). GOS would provide counterpart financing for SWSC: US$5.7 million
equivalent as a mix of loan and grant funds, and US$4.4 million of grant and loan financing to the
Mbabane and Manzini City Councils for rehabilitation and expansion of city roads and counterpart
finrtancing for construction of solid waste facilities.



17
K.      Procurement
2.27    A summary of project procurement arrangements is provided in Table 2.2 below:
Table 2.2 Project Procurement Arrangements (US$ '000)
Procurement Method
Project Element             Intemational            Local
Competitive          Competitive
Bidding              Bidding          Other      N.B.F.          Total
1. Civil Works
(a) Citywide
-Mbabane                   17,813.7              1,205.3                      717.4         19,736.4
(11,121.3)            (857.8)                                   (11,979.1)
-Manzini                   11,162.5              369.6                                      11,532.1
(7,791.2)             (314.2)                                    (8,105.4)
(b) Site Specific
-Mbabane                   3,089.4               1,972.1                     1,210.5        6,272.0
(2,018.4)                                                       (2,018.4)
-Manzini                    365.7                 572.9                       365.7         1,304.3
2. Goods (Equipment)
(a) Mbabane                  797.7                                                            797.7
(797.7)                                                         (797.7)
(b) Manzini                  1,030.7                                                          1,030.7
(1,030.7)                                                       (1,030.7)
3. Consultants' services, & tmg.
(a) Policy & Inst. Reform
-Policy Support                                                      403.6                      403.6
-Inst. Strengthening                                                4,043.5                    4,043.5
(1,684.7)                 (1,684.7)
(b) Water loss reduction
Program
-Mbabane                                                          389.1                      389.1
(330.7)                   (330.7)
-Manzini                                                          389.1                      389.1
(330.7)                   (330.7)
(c) Project Supervision                                                  2,152.2                    2,152.2
(743.1)                   (743.1)
(d) Phase 11 Preparation                                                  564.1                      564.1
(479.5)                   (479.5)
(e) Project Preparation
-PPF Refinancing                                                     1.500.0                    1,500.0
(1,500.0)                 (1,500.0)
4. Miscellaneous
- Land Compensation                                                               1,417.6        1,417.6
TOTAL COST                            34,259.7             4,119.9          9,441.6     3,711.2       51,532.4
(22,759.3)           (1,172.0)        (5,068.7)                 (29,000.0)
Note: All figures include contingencies, and figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the Bank.
N.B. F. (Not Bank Financed)



18
2.28   During negotiations agreement was reached that procurement under the project will be carried out
in accordance with the arrangements summarized below (para 5.4).
2.29   Goods and Works. Procurement under the proposed project for goods and works will be in
accordance with the Guidelines under IBRD loans and IDA credits (May 1992). During preparation, and
confirmed during negotiations, it was agreed that all procurement of goods and civil works (except for
those noted below), whether subject to international competitive bidding (ICB) or to locally advertised
competitive bidding (LCB), shall be done using the Bank's standardized bidding documents. Goods and
works planned for procurement under the project have been grouped into 24 bid packages including 7
smaller civil works contracts (below US$800,000), one design and construct package using the Institute
of Civil Engineers conditions of contract to be financed by GOS, 12 large civil works contracts (above
US$800,000, one goods contract for solid waste equipment (US$1 .8M), and three procurement packages
for small labdr-based works (para. 2.31) to be undertaken on site specific projects. As detailed in Annex
2.4, Bank financing will be provided for 13 of the 24 discrete contract packages, equivalent to 58% of
the total value of goods and works. Electrical works, which will not be financed from the loan, will be
carried out by SEB using force account.
2.30   LCB procedures in Swaziland were reviewed during appraisal and found to be inconsistent in the
area of length of the bidding period, preferences, bracketing, registration requirements, insurance
requirements, etc. Agreement was reached during negotiations that LCB procedures will be carried out
in accordance with Bank guidelines (para. 5.4) which include public advertisement with adequate time
frame provided for bidders to respond, public bid opening, clearly stated evaluation criteria and award
to the lowest evaluated bidder.
2.31   Labor-based Contracts. Site specific areas to be upgraded include portions that are very steep and
densely populated making the use of normal heavy construction machinery unsuitable. In addition, the
service levels are comparatively low, resulting in small service pipe sizes, etc. It will, therefore, be
appropriate to use a combination of conventional and labor/community based methods of construction for
this category of development in order to (i) maximize the participation of, and thus benefit to local
communities that are paying for the upgraded and new plots; and (ii) develop local contracting skills by
providing opportunities for small contractors and entrepreneurs. A small labor-based works form of
contract, referred to as "Small Works Contract" has been developed for provision of minor works
(footpaths, pit latrines, fencing, tree planting and community structures) in the site specific development
projects. This would be utilized for contracts below US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1.6M
to be financed by SNHB. Community involvement in the construction of these structures is proposed;
the limited size of the intended contracts makes them unlikely to interest large contractors because of high
mobilization costs and lends them to construction by the informal sector. The risk of employing small
contractors is mitigated by the simplicity of the work, the simplified nature of the proposed contract form
and the fact that payment would only become due on the satisfactory completion of a unit of work, the
rates for which are fixed by an independent consultant. The proposed labor-based contracting will involve
competitive bidding using the proposed small works form of contract. The procurement process was
discussed during project preparation and found to be satisfactory.
2.32   Consultant Services.  Consultant services will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines in "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing
Agency", August 1981. Such services will be procured for policy review and institutional strengthening
including workshops and training as detailed in Annex 2. 1, undertaking a water loss reduction program
for SWSC, and to assist with implementation.



19
2.33   Threshold and prior review procedures for Bank financed contracts would be as follows:
(a)    Bid packages or contracts for civil works estimated to cost more than US$800,000
equivalent and all bid packages for goods, would be procured following International
Competitive Bidding procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. These would
include most citywide infrastructure bid packages and the contract for vehicles and
equipment for solid waste management.
(b)    Civil works contracts of US$800,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.2 million equivalent, would be awarded through local competitive bidding
procedures. Foreign bidders would have the opportunity to compete.
(c)    Bank financed contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or
more, and contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more,
representing all Bank- financed goods and civil works, would be subject to the Bank's
prior review in accordance with paras. 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.
(d)    Contracts for consulting services exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms
and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Procurement information will be collected and recorded in quarterly progress reports (para. 2.45).
L.    Project Management
2.34   Project preparation is currently managed by the PSC comprised of representatives from all
agencies and Government departments involved in the project and chaired by the Principal Secretary of
MHUD. The PSC is supported by a PCU within MHUD; reporting directly to the Principal Secretary.
Sub-Committees of the PSC have been established to address specific aspects of project preparation.
These arrangements will continue during project implementation. The PCU, to be established as a
department within the Ministry, will coordinate and supervise project implementation. Its responsibilities
would include:
(a)    coordination of implementation by other executing agencies, monitoring key targets and
indicators and evaluation of overall project performance;
(b)    management and coordination of institutional strengthening (training and technical
assistance), resettlement and compensation, review of environmental monitoring;
community participation, and monitoring project impacts;
(c)    identification of implementation gaps and ensuring that appropriate action is taken;
confirmation of the availability of counterpart project funding; and
(d)    coordination of procurement, preparation of consolidated project accounts, management
of the special account and disbursement of funds, preparation of quarterly progress
reports to be submitted to the Bank.



20
2.35   Agreement was reached during appraisal on the need to strengthen the PCU to enable it to
discharge the above-mentioned responsibilities. It was agreed that the PCU should, at a minimum, have
a full time project coordinator with a rank equivalent to that of an under secretary, a senior planning
officer a community liason officer and an accountant. The TSU (para. 2.14) would support the PCU,
placing emphasis on capacity building of the PCU as well as of the implementing agencies. Terms of
reference for the TSU and for construction supervision engineers will be included in the project
implementation manual.  Appointment of key staff of the PCU and the TSU with experience,
qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of loan effectiveness (para.
5.2). During negotiations agreement was reached that GOS would maintain the PSC and the organizational
structures, functions and staffing of the PCU and TSU in a manner satisfactory to the Bank throughout
project implementation (para 5.4).
M.    Project Implementation
2.36   Project preparation is well advanced and detailed designs and bidding documents are available for
most of the civil works components. Special attention has been given during project preparation to the
implementation, operations and maintenance and financial capacity of implementing agencies. Several
assistance programs will be in place prior to loan effectiveness. A project launch workshop, as well as
annual and a mid-term review will further enhance project implementation. Annual reviews, with
participants from implementing agencies, supporting institutions, including SBS and SEB, central
government agencies represented on the PSC and/or responsible for construction of community facilities,
and community representatives will assess (i) implementation status of the policy, institutional and
physical investment components of the project -- detailed follow up action plans will be prepared for the
next year of project implementation; (ii) the effectiveness of project implementation arrangements,
agreeing changes where required; and (iii) actual performance compared to project and institutional
targets and institutional action plans. The required Government budgetary commitment for the following
year, including funding for community facilities, and the status of (i) implementation of community
facilities; and (ii) provision of mortgage and home improvement loans for project beneficiaries will also
be assessed. Follow-up action plans will include measures to implement the agreed recommendations
arising from the policy and legislative review. In addition to the above, the mid-term review will assess
the appropriateness of project objectives and components and make adjustments where necessary to ensure
project sustainability. During negotiations agreement was reached that (i) the project launch workshop
would be held within two months of loan effectiveness; (ii) thereafter, GOS together with the Bank will
carry out annual project reviews by July 31st of each fiscal year and a comprehensive midterm review
by December 31, 1996; (iii) GOS and project executing agencies will implement the recommendations
of these reviews as agreed with the Bank (para. 5.4).
2.37   Details of contract packages and their implementation schedules are provided in Annex 2.4.
Implementation of the policy and institutional component of the project will be managed and/or
coordinated by the PCU. Specific support for executing agencies will be managed by the agencies. The
policy component will be managed by MHUD. Implementation of citywide infrastructure components of
the proposed project will be undertaken by the agencies that will operate and maintain the completed
infrastructure works. Site specific development which involves a wide range of infrastructure service
provision as well as estate development and community liaison skills, will be implemented by the SNHB
with the support of the City Councils and the Community Liaison Task force. Completed infrastructure
will be "handed over" by SNHB to the operating and maintaining agency in accordance with guidelines,
agreed with each agency, that will be included in the project implementation manual.



21
2.38   The five implementing agencies with support from  consultants as required, will have lead
responsibility for the following individual construction contracts:
-       SNHB: site specific development projects - 8 bid packages;
-       SWSB: citywide water and sewerage - 7 bid packages;
-       Mbabane City Council: citywide roads, road maintenance, drainage, streetlighting and
solid waste - 5 bid packages;
-       Manzini City Council: citywide roads, road maintenance, drainage, streetlighting and
solid waste - 4 bid packages; and
-       SEB: electricity upgrading and relocation projects - 1 bid package as designed by SEB.
2.39   The responsibilities of project staff within each agency and of the supervisory engineers will be
specified in the project implementation manual. The table of contents of the project implementation
manual is provided in Annex 2.5. Completion of a project implementation manual satisfactory to the
Bank, is a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 5.2). Supervisory engineers together with implementing
agency staff would be responsible inter alia for ensuring compliance with specifications for works and
goods, adhering to construction schedules, maintaining project accounts and an accurate records of
activities, advising on training of staff to operate completed facilities, testing and commissioning of
completed works and preparing progress and other required reports.
N.      Disbursement
2.40   The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed in accordance with the allocation by
category shown in Table 2.3 over a period of six years although implementation is expected to be
completed in four years. The longer disbursement period is consistent with Bank experience with other
urban projects in Africa.
Table 2.3 Disbursement Allocation
CATEGORY                                     LOAN AMOUNT           % EXPENDITURE TO BE FINANCED
1. Civil Works
a) Solid Waste Disposal Sites
(i) Mbabane                                  2.3                           85%
(ii) Manzini                                 0.7                           85%
b) Water and Sewage                             14.3                          85%
c) On-Site Infrastructure                        1.7                          85%
2. Equipment                                       1.5                    100% of foreign costs
3. Consultants, TA, Training. Supervision of Works  2.7                          85%
4. PPF Refund                                      1.5                        As disbursed
5. Unallocated                                     4.3                        As disbursed
TOTAIL                                            29.0



22
2.41   For civil works contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent and for goods and services
valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent, disbursement would be made against statement of expenditures
(SOEs). Supporting documentation for these expenditures would be retained by the implementing agencies
and made available for review as requested by Bank supervision missions. To facilitate disbursements,
a special account will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank with an initial deposit of
US$800,000 representing an estimated average of four months' disbursements. The closing date for
disbursements will be December 30, 2001. A detailed disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 2.6.
Specific conditions of loan disbursement include the following:
(a)    For the solid waste disposal civil works contract for Manzini and solid waste equipment
contracts - MHUD's acquisition of land required for the Manzini solid waste disposal site
(paras 2.15 and 5.3); and
(b)    For on-site infrastructure for housing sites - submission of specific resettlement and
compensation plans (paras 2.18 and 5.3). Disbursements would be made against 85 % of
eligible expenditures up to a ceiling of US$2 million.
0.    Accounting and Auditing
2.42   Private sector external auditors carry out comprehensive audits of the four key implementing
agencies, SWSB, SNHB and the Mbabane and Manzini City Councils. This arrangement is satisfactory
to the Bank and will continue during project implementation. In response to the findings of various
diagnostic studies during project preparation, efforts have been made by Finance Department staff, with
some success, to improve the accuracy of financial statements and the timeliness of audit reports. With
the exception of Mbabane City Council, recent audit reports have been unqualified and have been
available within six months of the close of the fiscal year.
2.43   Among the key implementing agencies, Mbabane City Council needs to make the most
improvement in financial management. The audited report of the Council's FY92 financial statements
was completed ten months after the end of the fiscal year and the external auditor's opinion was qualified.
Assistance of accounting specialists has been provided to the Council to address issues raised by the
auditors. By the first year of project implementation, all agencies, including Mbabane, are expected to
be able to meet the Bank's audit requirements.
2.44   Consolidated project accounts will be prepared by the PCU for the overall project and by each
of the four principal implementing agencies for their component of the project. The project accounts
would identify all sources and uses of funds used to carry out project activities, including a detailed
account of the use of the proceeds of the Bank loan. During negotiations agreement was reached that two
copies of the audit reports of the consolidated project accounts, the special account and the financial
statements of SNHB, SWSC, and the Mbabane and Manzini City Councils would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of the fiscal year. The audit report of the consolidated project account
would also contain a separate opinion on the SOE procedure (para. 5.4).



23
P.    Bank Supervision and Reporting Requirements
2.45    Reports detailing the progress of project implementation will be submitted to the Bank quarterly:
the agreed reporting formats will be included in the project implementation manual. During negotiations
agreement was reached that GOS will adopt project reporting procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para.
5.4). The project will require close supervision particularly in the first two years of implementation. A
schedule of supervision missions and indication of expertise required for each mission is provided in
Annex 2.7. An estimated 16 staff weeks per annum would be required for field missions in FY 94/95
and FY 96/97. In addition to field supervision, about 3 staff weeks per annum would be required for
review of procurement documents in FY 94/95 and FY 95/96. A further 3 staff weeks would be required
per annum over the course of project execution for review of progress reports, financial reports and for
Bank support for project implementation.






24
CHAPTER 3: INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
AND SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT INITIATIVES
3.1    Strengthening institutional capacity, in particular, operations and maintenance and financial
management, is critical to project sustainability as well as to further urban sector development. The
capacity building initiated during preparation will be continued during project implementation. This
chapter discusses key problem areas, proposed action plans and expected performance targets during the
period of project implementation. During negotiations agreement was reached that agreed institutional
action plans and performance targets would be reflected in the subsidiary loan agreements between GOS
and each project implementing agency. The agencies would implement these institutional action plans in
accordance with agreed schedules making adjustments where necessary in line with recommendations
arising from the project launch workshop, annual project reviews and the mid term review (para. 5.4).
3.2    An important objective of the project is to ensure that the serviced plots delivered and services
provided are affordable to low and moderate income groups; the intended project beneficiaries. At the
same time mechanisms need to be in place to allow sector institutions to recover the costs of provision
of services. Beneficiaries also need access to financing for purchase of plots and home improvements
construction. Affordability, mechanisms for cost recovery and sources of financing for target beneficiaries
are discussed further in this chapter.
A.    Swaziland Water and Sewerage Board
3.3    Operations and Maintenance Capacity. Lack of access to capital to upgrade and replace assets
and poor operations and maintenance have contributed to high levels of unaccounted for water, a
contributing factor to the poor financial performance discussed below. Problem areas such as (i) faulty
customer meters; (ii) defective equipment at sewage treatment and water treatment plants; and (iii) poor
vehicle availability are the result of a lack of systematic maintenance and little or no investment in recent
years in replacement and upgrading of the network. SWSB has already started to address problem areas
with the assistance of the twinning organization. A draft corporate plan prepared with their assistance
contains programs for upgrading, maintaining and improving the performance of SWSB's assets.
3.4   Financial Performance. Details of SWSB's historical and projected financial performance are
provided in Annex 3.2. For the past five years the Board has operated at a loss due mainly to:
(a)   its inability to levy tariffs in line with inflation. Tariff increases have neither been
approved in full nor timely. With the resulting deterioration in its cash flow and financial
position, SWSB has been unable to repay debt or pay salaries without Government
assistance. By end FY 92/93, SWSB owed Government more than E 30.4 million
(US$9.2 million equivalent) for debt servicing and salary support;
(b)   inadequate subvention from Government to cover recurrent and capital expenditures for
non-viable areas. SWSB cannot recover the cost of provision of service to most of the
smaller urban areas;
(c)    poor billing and collection procedures. This has contributed to SWSB's poor cash flow
position. There are a considerable number of faulty meters that are billed at the



25
minimum charge with no system in place for timely repair or replacement of these
meters. The billing system is also unreliable such that large corrections to recorded
revenue are frequently required and SWSB is unable to track and collect bad debts.
There has been some improvements as a result of intensive efforts by the Board to collect
rates. Outstanding debt fell from a high of 71 % of sales in FY87/88 to 59% in 1992, and
receivables outstanding from 275 to 185 days. However, more needs to be done;
(d)    inability to bill all water produced due to excessive water loss through the system. Water
is lost through leakage and illegal connections, the result of aged pipes and inefficient
operational procedures; and
(e)    lack of adequate internal controls over expenditure and over-staffing at lower levels in the
organization due to external control of personnel functions.
3.5    The experience of the last Bank project as well as the several diagnostic studies carried out during
project preparation have made it clear that the Board needs greater autonomy if it is to function
efficiently. At the same time it needs to be held accountable for sector performance, i.e., it should have
clear, easily monitored operational and financial performance targets to ensure greater emphasis on
operational efficiency and cost recovery.
3.6   Institutional Action Plans and Performance Targets.  SWSB's future performance is expected
to be significantly different with its transformation to an autonomous parastatal organization, financial
restructuring, greater emphasis on cost recovery, improved internal efficiency and clear policies governing
investment decisions. The capital
structure of the new corporation
reflects a write-off of E30.4 million   80,0W
of debt and accumulated arrears an    c
0 60,0
on-going tariff study is reviewing
options to revise the structure and
levels  of tariffs  for the  new
corporation  (SWSC).    Cabinet       = 20,00 
approval of a 50%  increase in        Lu
average tariff levels effective 1st          0           _   _ _
April 1995 was a condition of Board              94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99
presentation (para. 5.1).  During
negotiations agreement was reached                U Sbcn    El Totw pwatng  U Nt hxrmm/Acs
that for (i) FY 95/96 and FY 96/97,
GOS would provide a mix of real
tariff increases and subventions to
allow SWSC to cover all operating
costs and interest expense for the fiscal year and to achieve this target from FY 97/98 onwards without
real tariff increases or subventions (with the exception of subventions for the direct recurrent expenses
of the water supply schemes in Siteki and Nhlangano); (ii) from FY 95/96 onwards, SWSC would submit
to the Bank by July 31 st of the previous fiscal year, its updated five year financial forecasts and its budget
estimate and tariff and subvention proposal for the fiscal year, and (iii) for FY 95/96 and FY 96/97,
SWSC would consult with GOS and the Bank prior to incurring any new long-term debt. From FY 97/98
onwards, SWSC would maintain a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 (para. 5.4).



26
3.7    A draft corporate plan detailing action plans and performance targets has been developed for the
new corporation. A summary of key institutional actions and performance targets, were reviewed and
confirmed during loan negotiations. These key targets for expansion of service, internal efficiency and
financial performance are summarized in the Project Monitoring Indicators table provided in Annex 3.1.
Critical actions planned include reduction of staff per 1000 connections by at least 25 %, further increases
in collection efficiency and reducing unaccounted-for water by an additional 20% by FY97/98.
B.    Mbabane and Manzini City Councils
3.8    Operations and Maintenance Capacity. The two city councils have similar operational problems,
though to varying degrees:
(a)    antiquated equipment fleets and inadequate maintenance capacity e.g. shortage of
workshop equipment and lack of staff trained in heavy vehicle maintenance. This results
in long repair delays, suboptimal maintenance and low plant and equipment availability;
(b)    unsanitary operation of solid waste disposal sites. This is resulting in considerable
pollution in the site vicinities.
(c)    inadequate internal administrative and management systems. Ordering processes have
inadequate expenditure controls and do not facilitate accountability by department heads.
Job costing methods also need to be improved; and
(d)    Need to upgrade staff skills. This reflects the institution-wide need to review and enhance
the human resources base; both technical skills and supervisory capacity need
strengthening.
3.9    Financial Performance. In recent years, Mbabane City Council has reported persistent operating
deficits due mostly to:
(a)    inadequate rate revenues as a result of outdated valuation rolls. Estimated market values,
particularly for upper income areas, range between 600 - 1000% of existing rateable
values;
(b)    the council's lack of autonomy and insufficient emphasis on increasing rates to
compensate for inflation, or adjusting specific charges to cover the cost of services
provided;
(c)    exemption of GOS land in exchange for annual subventions. GOS subventions account
for only 4% of 1991/92 revenues although Government owned land represents 20% of
total land in Mbabane. Rates account for 78% of Mbabane's revenues;
(d)    lack of internal controls over expenditure growth mostly composed of staff emoluments
(83 % of FY 91/92 recurrent expenditure). Expenditure has grown faster (20 % p.a.) than
total revenues (18% p.a.) or inflation (12-15% p.a.). At the same time, maintenance
needs of existing infrastructure are underfunded; and



27
(e)    significant debt service commitments as a result of increased use of borrowing
(Mbabane's FY 92/93 overdraft stood at over 50% of rate revenues) and late loan
payments.
3.10   Although Manzini City Council has managed to post modest operating surpluses in all but one of
the past five years, this has been achieved by reducing expenditures rather than through revenue growth.
For instance, reviews indicate that road maintenance alone in Manzini is under-funded by about E 600,000
p.a. In comparison to its level of operations, it has a relatively smaller revenue base than Mbabane since
the Matsapha industrial estate (the location of the largest employers) is outside its boundaries. To a lesser
extent, Manzini has the same problems highlighted for Mbabane. The issue of inadequate revenue is
compounded by:
(a)    outdated valuation rolls; market values are estimated as 300% - 600% greater than current
rateable value;
(b)    lack of autonomy and little emphasis on revising and adjusting rates and other charges;
(c)    exclusion of GOS property from  rate charges.  However, the potential income is
moderate, since GOS does not have extensive holdings in Manzini; and
(d)    internal controls that, although adequate for current purposes, require enhancement and
reinforcement to ensure continued cost control.
3.11   Recent reviews have shown that if the Town Councils are to generate enough cash flow to support
routine operations and maintenance and debt service requirements,  they will require:  (i) greater
autonomy and increased emphasis on adjusting rates and charges to ensure financially sustainable
operations; (ii) greater emphasis on the cost-effectiveness of their operations; and (iii) improved
accounting and management information systems. Short term assistance has been provided to the councils
to strengthen accounting, budget preparation, and financial control systems and procedures. Appointing
local accounting specialists to provide the assistance outlined above was a prerequisite for project
appraisal.
3.12   Institutional Action Plans and Performance Targets. The councils have developed detailed action
plans and performance targets that were reviewed and confirmed during loan negotiations. Operational
indicators reflecting performance efficiency of road maintenance, workshop activities and solid waste
disposal, and financial performance indicators are included in the Project Monitoring Indicators table in
Annex 3.1. Areas covered in the institutional action plans include:
(a)    Revenue enhancement -- regular review and revision of rates and charges, inclusion of
GOS and parastatals property in the valuation rolls, improved billing and collection
efficiency.  Changes in the Rating Act have been drafted to facilitate rating of
Government property and collection of overdue accounts by the city councils.
(b)    Accountin, systems -- overhaul and improvement of financial information and control
systems. Areas to be strengthened include revenue collection controls, billing procedures,
internal audit procedures, data processing and management information systems;



28
(c)    Intemal Efficiency -- development and implementation of new personnel management
policies, restructuring of unprofitable services, establishment of road management and
maintenance systems;
(d)    Increased Autonomy -- The City Councils and GOS will agree an Urban Government
Policy Framework as the governing instrument of their relationship (para. 2.13); and
(e)    Strengthening management and upRgrading staff skills --- Assistance will be provided
through the International City/County Managers Association (ICMA) (para. 2.14).
3.13   The forecast financial performance of Mbabane and Manzini City Councils are provided in Annex
3.2. As a result of the revenue enhancement and expenditure control measures to be implemented as
outlined above, both councils are expected to generate sufficient internal cash to cover operations and
maintenance costs and debt service by the end of the project period. A critical assumption is that the
amendments to the Rating Act will be ratified to allow (i) inclusion of GOS properties in the valuation
rolls by FY95/96; (ii) strengthening of rates collection remedies to allow collection efficiencies of 75%;
and (iii) increased autonomy for the councils in setting rates. Other major assumptions are (i) rates and
fees will be increased regularly in line with inflation at a minimum; (ii) the Councils, through on-going
and planned assistance will establish financial and budgetary control procedures (overdraft facilities would
be limited to not more than four months average revenues); and (iii) the Councils would allocate most of
their annual capital grants between FY 95/96 and FY 98/99 to funding the investments included in the
proposed project. The above assumptions are consistent with detailed action plans developed by the
councils (para. 3.12); the underlying principles will be agreed between GOS and the Councils and
reflected in an Urban Government Policy framework (para 3.12), During negotiations agreement was
reached that (i) GOS and the Councils would agree an Urban Government Policy framework by February
1st 1995; (ii) the Councils would consult with the Government and the Bank prior to incurring any new
long-term debt obligation, and (iii) from FY 95/96 onwards GOS would ensure adequate adjustments to
solid waste disposal user charges to enable Mbabane and Manzini City Councils to cover operating costs,
including depreciation and interest expense. (para. 5.4).
C.    Swaziland National Housing Board
3.14   Since its establishment, SNHB has received considerable technical assistance and staff training
through a UNDP-financed Bank -executed technical assistance program designed to strengthen its
operational capacity. The program funded financial and technical advisors and training for SNHB staff.
This assistance helped SNHB to establish its project management unit but was less successful in building
its capacity to implement low income housing projects and to manage the larger volume of transactions
that would result from the proposed urban development project.
3.15   Financial Performance.   SNHB is currently operating at a surplus. In 1992 a write-off of
substantial loans undertaken by its predecessor, the Industrial Housing Company resulted in a net loss.
Despite its profitability, SNHB's financial performance four years after its establishment appears to be
worsening. Retum on capital employed declined from 4.1 % in 1991 to 1.3% in 1992 reflecting lower
profits and a revaluation of assets. Return on rental assets, about 3 %, has been poor; the result of rent
increases well below the rate of inflation. Profits from new developments fell from 20% in 1991 to 10%
in 1992. In 1993, SNHB experienced its first trading loss on property development; the result of (i)
inadequate throughput of development properties due to conveyancing delays; and (ii) a property pricing



29
system which did not accurately reflect costs and market prices.  Internal inefficiencies such as
weaknesses in cost accounting systems and contract management were also contributing factors.
3.16   Institutional Action Plan and Performance Targets. SNHB has prepared a draft corporate plan
reflecting planned institutional strengthening and proposed performance targets. Key actions relate to
delivery of low income housing sites, staff training, development of internal systems and financial
performance. Institutional action plans and performance targets were reviewed and confirmed at loan
negotiations. A second institutional support program, to be partially funded by UNDP, will assist SNHB
by funding periodic follow-up support and short term specialist assistance. Local and regionally-sourced
staff training, to be funded by SNHB, will emphasize financial management, cost control, sales &
marketing, computer skills, and project management. A GOS approved project document, addressing
SNHB's institutional support requirements was brought to loan negotiations.  During negotiations
agreement was reached that SNHB would implement the Institutional Support program utilizing technical
specialists, satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the agreed schedule and would make
adjustments where necessary in line with recommendations arising from the project launch workshop,
annual project reviews and the midterm review (para. 5.4).
D.    Sources of Financing for Project Beneficiaries
3.17   Swaziland Building Society (SBS). SBS, the primary source of conventional housing finance in
Swaziland, was established in 1962 under the Building Society Act of the same year. Its activities are
controlled by the Governor of the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS). The society employs 84 staff
members and is well managed and profitable. Over the past five years, SBS has had impressive growth.
Total assets increased from about E 39 million in FY 89 to E 138 million in FY 92/93; an annual average
growth rate of about 29%, considerably above inflation. At the same time SBS maintained sound
portfolio quality, high liquidity and high net income. Since the introduction of new capital adequacy
requirements in 1993, SBS has taken measures to improve capitalization through slower asset growth and
to improve profitability by accessing lower cost short-term funding.
3.18   SBS is interested in and committed to providing mortgage financing for project beneficiaries
despite its limited experience with processing high volume low value mortgages 1/. In anticipation of the
project, it has increased its mortgage handling capacity by introducing a computerized system,
streamlining application procedures, increasing the number of qualified staff and expanding its physical
premises. Its Board of Directors has agreed to a proposal to approve mortgage loans below E 50,000
on a no objection basis which is expected to significantly reduce loan processing time. Under a USAID
sponsored technical assistance, a Mortgage Portfolio Manager from the Central African Building Society
(Zimbabwe) visited Swaziland to provide input on the design of systems and procedures for high volume
low value mortgage lending. SBS staff have also visited Zimbabwe and South Africa to review similar
systems.
3.19   Given its current strong financial position and the on-going and planned changes in its mortgage
handling facilities, SBS is expected to be able to provide the conventional mortgage financing required
by project beneficiaries.  Mortgage loan requirements (for purchase of serviced sites and housing
1/ The average mortgage debt of the 1300 outstanding mortgages was equivalent to
E 77,000, well above the average loan size expected under the Urban Development Project
(UDP).



30
construction) is estimated at E 43 million (US$13 million) or an average of E 11 million annually.
Funding required by project beneficiaries is expected to range between E 2500 - E 22,000, for purchase
of serviced plots and home improvements. SBS has indicated that it is prepared to lower mortgage size
to E 5,000 and to commit E 10 million annually to financing for UDP project beneficiaries. In addition
it would also fund the proposed non-conventional loan scheme discussed below.
3.20    Non-Conventional Financing. Several recent studies of the financial sector in Swaziland have
found that (a) low income groups have very limited access to formal sector finance - while 75 % of low
income households have Bank accounts only 19% have ever secured formal credit; and (b) banks (other
than SBS and the Swaziland Development and Savings Bank) have a very low proportion of their assets
in housing finance. Of particular importance in the proposed project are the approximately 40% of
households on plots to be upgraded who would not qualify for conventional mortgages, due mainly to the
informal nature of employment of household members. SBS has determined that it can profitably lend
to this potential market given 99 year leaseholds as collateral and a commitment from Government to
guarantee 20% of any losses which might occur on resale of foreclosed properties. Government has
indicated its preliminary willingness to accept this limited risk sharing formula. The commercial banks
have also proposed a similar risk sharing arrangement which would allow them to enter the low income
housing market. While mobilization of commercial bank financing for low income housing will be pursued
during project implementation, SBS's commitment will be sufficient to ensure that adequate financing will
be available for all project beneficiaries. A letter of commitment from SBS to provide E 38 million
(US$11.9 million equivalent) of conventional and E 5 million (US$1.6 million equivalent) of non-
conventional financing for project beneficiaries over the four year project implementation period was
brought to loan negotiations.
Table 3.1 Cost Recovery Arrangements
Institution             Medium-High Income   j    Low Income
National Housing Board
- land                                   plot cost              plot cost
- on-site infrastructure
* capital                              plot cost               plot cost
*O&M                                   see below              see below
Water & Sewerage Board
- water
* capital (off-site)                    tariff             tariff (standpipes)
*O&M                                     tariff            tariff (standpipes)
- sewerage
* capital (off-site)                    tariff            plot cost (pit latrine)
*O&M                                     tariff                  fee
(desludging/disposal)
Councils
roads/drains
* capital (off-site)                     rates                  rates
*O&M                                     rates                  rates
solid waste
* capital                             fee (SWSC)                rates
*O&M                                  fee (SWSC)                rates
sewerage (desludging)                  fee(SWSC)                 fee
Swaziland Electricity Board
- electricity
* capital (on-site)                    plot cost               plot cost
* capital (off-site)                    tariff                  tariff
*O&M                                     tariff                 tariff



31
E.    Cost Recovery and Affordability
3.21   The project has been designed for full cost recovery. Rehabilitation and expansion of city-wide
infrastructure will be recovered through user charges and property taxes.  The costs of on-site
infrastructure for upgrading sites will be recovered through plot pricing. Table 3.1 summarizes cost
recovery arrangements for each project component. In the design of the site specific infrastructure a key
objective has been to ensure plot costs would be affordable to project beneficiaries. Baseline data on
household income from a 1992 survey was used to establish limits on infrastructure costs. Infrastructure
standards and plot size have been reduced in line with the income levels of target beneficiaries. The plot
pricing policy, included in the draft project implementation manual, provides for full cost recovery,
including the costs of construction finance and supervision and SNHB overhead costs and profit. Given
appropriate financing mechanisms as outlined in para. 3.20, upgrading plots are affordable to 90% of
households in the project area. Plots being upgraded, but occupied by existing residents, as well as those
plots on which existing residents are to be resettled will be priced as indicated above. Plots not allocated
to existing residents would be sold through public tender.



32
CHAPTER 4: THE PROJECT'S BENEFITS AND IMPACTS
A.    Project Benefits
4.1     The proposed project is a key element in the implementation of the Government's urban
development strategy aimed at providing planned maintenance, upgrading and gradual least-cost expansion
of the urban infrastructure within the overall macroeconomic context. The program will favor the lower
income groups in that the site-specific works are located in lower income areas. About five thousand new
property owners will be created thus stimulating the development of the housing market in Swaziland.
City-wide investments will provide access to services for the beneficiary communities and help improve
Swaziland's investment climate by relieving water and sanitation supply constraints.
4.2    Rehabilitation of targeted major transport routes and drainage systems in both cities will result
in improved road surfaces leading to better traffic flows, reduced damage to vehicles and reduced
environmental degradation caused by uncontrolled surface water flows. A total of about 11 km will be
upgraded to bitumen standard. In addition, access to the upgraded informal housing sites included in the
project will be much improved. The road maintenance sub-component will seek to alleviate the current
backlog in road maintenance and establish a basis for revitalization of municipal programs for routine
maintenance of infrastructure and equipment.
4.3    The city-wide water and sewerage infrastructure investments proposed under the project will yield
large social benefits to the residents of Mbabane and Manzini in general and improve the operational
efficiency of the existing systems. The anticipated increase in piped water available for end use will reach
about 1,400 megalitres per annum representing an increase of about 70% over present levels. New
sewerage treatment works to be constructed in both cities will address the urgent need to increase sewer
capacity. It is estimated that present sewage treatment capacity is less than 25 % of present demand. The
project will also support the acquisition of new disposal sites and purchase of collection equipment for
both Mbabane and Manzini to alleviate the ongoing solid waste disposal crisis.
4.4    Upgrading of four low-income residential areas (two in Mbabane and two in Manzini) will provide
a comprehensive package of communal facilities, potable water supply and sanitation, solid waste disposal,
improved road access and lighting for the residents of the communities targeted for upgrading. In
particular, the piped water supply will replace existing source and quality of water, i.e. untreated and
unreliable water from wells and springs located within the beneficiary communities. A significant
unquantifiable benefit will be the security of tenure that will be conferred on the residents through
purchase or lease of serviced plots.
B.    Environmental Impact
4.5    The project, an EA category B, is designed to alleviate environmental degradation in urban and
peri-urban areas by improving and expanding access to sanitation and upgrading informal settlements.
Environmental planning and assessment of environmental impacts have been an integral part of project
design.  In the early stages of project preparation, environmental specialists collected baseline
environmental data for alternative project sites, outlined strategic planning issues and prepared
environmental management guidelines for the design team. Environmental evaluations were carried out
of alternative locations for the water supply, the sewage treatment and solid waste disposal components



33
of the city-wide infrastructure. As a result, changes were made in the design criteria (particularly for the
sewage treatment component), options were eliminated because they were environmentally unacceptable
and further alternatives were investigated. The environmental evaluation of site specific housing sites,
resulted in the elimination of one proposed project site. In addition, the most sensitive areas of individual
sites were excluded from development and reserved for conservation areas.
4.6    The constant interaction between environmental and planning teams resulted in the development
of conceptual and preliminary design options with a lower level of negative environmental impact.
Environmental assessment reports for site specific and bulk infrastructure are provided in the project
implementation manual; a summary is provided in Annex 4.1 2/. While the overall environmental
impact is positive, the EAs detail the unavoidable negative impacts of each project component during
construction and subsequent operation. Environmental mitigation plans specify management and control,
site supervision requirements and rehabilitation standards. Mitigation actions required during construction
have been incorporated into draft contract documents. Technical assistance will be provided to the SEA
to build their capacity to carry out environmental monitoring over the medium term as recommended in
the mitigation plans.
C.    Resettlement and Compensation
4.7    Planning for site specific infrastructure has aimed to minimize compensation and resettlement costs
by accommodating existing structures and land usage and adjusting service standards to ensure plot costs
are affordable to existing households (para. 2.18). To further minimize the need for resettlement where
large plots with multiple structures/households have been sub-divided, in situ households will be given
priority in the allocation of plots. An estimated 300 households may need to be relocated to allow for
the construction of on-site facilities and to prevent environmental degradation on steep slopes. The draft
plot allocation policy included in the project implementation manual assigns the highest priority to these
households for allocation of in-fill plots within their current housing settlements. They will also be
separately compensated for existing structures and assisted with relocation. The number of households
to be resettled outside the project area based on affordability, is expected to be minimal as a result of the
availability of non-conventional housing finance and financial support from extended families.
D.    Economic Analysis
4.8    Details of the economic rate of return calculations are shown in Annex 4.2.  Only those
components with quantifiable benefits have been evaluated i.e. (i) urban roads and drainage; (ii) water
supply and sewerage; (iii) housing upgrades. Among expected benefits, only measurable benefit have
been estimated. Cost streams include civil works, equipment and machinery, engineering design,
supervision, physical contingencies and operation and maintenance costs.  The ERRs of project
components are discussed below.
4.9    Urban Roads and Drainage. Benefits have been measured as savings in vehicle operating costs
arising from less wear and tear and lower fuel consumption on the improved road surfaces. It was
conservatively assumed that passenger time savings would be of minor importance and that road
2/ Volumes seven and eight of Technical Report 2; John Burrow; May, 1993.



34
maintenance costs would not change significantly. ERRs on four of the five project roads were above
10% and rose as high as 60% on one congested road.
4.10   Water Supply and Sewera,e. Economic benefits were computed as the value placed on the net
incremental volume of water produced and sewage treated under the project. Assuming that the
incremental water was supplied to already existing consumers the imputed value was the additional water
available and the sewage treated based on the average financial water and sewerage tariffs3/. No separate
analysis was undertaken for sewerage costs and benefits because the most important benefits from
sewerage services, improved public health and environmental conservation, cannot be quantified. These
unquantifiable benefits are significant given present under-capacity (para 2.16). The base ERRs obtained
are 46% in Manzini and 18% in Mbabane. Sensitivity analyses indicated that with a combined 10%
increase in capital costs and a 10% reduction in benefits, the ERRs would reduce to 14% in Mbabane and
36% in Manzini.
4.11   Community upgrading. Benefits have been quantified in terms of property value increases. Based
on sample surveys in the four target communities, and in comparable areas already provided with proper
infrastructure and security of tenure, the property values would increase by over 50% with the project.
Significant value was attached to the anticipated security of tenure that will be conferred by the leasehold
agreement.
E.    Poverty Impact
4.12   The proposed project would have a significant poverty impact -- improving health, hygiene and
general living conditions in the two cities through provision of potable piped water supply, waste-water
disposal, solid waste disposal and improved road access to the target communities, in particular, and to
the urban population as whole. The project would allow 4000 low and moderate income households to
become property owners; providing them with secure tenure on real property. Employment opportunities
would be created through the construction of roads, buildings and other infrastructure, most of which will
be undertaken by local contractors and/or subcontractors.
F.    Project Risks
4.13   Project processing has been delayed due to turnover of key decision makers and lengthy decision
making processes in Swaziland. A major project risk, is that these factors could also delay project
implementation. This risk has been minimized by ensuring that most actions essential to project success
and sustainability, in particular those that require approval by Cabinet and/or Parliament, are taken prior
to loan effectiveness. Loan covenants require timely initiation of remaining actions (e.g. approval of tariff
increases and subventions for SWSB in subsequent years) to allow sufficient lead time for the approval
process. A second risk is that capacity building objectives may not be achieved. To minimize this risk,
the investment component of the project has been reduced to allow for modest/phased improvements in
institutional capacity, institution building programs have been initiated during project preparation, and
institutional action plans have been prepared for key implementing agencies. The status of implementation
of capacity building programs and action plans will be reviewed in detail during annual and the mid term
3/ Whether paid for or not, availability of clean water has an important benefit as compared to
untreated water from unprotected sources. Therefore, billing and collection efficiency was
assumed at 100% for economic valuation purposes.



35
review. A third risk is that upgrading sites may not be affordable or communities may be unwilling to
participate in the project. This risk has been minimized by taking into account the income of target
groups in all aspects of project design and ensuring close involvement and participation of project
beneficiaries throughout project preparation and implementation. Finally, there is the risk of slow
implementation of project components. This risk has been minimized through detailed planning and
preparation for implementation by the executing agencies and the design consultants (on-going) and up
front action on procurement. Technical support to the project coordination unit, establishment of
implementation units by each of the executing agencies and annual project reviews will further minimize
this risk.



36
CHAPTER 5: AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.    Conditions of Board Presentation
5.1   The following conditions of Board presentation have been met:
(a)    Vesting of SWSC (para. 3.6); and
(b)    GOS approval of an increase of 50% in SWSC's tariffs to be effected 1st April 1995
(para. 3.6).
B.    Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
5.2    The conditions of Loan effectiveness are as follows:
(a)    Enactment of the new Rating Act (para. 2.12);
(b)    GOS approval of the Leasehold agreement for SNL (para. 2.12);
(c)    Acquisition of required land for sewage treatment facilities in Mbabane and Manzini
(para. 2.16);
(d)    Signing of subsidiary loan agreements between GOS, SWSC, SNHB, and Mbabane and
Manzini City Councils (para. 2.26);
(e)    Appointment of key staff of the PCU and the TSU with experience, qualifications and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.35); and
(f)    Completion of the project implementation manual (para. 2.39).
C.    Conditions of Disbursement
5.3   The following are the conditions of loan disbursement:
(a)    For on-site infrastructure for housing sites - submission of specific resettlement and
compensation plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for each housing site (para. 2.18); and
(b)    For solid waste disposal civil works contracts for Manzini and for solid waste equipment
contracts - Acquisition of land required for the Manzini solid waste disposal site (para.
2.41).
D.    Agreements reached during Loan Negotiations
5.4    During loan negotiations agreement was reached on the following:
(a)    GOS shall ensure that the project is carried out in accordance with its resettlement and
compensation policy. Prior to the start of construction, resettlement and compensation
plans satisfactory to the Bank will also be prepared for each upgrading site where SNHB
will mobilize after the completion of disbursement of Bank funds (para. 2.18);
(b)    GOS and implementing agencies will make adequate budgetary provisions for their share
of project costs (para. 2.24);
(c)    Procurement under the project will be carried out in accordance with the arrangements
summarized in para. 2.29 - 2.33. LCB procedures will be carried out in accordance with
Bank guidelines (para. 2.30);



37
(d)    GOS will maintain the PSC and the organizational structures, functions and staffing of
the PCU and TSU in a manner satisfactory to the Bank throughout project implementation
(para. 2.35);
(e)    A project launch workshop will be held within two months of loan effectiveness.
Thereafter, GOS together with the Bank will carry out annual project reviews by July
31st of each fiscal year and a comprehensive midterm review by December 31, 1996.
GOS and project implementing agencies will implement the recommendations of these
reviews as agreed with the Bank including measures to implement the agreed
recommendations arising from the policy and legislative review (para. 2.36);
(f)    Two copies of the audit reports of the consolidated project account, the special account
and the financial statements of SNHB, SWSC, and the Mbabane and Manzini City
Councils will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal year.
The audit report of the consolidated project account would also contain a separate opinion
on the statement of expenditure (SOE) procedure (para. 2.44);
(g)    GOS to adopt project reporting procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.45);
(h)    Agreed institutional action plans and performance targets would be reflected in the
subsidiary loan agreement between GOS and each implementing agency. The agencies
would implement these action plans in accordance with agreed schedules making
adjustments where necessary in line with recommendations arising from the project launch
workshop, annual project reviews and the midterm review (para. 3.1);
(i)    For FY95/96 and FY96/97, GOS to provide a mix of real tariff increases and subventions
to allow SWSC to cover all operating costs and interest expense and to achieve this target
from FY97/98 onwards without subventions or real tariff increases (with the exception
of subventions for the direct recurrent expenses of the water supply schemes in Siteki and
Nhlangano). From FY95/96 onwards, SWSC would submit to the Bank by July 31st of
the previous fiscal year, its updated five year financial forecasts, and its budget estimate
and tariff and subvention proposals for the fiscal year (para. 3.6);
(j)    For FY 95/96 and FY 96/97, SWSC would consult with GOS and the Bank prior to
incurring any new long-term debt. From FY 97/98 onwards, SWSC would maintain a
minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 (para. 3.6);
(k)    GOS and the City Councils will agree an Urban Government Policy framework
satisfactory to the Bank by February 1st 1995. In addition (i) the Councils would consult
with the Government and the Bank prior to incurring any new long-term debt obligation,
and (ii) from FY 95/96 onwards GOS would ensure adequate adjustments to solid waste
disposal user charges to enable Mbabane and Manzini City Councils to cover operating
costs, including depreciation and interest expense. (para. 3.13); and
(I)    SNHB will implement the Institutional Support program utilizing technical specialists,
satisfactory to the Bank, and in accordance with the agreed schedule and will make
adjustments where necessary in line with recommendations arising from the project launch
workshop, annual project reviews and the midterm review (para. 3.16).
E.    Recommendation
5.5   Subject to the above, the proposed project is suitable for a loan from the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development to the Kingdom of Swaziland in the amount of US$29 million.



- 38 -
Annex 1.1
Page I of 4
SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
STATEMENT OF SECTORAL POLICY
September 1993
I.    Background
Since its establishment in late 1991, Swaziland's Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
(MHUD) has been pursuing a deliberate program of sectoral policy reform. Indeed, the
establishment of the Ministry itself represents a substantial step forward on the part of the
Government of Swaziland in its continuing efforts to deal with the Kingdom's urbanization
process.
MHUD seeks to establish a sectoral policy which will support sustainable, equitable housing
delivery and urban development systems and processes. In pursuit of this overarching goal, the
Ministry is actively facilitating policy and legislative reform in three key sub-sectors: a) housing;
b) urban governance and development; and, c) land and physical development. Activities, planned
and underway, in each policy sub-sector are briefly discussed below.
II.    Housing
After several years of preparatory work, Cabinet approved in May 1993 "A Housing Policy for
the Urban Areas of the Kingdom of Swaziland". This policy document recognizes that a number
of interactive elements must be in place to achieve a sustainable and equitable housing delivery
system in the Kingdom within a free market context, as summarized below.
First, Government will facilitate the improved functioning of the private sector housing market to
the greatest degree possible. Government will, over the medium term, phase out of the direct
provision of housing and will promote private sector housing provision by facilitating land
availability, provision of bulk infrastructure and community participation in the design and
implementation of appropriate schemes.
Second, Govermnent will assist the mobilization of adequate housing finance from the private
sector. This assistance should include a supportive regulatory environment for building societies
and other housing finance institutions, promotion of alternative financial systems tailored to the
needs of the low income urban majority, and mobilization of alternative sources of finance
including pension funds.Third, Government will promote the institutional development of key
organizations in the sector. These organizations include the Ministry itself, local authorities, the
National Housing Board, the Water and Sewerage Board, the Surveyor General and the Deeds
Registry, and housing finance institutions.



- 39 -
Annex 1.1
Page 2 of 4
Fourth, Government will ensure an adequate supply of well placed land with secure tenure for
housing development. Market allocation of land for housing is the preferred mechanism in all
cases except those involving relocation of residents for the greater public good. Progress is being
made in this very sensitive area with the recent approval in principle by the King of 99 year leases
for Swazi Nation Land (SNL) involved in the first phase of the Urban Development Project
(UDP).
Fifth, Government will promote appropriate housing development through a suitable, streamlined
system of controls. These controls must take into account appropriate construction standards,
materials and techniques; and, must ensure that formally and informally produced housing,
particularly of the low cost variety, are both durable and bankable.
Sixth, and finally, Government will ensure that its Housing Policy is fully integrated within its
Urban Development Policy (which will be completed by June 1994) and that, in turn, both policies
are in harmony with the National Physical Development Plan (which will be completed by June
1994). Particularly in a time of scarce Government resources, this will require effective
integration of land delivery, infrastructure provision, finance and full cost recovery.
III.   Urban Governance and Development
The Urban Government Act of 1969 provides the basis for the establishment of cities and towns in
Swaziland. Under the Act, the Ministry is legally mandated to assist and supervise the two cities
of Manzini and Mbabane and the seven towns of Nhlangano, Siteki, Hlatikulu, Lavumisa, Pigg's
Peak, Vuvulane and Mankayane. Only Mbabane and Manzini function as true local authorities in
terms of possessing their own sources of revenue, setting budgets, providing basic services, and
employing staff. The smaller towns do not control financial resources, employ staff or provide
services.
Prior to the establishment of MHUD in late 1991, the local authorities in Manzini and Mbabane
had received little support, other than subventions, from Government. Local governments have
been operating in a virtual policy vacuum. Beyond the Rating Act of 1967 as amended in 1971,
local governments have been provided with very few tools with which to achieve their mandate
and the development, sanitation and amenities of the municipality". Locally generated revenues
from rates have never been adequate to meet local service and maintenance demands. As a result,
the two city governments have come to rely upon an ad hoc system of central government
subventions.
In the near term, the key issue to be addressed is reformation of local government finance. Two
immediate steps are being taken. First, amendments to the Rating Act are being drafted for
submission to Cabinet, or the new Parliament depending upon the timing of national elections.
This submission will take place no later than July 1994, prior to effectiveness of the proposed
World Bank loan. The main intent of these revisions is to establish a regular system of property
rates valuations which will enable local governments to more systematically match revenues with
service demands. In addition, property owned by Government would be valued and rated, an area
of particular concern for the capital city of Mbabane. Next, and for the first time, a Local
Government Finance Policy is being delineated under the guidance of the Ministry's Dept. of
Local Government. The objective of this policy, a full draft of which is expected by the end of
August 1993, is to establish the respective financial responsibilities of



- 40 -
Annex 1.1
Page 3 of 4
national and local governments in meeting the costs of key local services. The principle upon
which this policy will be based is that subventions from central government should be limited to
those services which cannot be run by local government on a self-financing basis (eg,
infrastructure developments such as major roads, commnunity and recreational facilities that serve a
population beyond the city boundaries). This would exclude local services which are essentially
public enterprises--including abattoirs, solid waste disposal, markets, terminals, etc., for which
privatization options will be explored, and where feasible, implemented during the Urban I project
period--and operations and maintenance activities which should be financed from rates collections.
Over the medium term, the Ministry is committed to assisting local governments to implement the
DEVCO recommendations in five key areas: organizational strengthening, financial management,
rating and revenue, engineering management, and legal issues. In addition, a key area of concern,
both for the UDP and beyond, is the development of local governments' capacity to involve
commnunities in the planning and development process.
These activities will culminate in a thorough revision of the Urban Government Act and
promulgation of a comprehensive Local Government Development Policy. It must be recognized,
however, that the process of reorganizing local governments will take time. The human resources
of both the Ministry and the City Councils are very limited. The UDP consultants have identified
substantial training and technical assistance for both the Ministry and the City Councils which will
be required to bring these sub-sectoral policy reform goals to fruition in the medium term (i.e.,
during the next 18 to 24 months).
IV.   Land and Physical Development
The Ministry is fully committed to facilitating the emergence of a well-functioning urban land
market in the Kingdom. Achievement of this goal is the most complex of the sub-sectoral policy
activities being addressed by MHUD, interweaving cultural, technical and institutional concerns of
the broadest scope.
A very significant first step has been taken in the King's approval in principle of 99 year leases
for Swazi Nation Land involved in the first phase of the UDP. Financial institutions have
indicated that such an arrangement will satisfy their banking criteria for lending, and a model
lease agreement is nearing finalization. Final Government approval of the lease agreement will
take place prior to effectiveness of the proposed World Bank loan; i.e., no later than July 1994.
Proposals to include SNL to be developed under the UDP within municipal jurisdictions are also
nearing completion.
It must be emphasized, however, that His Majesty's initial dispensation is specific to the first
phase of the UDP. The Ministry will continue to work with community and traditional leaders
over the course of Urban 1 implementation to ensure that this innovation gradually becomes the
norm in urban areas.
With regard to the technical aspects of land and physical development, the Ministry fully endorses
the basic principles of the DEVCO Physical Planning Study. This report, known as DEVCO 2,
recommends the repeal of several anachronistic pieces of sectoral legislation (including the
Building, Human Settlements Authority, Town Planning and Subdivision of Land Acts) to be
replaced by a new piece of legislation to be called the Physical Planning and Development Control
Act. It further recommends that a National Physical Planning Authority be established and that
the two city councils be made planning authorities for the Greater Mbabane and Greater Manzini
areas.



- 41 -
Annex 1.1
Page 4 of 4
The report also recommends that the current Human Settlements Authority be disbanded to be
replaced by a National Physical Planning Authority. The DEVCO 2 report was completed in
April of this year. The recommendations it contains appear to be extremely well thought out, but
are so sweeping that the Ministry and other involved Government agencies require time to review
the report's contents. MHUD will, following thorough consultation, introduce the report itself
and appropriate revised legislation to Cabinet and Parliament by early 1994.
In the meantime, the Ministry's Physical Planning Section is completing revision of the Standard
Development Code which will introduce more appropriate development standards in terms of lot
sizes, allowable residential densities, set back requirements, etc., taking into account the basic
principle of affordability. A draft of this revised Code will be completed by January 1994.
Simultaneously, a terms of reference has been drawn up to review all land-related legislation in
the Kingdom. Provided resources are available, it is anticipated that this review will be complete
by January 1994. Immediately thereafter, Government would set in motion the steps for any
required legislative reform.
An additional area of sub-sectoral concern relates to land information management systems (LIS).
Installation of this basic tool in the Kingdom is critical to the interactive tasks of establishing an
effective urban land market, reforming rating and collection systems, and monitoring sectoral
performance. ODA is currently providing technical assistance to the Registrar of Deeds and the
Surveyor General's office to establish a pilot LIS. MHUD and other relevant ministries will
determine the appropriate institutional location for installation of a full scale LIS as a matter of
urgency.
V.    Summary
As can be seen from the foregoing, a comprehensive program of sectoral policy reform is now
underway. It is clearly the responsibility of the Ministry to coordinate this effort. To date,
however, coordination has been hampered by delays in filling key appointments in the Ministry's
Departments of Housing, Physical Planning, and Local Government. The Ministry has also
recommended to the Ministry of Labour, as a matter of urgency, creation of the Department of
Project Management and Planning (DPMP) which would regularize the current Project
Coordination Unit within the MHUD establishment.
Given establishment of DPMP and filling of key positions in other Ministry Departments,
coordination of sectoral policy activities will be greatly improved. Day to day sectoral
coordination responsibility will be assigned to DPMP; a key aspect of this brief will be to ensure
that individual policy revision activities are carried out in a consultative manner. When fully
staffed, the Ministry's line departments will each be responsible for the coordination of activities
in their specific sub-sectors.
However, even with full staffing of the Ministry, assistance, mostly of a short-term nature, from
consultants will continue to be critical to accomplishment of this considerable task. Consultants
have clearly identified and estimated costs of technical assistance and training required to support
sectoral policy reform efforts have been clearly identified. MHUD will seek additional donor
support for these technical assistance and training requirements. Given adequate human,
technical, and financial resources the emergerce of a fully articulated, appropriate sectoral policy
framework by the end of 1995 is a reasonable goal to which Government is fully committed.



- 42 -
Annex 2.1
Page I of S
SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Policy Reform and Development
1.    As is common in many developing countries which have only recently begun to experience
high rates of urbanization, policies governing the Swazi urban sector have been fragmented,
antiquated, and, in some cases, entirely absent. A major effort has been made during the project
preparation phase, therefore, to identify and act upon required policy reforms.
2.    Given the urgent need for urban infrastructure improvements and affordable housing
development, the Government, through a series of workshops supported by the Bank, USAID, and
UNDP during 1990-1992, prioritized urban sector policy reform and development requirements. In
essence, actions were prioritized into two groups:
3.     Immediate requirements- this grouping of required actions includes those reforms which are
necessary prior to initiation of any sustainable urban investment program. Included in this high
priority group were:
a)    creation of MHUD in order to resolve fractionation of authority and responsibility in
the sector;
b)    delineation of a National Housing Policy for Urban Areas and a Sectoral Strategy;
c)    initiation of a process by which formal security of tenure can be instituted on SNL in
urban areas;
d)    redefinition of local authority and key parastatal structures to improve financial
capacity, autonomy and accountability including revision of the Rating Act; and
e)    definition of policies and procedures to govern community liaison, allocation of land
in urban informal settlements, design and pricing of plots for sale on a fully cost
recoverable basis, and relocation and compensation policies and procedures.
4.     Medium Term Requirements- this grouping includes policy reform and development actions
which are necessary to achieve a well functioning urban sector over the medium term, but which were
not required to effectively deal with the most pressing urban needs in the Kingdom, including
improvement of roads, water supply and sewers and upgrading of highest priority informal
settlements. Work will continue throughout the implementation period of the proposed UDP project
on:
a)    definition of an Urban Government Policy which, building from the Rating Act
revision, will clearly define the framework within which local authorities will operate,
particularly with regard to central government subventions and commercialization of
operations as appropriate;
b)    revision of legislation governing physical planning and development control,
including the Building, Human Settlements Authority, Town Planning and Subdivision
of Land Acts, possibly to be subsumed under a unified Physical Planning and
Development Control Act;
c)    building upon the UDP pilot projects involving SNL, definition of a systematic process
by which SNL can be efficiently and equitably incorporated in urban areas;



- 43 -
Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 5
d)    examining the feasibility of establishing a secondary market to increase funds available
for housing finance and to encourage commercial banks to diversify into mortgage
lending; and
e)    developing a Housing Policy implementation plan.
5.    It is anticipated that basic studies required to underpin these fundamental reforms will be
completed about a year into project implementation (see Attachment A), at which point action
planning to achieve required reforms will be defined and implemented. It is anticipated that all
fundamental sectoral policy reform and development actions will be completed within the
implementation period of the proposed project.
B. Institutional Development
6.    Development of the institutional capacity to manage and sustain urban development is also
essential. Ongoing and planned institutional strengthening activities in the sector, including those
funded by other donors and Government, are summarized in Attachment A. Government's intention
to build capacity in such a way as to maximize private sector involvement in urban development is
well explicated in MHUD's Statement of Sectoral Policy provided in Annex 1.1. All training and
technical assistance to promote the development of institutional capacity is being designed to maximize
utilization of local and regional human and institutional resources.
CITYWIDE IIRASTRUCTURE
A. Roads and Drainage
Mbabane Roads and Drainage
7.    a)     Upgrading of Mahwalala collector road, from junction with MR19 at Hilltop towards
Mpolongeni (3.6 k1m). The road is steep in places and is in a very poor condition.
The collector will be upgraded to a bitumen standard to provide improved access to
the upgrading and housing areas. It will also serve as an access road to the new
Mbabane solid waste disposal site.
b)    Nkwalini Road - 0.6 km starts from Hilltop roundabout and terminates in Zone 4.
The upgrading would be to bitumen standard and will provide improved access to the
northwestern section of Nkwalini (Zone 4) housing and upgrading area.
c)    Corporation Road - The existing unsurfaced road functions as a collector road for the
existing Msunduza and Corporation housing areas. The upgrading of Msunduza is one
of the site specific development components included in the project. The road is steep
with part of the drainage at present being carried in subsurface stormwater culverts. It
is proposed to upgrade this road to a bitumen standard and to improve the existing
surface water drainage associated with the road.
Manzini Roads and Drainage
D98 is a district road which runs from a juncton with the main Mbabane - Manzini road west of
thecitycentre, to the southern tip of the urban area, and on southward to Sidvokodvo. The road is



- 44 -
Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 5
bitumen surfaced for the first kilometer, but the remaining length through the urban area,
approximately 3 km, is gravel. The road is steep in sections, and carries heavy local and regional
traffic. Problems with poor drainage, erosion and hogh maintenance costs place the road high on
Manzini's priority list for upgrading to bitumen standard.
9.    Main Road, Ngwane Park would link the southern end of the D98 approximately 1 km north
of its exit from the urban area, with the existing main national road to the south, which passes to the
west of the city. At present traffic on this main road use a local collector as a short cut to and from
the city center causing serious damage to the local collector pavement. Construction of Main Road
and the northern portion of D98 will provide a more direct link to the city, and relieve congestion on
the collector road. Main road will also act as a distributor road to suburban traffic in the southern
part of Manzini.
B. Road Maintenance
10.   A road inventory will be carried out following completion of detailed design. The completion
of a road inventory will enable decisions to be made on a road maintenance and rehabilitation program
for Mbabane that can be initiated as part of the proposed urban project. A provisional amount has
been provided in the cost estimates for this package.
11.   The Manzini road maintenance program is a combination of routine, recurrent and periodic
maintenance and a range of pavement rehabilitation works. The rehabilitation of roads in Manzini
was defined in a detailed study carried out in 1990 for a selection of paved roads. This study has
been updated, excluding roads which have already been repaired, and an initial 12 month program of
rehabilitation and maintenance has been included, which includes the resealing of 6 km of paved
roads, and the regravelling of 9 km of unpaved roads in addition to the rehabilitation of specified
roads.
C. Solid Wastes Disposal
12.   Municipal solid waste in Mbabane is disposed of at a temporary site immediately beneath the
existing abattoir. It is a totally unsatisfactory site and is recognized as such by the City Council who
are anxious to establish a new site. Apart from being close to the abattoir, it is also close to existing
housing. Although compaction equipment has been obtained and a bulldozer is made available
whenever needed, there is no cover material readily available enable fly, smell and wind blown waste
nuisance to be avoided. Several other temporary sites are used for the disposal of inert waste. A new
solid waste disposal site, located at the edge of the Mahwalala upgrading area, is included in the
proposed project. The total area designated for the site is 23 ha and access to it would be provided by
a bitumen standard road from the Mahwalala collector. In Manzini, solid waste is disposed of at a
site about 0.5 km to the east of the town center and close to existing developments. It was sited in a
donga a short distance from the Mzimene river and was intended to halt erosion as well as to provide
a solid waste disposal site. It has been in use for over 20 years and cover material has been
exhausted. Equipment for compacting and covering deposited material is not available. Solid wastes
are simply dumped on the site and there is a danger that they may be blown by the wind and/or
washed into the river during heavy rains. The proposed new solid waste disposal site is located about
2 km to the south of Mandisa hill in a developing donga formation. The access road to the site will
be provided by upgrading the existing tract that runs along the low east/west ridge from the
Nhlangano road.



- 45 -
Annex 2.1
Page 4 of 5
D. Water Supply
13.   Raw water for Mbabane is drawn from the Polinjane stream and Mbabane river upstream of
Mbabane, and from the Black Mbuluzi river. The flows from the Polinjane stream and the Mbabane
river are taken by gravity to the Sidwashini treatment works and represent a small proportion of the
overall requirements. Flows in the Black Mbuluzi river are regulated by the existing Hawane dam.
A weir is located across the river at the Woodlands intake forming a storage pond from which raw
water is pumped to the Woodlands Treatment Works.
14.   The 1991 average raw water consumption was 11-8 Ml/d. The projected raw water
requirements for 1996 and 2001 are, respectively, 18.8 MI/d and 19.6 MI/d. A new pumping station
will be constructed at the existing intake site and a new 400 mm diameter pumping main laid to the
Woodlands Water Treatment Works. A rising main of 160 mm diameter will be constructed from the
Woodlands water treatment works to Thembelihle reservoir to strengthen supplies to the northern
section of the Mbabane distribution system.
15.   The capacity provided at the Woodlands Water Treatment Works will be doubled. This will
involve a new inlet chamber, clarifiers, filters, chlorination plant and chlorine contact bank, office and
laboratory buildings. Filter backwash water will be recycled and waste clarifier sludge discharged to
the sewerage system. A new treated water reservoir of 3.5 Ml capacity will also be provided for flow
balancing and to enable pressure zone within the distribution system. The new works will be treated
within the existing treatment works site.
E. Sewage Treatment
16.   Sewage collected in Mbabane is conveyed by gravity to waste stabilization ponds in
Gobholo valley. Inlet works consist of a stormwater overflow, manually raked screens, a grit
chamber and are burnt when sufficiently dry. Seven ponds are provided in series. The existing ponds
were designed for a population of 3,000. It is estimnated that the present population equivalent served
by the ponds is 38,000 and as a result the ponds operate in the anaerobic mode.
17.   The existing Gobholo sewage treatment works will be rehabilitated to serve a population in the
Msunduza area that is within its design capacity. A new sewage treatment works will be constructed
at the northern end of the Ezulwini Valley. The new works will be constructed in phases and will
ultimately occupy an area of about 50 ha. The first phase will require about half of this area and will
provide the following treatment units:
inlet works consisting of manually operated screens, grit removal and flow measuring
equipment;
anaerobic waste stabilization ponds;
biological filters;
hopper-bottomed final settlement banks (which do not require scraper mechanisms for
desludging; and
maturation ponds.



- 46 -
Annex 2.1
Page 5 of 5
The works are designed to produce an effluent with the following characteristics:
fecal coliforms per lOOnl (1,000); and
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 20 mg/I.
The new southern outfall will intercept sewage at Corporation and convey the flows to the new
sewage works.
18.   Sewage collected in Manzini is treated at the Quarantine pond system consists of inlet works
and six ponds in series. A new pond has recently been constructed and the previous primary pond has
been desludged. The Zakhele pond system consists of screens and five ponds comprising two primary
ponds in parallel and three maturation ponds in series. The combined pond systems were designed for
a population of about 6000 and are receiving flows from a population equivalent of about 40,000
including industrial wastes. As a result, the ponds provide a poor level of treatment.
19.   It is proposed to construct a new sewage treatment works to the south of the Nhlambeni
upgrading area. The new works, which will be constructed in phases will ultimately occupy an area
of about 70 ha. The existing Zakhele and Quaranatine sewage treatment works will no longer be
required once this new works have been constructed and commissioned. The works will be
decommissioned and the sites rehabilitated. The new sewer outfall pick up the western outfall sewer
and traverse to the proposed new sewage treatment works.
F.    Concurrent Activities
20.   The Matsapha Industrial estate shares water supply and waste water disposal with, or
provides service for some areas in Manzini, including some of the proposed project area.  Within the
estate, roads, surface drainage and solid waste disposal are administered by the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry (MCI) while water supply and wastewater disposal are the responsibility of the Water
and Sewerage Board. KfW is helping to fund an infrastructure project that aims to rehabilitate and
expand specific infrastructure for the estate, namely, estate roads, surface water drainage, solid waste
disposal, wastewater disposal and water supply.
21.   The water treatment plant at Matsapha presently delivers approximately 280 I/s to the airport
reservoirs, which service Matsapha as well as urban areas included in the proposed project. Under
the KfW-financed project, the water treatment facilities will be rehabilitated and up-graded to achieve
400 I/s, which should be sufficient to meet projected requirements to about 1998. The existing
sewage treatment plant at Matsapha serves both the industrial estate and Kwaluseni, which would be
expanded under a subsequent phase of the urban development program. The new facility planned for
Matsapha makes provision for the continued treatment of the anticipated larger waste water flows
from a future expansion of Kwaluseni.






- 47 -
Annex 2.1
Attachment .4
Page I of 4
Details of Policy and Institutional Component
(costs at December 1993)
Ministry of Housing & Urban Development
Policy Component                       Timing         Cost       Funding
I              I   (E)  A      Source
Housing Policy Implementation Study (2 mths)          5/95-9/95      150.000       GOS
Urban Government Policy Study (2 mths)                8/94-11/94     150.000       GOS
Physical Planning & Development Control Review (8 mths)   10/94-02/95  285,000     GOS
Secondary Market Study (1 mth)                       06/95-12/95     115,000       GOS
Land Legislation (4 mths)                             6/94-12/94    250,000        ODA
Urban/Peri-Urban Land Management Study (6 mths)       02/95-9/97    250,000        GOS
Total                 1,200,000
Institutional Component                  Timing      Cost (E)       Funding
Source
Project Workshops                                   11/94-12/94     400,000       IBRD
Degree Training for 3 Physical Planners              9/93-6/96      300,000    ODA, USAID.
AUSAID
Regional Workshops & Study Tours                    01/95-12/98     100,000       GOS
Technical Support Unit
- Team Leader/Project Management Specialist (15 mths),  11/94-12/98  667,500       IBRD
- Infrastructure Engineer (26 mths)                  11/94-12/98    728,000        IBRD
- Institutional Training Specialist (6 mths)         01/95-12/96    210,000        IBRD
- Environmental Specialist (6 mths)                  04/95-12/98    199,680       IBRD
- Financial Management Specialist/Accountant (ISmiths)  10/94-12/95  616,080       IBRD
(3 mths)     01/96-12/98     123,216       IBRD
- Local Finance Counterpart (24 mths)                01/95-12/96    360,000        IBRD
(6 mths)                    01/97-12/98     90,000        IBRD
- Sociologist (15 mths)                              10/94-12/98    404,250        IBRD
- Urban Specialist (10 mrths)                        08/94-12/96    300,000       IBRD
- Secretary (51 mths)                                10/94-12/98    255,000        IBRD
Subtotal                                                           3,953,726
Total                 4,753,726
t Intermitent



- 48 -
.Annex 2.1
Attachment A
Page 2 of 4
NIbabane and NManzini City Councils
Institutional Component                  Timing       Cost (E)    Funding
Source
Human Resources Review                               07/94/12/94      230,000     GOS
UDP Community Liaison Equipment & Supplies:
- Community liaison (2 positions) (96 mths)          throughout      204,000    Mbcc, Mzcc
- Audio-visual supplies (lump sum Manzini)           throughout       10,000      Mzcc
Twinning Agreement:                                  01/95-12/98
- Financial Management Specialists (2 @ 12 mths)                     450,000   Cofinancing
- Engineering O&M Specialist (12 mths)                               225,000
- Planning/Building Control Specialist (4 mths)                       75,000
- Manpower Development Specialist (3 mths)                             56,250
- Mechanical Workshop Specialist (3 mths)                              56,250
- Landfill Specialist (2 mths)                                         37,500
- Overseas Training Attachments                                        45,000
Annual Staff Training Programme:                     01/95-12/98
- Training Delivery                                  throughout       150,000   Mbcc/Mzcc
- Regional Workshops and Study Tours                                  100,000   Mbcc/Mzcc
Automation of Accounting/MIS System Mbabane           7/94-6/96       430,000     Mbcc
Total                  2,069,000



- 49 -
Annex 2.1
.4ttachment .4
Page 3 of 4
Swaziland Water Service Corporation
Institutional Component                   Timing    T   Cost (E)      Funding
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _l               I  Source
Intermittent Specialist Input (6 mths)                11/94-12 98      267,000
Overseas Secondments                                   11/94-12/98      150.000      SWSC
Annual Programme of Regionally-Sourced Training:       4/94-3196        500,000      SWSC
- Needs Assessment (in-house)
- Training Delivery
- Regional Workshops and Study Tours
Automation of Accounting/MIS Systems:                  4/94-3/96
- Project Planning/Management.                                         100,000       SWSC
- Implementation/Training.                                             420,000
Total                    1,437,000
Swaziland National Housing Board
(as per January 1994 - "Proposal for Interim Institutional Strengthening of SNHB"
Institutional Component                  Timing       Cost (E)        n
.___________    _Source
Interim Training Packages for SNHB personnel
- Workshops                                         7/94/12/98     100,000     SNHB
Technical Advisory Support:
- Project Management Engineer (4 mths)              10/94-1/95      122,000    UNDP
- Financial Advisor (6 mths)                        7/94-8/97      326,000    UNDP
- Human Resources Advisor (3.0 mths)                7/94-4/97      162,700    UNDP
- Business Admin. Specialist                                      301,000      UNDP
- Housing Specialist                                               113,900     UNDP
Annual Staff Training Programme:                    7/94-12/98
- Training Delivery                                                132,000    SNHB
Total                 1,257,600
Deeds Registry Offce
IuiltolmmCompow t                         Tlb_          C  E)  Food*
UDP-Relatd Staffing:                                   10/94-9/96
- Deputy Registrar (24 mths)                                           360,000      IBRD
- Deeds Examiner (24 mths)                                              24,000       GOS
Automation of DRO Data Storage and Retrieval Functions:   10/94-11/95  480,000
- Needs Assessment/Planning                                           (150,000)      GOS
- Implementation (equipment costs and installation)
Annual Programme of Regionally-Sourced Staff Training:  10/94-6/97      40,000       GOS
- Annual Needs Assessment/Planning (in-house)
- Training Delivery
Total                  904 000



- 50 -
.Annex 2.1
-Attachment A
Page 4 of 4
Surveyor General's Office
Institutional Component             -      Timing       Cost (E) | Funding
_______________________________  _______ I _____    -Source
Technical Assistance for lDP Survey Management and      10/94-09/95      180.000     GOS
Staff Training (12 mths                               _
Acquisition of UDP-related Survey Equipment                02/94        100,000      GOS
(Theodolite and Electronic Distance Measuring Device)
International Degree Training for I SGO Candidate Surveyor  95-98        390.000    ODA
Total                   670,000
Swaziland Environmental Authority
[                Institutional Component                     Timing    J Cost (E) J  Funding
Technical Assistance:                                                               Coftnancing
- Environmental Management Advisor (24 mths)              10/94-10/96    720.000      or GOS
I                                                 Total        _           720,000       _
Summary - Institutional & Policy Components - Urban I
mplementn  Im_  utlon                              Cost (E)
Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
- Policy Component                                                        1,200,000
- Institutional Component excluding TSU                                    800,000
- TSU                                                                    3,953,726
Mbabane and Manzini City Councils                                        2,069,000
Swaziland Water and Sewerage Board                                        1,437,000
Swaziland National Housing Board                                         1,257,600
Deeds Registry Office                                                     904,000
Surveyor Gcneral's Office                                                 670,000
Swaziland Environmental Authority                                         720,000
Total     13,011,326



SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(Emdmaneni VWo)                                        (USs -00w
%     % Total                                      %      %Total
Foreign   Base                                     Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange  Costs    Local       Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Polcy and nstItuional Rof
1. Strengthening Institutional C  3,543.4  8,267.9    11,811.3     70       9      1,135.0    2,648.3    3,783.3      70        9
2. Policy Fomulaton Support   240.0        960.0      1,200.0      80       1        76.9      307.5       384.4      80        1
Subtota PolicyandInstitution   3,783.4     9,227.9    13,011.3       71       9      1,211.9    2,955.8    4,167.7      71        9
S. Rehabiitation and Expand
1. Roads and Dranage         2,027.9     4,117.3     6,145.2       67       4       649.6     1,318.8    1,968.4      67        4
2. Roads and Maintenance     2,642.1     2,343.0      4,955.0      47       4       846.3      750.5    1,596.8        47       4
3. Solid Waste Diposal       6,967.7     8,894.9    15,862.6       56      11      2,231.8    2,849.1    5,081.0       56      12
4. ElectrIcal Retculation     474.5      1,423.4      1,897.8      75       1       152.0      455.9       607.9      75        1
5. LanddCCmaton               285.0                    285.0        -       -        91.3                   91.3        -       -
Subtotal Rehabiitatin and Ex    12,397.1  16,778.5    29,175.6       58      21      3,970.9    5,3744     9,345.3      58      21
C. Rehab & Expand Water/ Se
3. Water Service             2,572.3    12,559.0    15,131.3       83      11       823.9    4,022.8    4,846.7       83       11
4. Sewer SeriAce             8,051.2    34,323.5    42,374.7       81      31      2,578.9   10,994.2   13,573.1      81      31
5. Water Loss Reduction       340.0      1,660.0     2,000.0       83       1       108 9      531.7      640.6       83        1
6. Land Compensation          215.0           -        215.0        -       -        68.9          -       689          -
SubtotalRehab&ExpandWat    11,178.5    48,542.5    59,721.0          81      43     3,5806    15,548.8    19,129.4      81       43
0. Res Housing Sites & On-Sit
2. On-Site Infrastructure   10,560.1     9,364.6    19,924.7       47      14      3,382.5    2,999.6    6,382.1      47       14
3. Land Compensatbon         3,599.5-                3,599.5        -       3      1,153.0         -     1,1530_        -      3
Subtotal Res Housing Skes &   14,159.6     9,364.6    23,524.2       40      17     4,535.5    2,999.6    7,535.1       40       17
E. Projet knpemntation Assi
1. Project SuperiAslon       1,843.0     4,300.4,    6,143.4       70       4       590.3    1,377.5    1,967.8       70       4
2. Other                      478.6      1,116.6      1,595.2      70       1       153.3      357.7       511.0      70        1
Subtotal Project  eerkentati   2,321.6     5,417.0     7,738.6       70       6       743.6    1,735.1     2,478.8      70       6
F. PPF Refinancing                  -      4,800.0     4,800.0      100       3           -     1,500.0    1,500 0     100       3
Total BASEUNE COSTS           43,840.2     94,130.5    137,970.6     68      100    14,042.6   30,113.7   44,156.2       68     100
Physical Contingencies       3,363.6     7,468.6    10,832.1       69       8      1,077.4    2,392 3    3,469.7      69        8          Ot  E
Price Contingencies         11,681.0    25,932.8    37,613.8       69      27      1,236 8    2,669.7    3,906 6      68       9
Tota PROJECTCOSTS             58,884.7    127,531.8   186,416.5      68      135    16,356.8   35,175.7   51,532.4       68     117






SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
Governmnent
of
(USS 000)                       IBRO      ODA     SNHB    Other   SWSB   MbCC   MzCC    SEB    UNOP  Cof,nancing  Swaziland    Total
Amnount  Amnount  Arount  Arount Amount Amount Amount Amnount Amount   Amount    Arnount    Amount
A. Chil Works
1. City Wide
Mbabanec CyWildielHWork    12,309.8                                  -   270.3        -    359        -           -     7,509.5   20,125.5
MaziniCtywide CMlWorks       8,436.1      -          -       -       -       -   149.7        -       -           -    3,335.4    11,921.2
Subtotal City Wide            20,745.9                                 -   270.3   149.7    359                     -   10,844.9    32,046.7
2. Sn. Specif Civil Works                                                                                                                                   L
hlbabane Ste Specfic Civi W  2,018.4           3,898.9               -   354.7       -        -                             0 0    6,272.0
Manzln SitespeciticCiCMWor        -                304.3  -              -       -       -            -           -          -     1,304.3
Subtotal Site Specific Civil Wo  2,018.4    -    5,203.2               -   354.7       -                -           -        0.0    7,576.3
Subtotal Civil Works           22,764.3       -    5,203.2       -       -   625.0   149.7    35.9                         10,844.9   39,623.0
B. Equlpment
1. Mbabn Equlpmern              797.7       -                                  -       -                -                              797.7
2. MEanzn Eq,iment                          -         -        -               -       -        -       -           -1,030.7
Subtotal EquipmTent             1,828.4               -         -       -           -        -       -         -                -     1,828.4
C. Land Conpensation                  -                                  -       -       -                -                 1,417.6    1,417.6
D. Consuitancles
1. Prqed Preparation          1,500.0       -         -        -       -       -       -                -           -          -     1,500.0
2. nh AW  Slrengthenhg        2,427.8   510.5      80.5        -   175.0   221.3    81.7        -   340.9       344.6    2,013.4    6,195.7
3. Phase It Plann               479.5       -         -        -       -       -       -        -       -           -        84.6      564.1
5. Poiicy Support                   -    83.1         -                -       -       -                -           -       320.5      403.6
Subtotal Consulancies           4,407.3   593.6      80.5       -   175.0   221.3    81.7        -   340 9        344.6    2,418.5     8,663.4
tal                           29,000.0   593.6   5,283.7       -   175.0   846.3   231.5    35.9   340.9         344.6   14,681.0   51,532.4






SWAZILAND
PROPOSED URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
CONTRACT PACKAGES IPLEtEMENTATiON SCHEDULE
A. C    IDE WORMS                                                                                                                      C _    CONT. AMT *3   -IMP. AGENCY    M. PnPRCS.
Contract I         Description                       Duration              Dales                   US$ 000           _       _
-months)        Start         End       _        _r_                               _
I      RdsA I  Dm.  . tt(MW                        16             Ap,-95       Jun 96           1185                      MbCC                ICa, I
2      PAd. & Omg. 1Mm            a__     _         6             Apw-97       S.p-97       _    197                      MbCC                LCHo I
_ 3    1.& O n9. tt4ZI                             21             Ap-S         DOc.96     _      950                     ImZCC _CH- I
4      Ad. Mdii OMW_                                36            Ape-95       Mm 98             832                      MHCC                Ice, I
S         M1Rd. Mdii ISiZI              __Z_       36             A9i-5S       Me 98             1046                     MZCC                ICa, I
e      WU Supuy tMlt                                12            Oca-9        Soig 96           568                    _sWsiI                _tC
7      WI. 5up 1M                                   18            ion-95       Jun96             1431                     SWSB                 ICH
a          supply  5 titZ                           12            Api-97       Me-98             1040                     SWSH                _IC
*      Swi. lAsc. lMltMZ)                           12            Api 96       Mem 97            545                      SWSH_                LCH
10     Sw. c. I ZI                     _9                        Jon-SB       Sep98              267                      SWSD                tCH
11     Sad. Wastes Osp. M                           Ia 18         Ap. 95       Sep 96            3193                      MbCC                iCe
_________  _________          12      SIM. Wasos O p. IUZI                         12            Jan 96       Dec-96            998 _ 9S                  MaCC                ICD
_18         Sw". Twt. Wha. & Oift. Sw$g 1UM.MZI          39            Ape S        S Se  _8         15642                     SWSD        _         CH
20     E t.   Wd. Tnt. Wks. IMI                     16            Apt 95       Sep 96            2659_             _       SWSH             _CH I
. CrwaIDE GOODS _                                                                                                                  - _                 - __                                     - -
|-_______         19      Sad. Wase Eq. MSB.MZ      _                  4            Apt 96       Aug 96            1828                  MbCC & MaCC              C8s
C. SmTh SPECIFIC WORS                                           I                                                                  - _---_ =
13     514 Sp. 0eo. Meuniuse (MM _                  2 1           Apt9b        DOc-96            1572                      SNIIH              tCBH4
14     Sat Sp. 0ev.. Nkwaed Zom  4 (MM              15            J.5495       Sep-96            0OOH                      SNUiB       _       CH-4
15     St Sp. 0Do. N&w_di Zon_ 2&tIIM               15             AA1-95      Sep6              1075                      SNH H           _ICH4
________16  1Sp. Sp ev. Mit d tMZI                  9             Jsn-97       Se 97              2761     _               SN118 _t              4-C4
17      Sal Sp. 94 LIht*                            21            Jan 96       Sep-97             530                      SNUB8              tCH-4
24      lhoeid/ZZoin 6 E(t. (MZI                    a             Apt 95       Sep-95 _           573                      SNlB H      _      LCBH4
Dwd Zoe S E                                 * .     tpn ol packeges I5 & 221             964       _                 1 ___
D. lIJ^-^  iEDsl    SP   I r _
21     St Sp O.v .. M &undw tM1V2   .               21            Apo 95       Dec-96            611 1       _             SNN_             LH IIDSD-1I
22      Stp. Dew Nkwdird  4,11.M 2                  1       6     Jan-96        Jwn 97            599                      SMnW            L_tIt 8SD *
23      St. Sp D. MS  IUI -2                        12            Oct-96       Sep 97             366                      SNHH             b8 HSD  1 -
3 S.Sr CMPr. (FEC. ACr.)               ______                                               _____.
Pwi fltlecatln &Updingoadw    MZI           12            Apt-95 O      Jn-96 _     __ 7117                         Sf68__          FlC ACT *1
1 .d  *   h                       _     __    __ _          _____. __            _  __         _   ,_ _           ___             .             __  __
3 _bin __ md .            u   ..__ _  __             ___          _
t _ee         c. mi                                                   I-                                                  -             - -  i  - _  _-    .__  _  _     -    - - - -  ___ -----        _   .___.
*1__ p____ '_ ,'.                                                             ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___                                                                                    _   _- --1  - 
*4     ._e*<_s    N.. ~                             ______                    ___ ___                   ______-    ____    .___    __                             _ _    _    _       ___ _
_etdeh  i tt_                                           .-                           _c1:
______~~~  ~ ___   _______                  ____   .___    _ ___ _ ___   _____                                       3
-     _     ^ Stn noe   _oin   _ilv dwho
*_4k






- 54 -
Annex 2.5
Page I of 3
SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
I   IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL TABLE OF CONTENTS
2   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
3     PROJECT SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES
3.1   Detailed Project Description
3.2   Project Organization
3.3   Project Management System
3.4   Roles, Objectives, Responsibilities, and TOR's: PCU & TSU
3.5   Roles, Objectives, and Responsibilities: Implementing Agencies
3.6   Cost Recovery Mechanisms
4   LOGISTICS AND COMMUNICATIONS
4.1   File Index/Filing/Library
4.2   Protocol for Copy Distribution
4.3   Computer Management and Operation
4.4   Communication Protocol
5   POLICY FRAMEWORK
5.1   MHUD Statement of Sectoral Policy
5.2   Housing Policy for Urban Areas
5.3   Plot Allocation Procedures and Criteria
5.4   Plot Pricing Policy
5.5   Resettlement and Compensation Policy
5.6   Policy for Treatment of Vulnerable Groups
5.7   Rating Act
5.8   Leasehold Agreement
5.9   Standpipe Management Policy
6     IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINES
6.1   Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines
6.2   Guidelines for Allocation and Sale of Residential Sites
6.3   Guidelines/Procedures for the Acquisition and Utlization of SNL
6.4   Mechanisms for Providing Financing to UDP Beneficiaries
6.5   Guidelines for Handover of Completed Works to the Implementing Agencies
6.6   Guidelines for Labor Based Works



- 55 -
Annex 2.5
Page 2 of 3
7   PROJECT PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION
7.1   Policy Reform Items, Schedules, and Budgets
7. la  Terms of Reference for 7.1
7.2   Institutional Strengthening Items, Schedules, and Budgets
7.2a  Terms of Reference for 7.2
7.2b  Institutional Action Plans for 7.2
7.3   Implementation Schedule - Overall Project
(physical, procurement, disbursement, finance, etc.)
7.3.1 Implementation Schedule - Residential Sites
7.3.2 Implementation Schedule - Infrastructure
7.3.3 Implementation Schedule - Water and Sewerage
7.3.4 Implementation Schedule - Mbabane City Council
7.3.5 Implementation Schedule - Manzini City Council
7.3.6 Implementation Schedule - Labor Based Contracts
8   HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
8.1   Training and associated TOR's
8.2   Transfer of Expertise Guidelines
8.3   Seminars and Workshops
8.4   Implementation Review of Human Resource Development
9   ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PLAN AND
MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS
10  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
11  COVENANTS AND TARGETS
12  PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES, BIDDING DOCUMENTS,
EVALUATION REPORT FORMAT & MONITORING SYSTEM
12.1 Procurement of Goods
12.2 Procurement of Works
12.3 Procurement of Services
13  DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
13.1 Special Account
13.2 Statement of Expenditures
13.3 Payment Procedures for: suppliers, contractors
(payments, reimbursements, and advances)
14 ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
(functions, responsibilities, schedules, etc.)



- 56 -
Annex 2.5
Page 3 of 3
15    REPORTING
15.1   Reporting Schedule
15.2  Status of Accounts
15.3  Status of Major Problem Areas and Suggested Solutions
15.4   Activity Progress Reports
15.5   Contract Status and Payments for Works, Goods, & Services.
Contracts Awarded, Signed Contracts, Disbursement
15.6   Audit Report Timing, Status, etc.
16    PROJECT MONITORING
16.1  Project Progress (responsibilities, timing, etc.)
16.2   Monitoring of Covenant Compliance
16.3   Monitoring of Performance
16.4   Monitoring of Project Impact on Beneficiaries
17    MONITORING INDICATORS
i8    PROJECT SUPERVISION
18.1   Overall Supervision (schedules, staff, responsibilities, etc.)
18.2  Supervision of the Review Process
18.3   Mid-Term and Annual Reviews
18.4  Project Completion Report
A   ANNEX
A. I   World Bank Procurement Guidelines
A.2   World Bank Consultancy Guidelines
A.3   Standard Contract Documents for Goods, Works & Services
A.4   Accounting and Auditing Guidelines
A.5   Miscellaneous Terms of Reference






- 57 -
Annex 2.6
Page 1 of I
SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank Fiscal Year             Quarterly Disbursement       Cumulative          Disbursement
and Quarter Ending                           (US$m)           (USSm)             % of Total
FY 1995                                                                                 6.6
31-Mar-95                          1.5              1.5
30-Jun-95                         0.4              1.9
FY 1996                                                                                16.0
30-Sep-95                         0.8              2.7
31-Dec-95                         0.6              3.3
31-M ar-96                        0.6               3.9
30-Jun-96                         0.7              4.6
FY 1997                                                                                28.0
30-Sep-96                         0.7              5.3
3 1 -D ec-96                      0.8              6.1
31 -M ar-97                       0.9               7.0
30-Jun-97                         1.1              8.1
4-Feb-00
FY 1998                                                                                46.0
30-Sep-97                         1.2              9.3
31-Dec-97                         1.2             10.5
3 1 -M ar-98                       1.1             11.6
30-Jun-98                         1.7             13.3
FY  1999                                                                               63.0
30-Sep-98                         1.5             14.8
31-Dec-98                          1.3            16.1
31-Mar-99                          1.1             17.2
30-Jun-99                         1.1             18.3
FY 2000                                                                                81.0
30-Sep-99                         1.2             19.5
31 -D ec-99                        1.4            20.9
31 -M ar-00                        1.2             22.1
30-Jun-00                         1.4             23.5
FY 2001                                                                                95.0
30-Sep-00                         1.2             24.7
31-Dec-00                          1.0            25.7
31-Mar-01                          1.0            26.7
30-Jun-01                         0.8             27.5
100
FY 2002
30-Sep-01                         0.8             28.3
30-Dec-01                         0.7             29.0
* Refinancing of PPFs






- 58 -
Annex 2.7
Page 1 of 1
SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
APPROXIMAATE DATE                                ACTIVITY                                STAFFING                          STAFF WEEKS
10/94                  Pre-implementation Mission           Task Manager                                           1
01/95                  Project Launch Workshop              Task Manager                                            8
Engineer
Financial Analyst
Urban Planner (Housing Specialist)
Sociologist/Env ironrnental Specialist
05/95                  Supervision                          Task Manager                                            7
Engineer
Sociologist
Procurement Specialist
Urban Planner (Housing Specialist)
09/95                  Supervision Mission                  Task Manager                                           4.5
Engineer
Urban Planner (Housing Specialist)
01/96                  Annual Review                        Task Manager                                            7
Engineer
Financial Analyst
Urban Planner
Sociologist/Environmental Specialist
05/96                  Supervision Mission                  Task Manager                                            5
Engineer
Urban Planner (Housing Specialist)
10/96                  Supervision Mission                  Task Manager                                           3
Engineer
01/97                  Mid-Term Review                      Task Manager                                            8
Engineer
Financial Analyst
Urban Planner (Housing Specialist)
Sociologist
06/97                  Supervision Mission                  Task Manager                                            3
Engineer
01/98                  Annual Review                        Task Manager                                            7
Engineer
Financial Analyst
Sociologist
06/9X                  Supervision Mission                  Task Manager                                            3
Engineer
01/99                  Supervision Mission                  Task Manager                                            S
(PCR)                               Engineer
Financial Analyst
Sociologist






SWAZILAND
URLAN DEVELOPMElT PROJECT
MROJECT MONrTORING INDICATORS
*ASE                                 TARGETS
YEAR
PROJECT OJECTIVES                            PEIFOrWAANCE INDCATORS                MEASUREMENT         FY93      FY 34     FY 95     FY 96     FY97      FY98      FT 99    FY 2000
A. 3XLASLITATION AND EAMb
OIF INFRASTIUcU SUUVCUS
-e od wting _m .wwm                      M.md' emeer nwvcbm onbu_                                   16446    17195    18915    21190    23670    24658    26256    27669
yWWnW nsxnos                                            _   4028      4411       4744      5089      6426      5774      6134      6425
WV qbruy d rfood  _o,                    Laof of to" reobbndi
MU_                                5Wn__                                          9.9        10        10        13        13        13
Um                                 kin/w                                           13        13        13        13        13        13
MM _m, cdum                                                                                     __,
bf c~                              ___
U_mb=                              kmswuk                      92        92       100       120       124       128       132       132
TSa"os  en: 
TmI mu cawmtd
U_dm                               S ds PQIsk                  46        46        50        60        62        64        66        66
Uosw                               s d(parAmm                                      60        65        68        68        68        68
S. SUTrAINAUIZ LWAN BEILOIMIN_
I. IUnmoTUO .4L DEVOf DfT _o                                                                       _
SwUC
EmpyWlIO8oCGMt                     mmber                       53        41        36        31        23        20        17        17
0 ad U nrs                         S_                          33        38        30        38        38        36        38        38
Dn nuwood fiw wo                   S                           47        47        43        38        35        30        28        27
Ddawino*mn                         S f TOi                      7         5         5         5         4         4         3         3
*-      WhWW                                                                                                                                                  ___d 0 _                                  0
Nxec=                              ES'OII                                         3.7       4.6       5.5       2.3       3.4       2.6 
Ddit 5ernc CrcN                    S                                                                            2.6       2.7       2.7
oj DeWS                            S                                               24        21        20      20.0        19        18
Aww C a enWi                       do"                                                      150       160     150.0       150       150
MI1D  CITY CONCIL
E -  p-bcy                         Ss 6                                                      70        75        75        75        75
VeRicE N%ma                        S60                                                       70        75        75        75        75
Rdoe co/otSWD           e=                                              3.4   3    4        4.0       4.1       4.1       4.1       4.1
Laws of nm  m  _fd                 be                         3.51      3.5,      3.6       3.7       3. 7      3. 7      3.7       3 7
R1 crd                             S                          65        65         70        75        75        75        75        75
l in  ms payk                      %                                               20        20        15        15                  15
AnTm CoUgasd                       S                                                         50        50        50        50        50
M6ADA  CfTY COIMCIL
- _ mm-l ffry
fANWu 11ihdol"y                    S                                              60         70        75        75        75        75
Velce avlabby                      %                                              60         70        75        75        75        75
Re9se camodeSWD ampw               _e 3.4                                         3.4       4_0 4              _1 4_1     41        41
La  of nId mama- l                 km                         3.5       3.5       3.5       3.7       37        3.9       3.9       3.9
- ; .rme f: I~al pesf.xm 
- pRms c1d                         %                           65        65        70        75        75        75        75        75
I:rc. ib rksn pay"l                                                                20        35        23        13        13        12
AmfnCdlkw d                                                                                 50         50        50        50        50
2. LOW INCOME HOUSING/LAND REFORM
- acrkp k- ..c  hing marke              Number d4 rav:od pkb  el.          umm                                                     1445      1783       825 1_  _
NSmde .5 miWlc(n rswwJ             rmbcr                                                  1027       899       825      1282
NgmInr d Ics 'i. krs- SNL          un,brr                                                                      300






- 60 -
Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 5
SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FORECAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE SWSC
1.    The financial forecast for fiscal years 1993/94 to 1998/99 and the assumptions on which they are
based are shown below.
KEY ASSUMPTIONS
2.    The following rates of inflation were assumed in the financial projections.
Year                                     Local
1993/94                                    12
1994/95                                     11
1995/96                                    10
1996/97                                    10
1997/98                                    10
3.    The forecasts assume that tariffs would increase by 50% on April 1, 1995, 35 % on April 1, 1996,
and with inflation for the remaining period.  Miscellaneous income is assumed to increase with local
inflation. Government subvention of E 8.7 million in FY94/95, E 7.0 million in FY95/96, and E 6.5
million in FY96/97 is included. The projected increase in the number of new customers includes revenues
from standpipes and from the additional new customers that would be buying serviced plots with water
connections under the Urban Development Project.
4.    Connection charges are assumed to grow by the local inflation rate. Revenues from connections
have been calculated by multiplying connection charges by the number of connections projected each year.
5.    The forecasts have taken revenue enhancement program in to consideration through: (i) improved
billing and collection efficiency, (ii) reduction in unaccounted for water, and (iii) reduction in expenditure
through efficiency improvements, as discussed below.
Efficiency Factor (%)
Item                         1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97  1997/98
1. Salaries and Wages         -2       -2       -2        -2       -2
2. Maintenance & Services      -3       -3       -3       -3        -3
3. Transport                  -3       -3        -3       -3        -3
6.    Salaries and wages are assumed, subject to efficiency savings, to increase with local inflation rate.
The savings are assumed to be 2% per annum in real terms from 1994/95 ownwards. Chemical and
power costs have been projected on the basis of increased water production and adjusted for inflation.
Maintenance and transportation costs have been projected to increase, subject to efficiency savings, by



- 61 -
Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 5
the local inflation rate. Depreciation has been calculated on a current cost accounting basis. Bad debt
is assumed to reduce to seventy days of sales by FY99. All short-term loans are assumed to be written
off. The existing IBRD loan would be taken on by the SWSC. KfW financing for the Matsapha project
is assumed to be a grant to the SWSC. Loan funding is assumed for the Urban Development project,
except for capital expenditures for sewerage treatment facilities, which is assumed to be 50% grant
funded. It is assumed that the new IBRD loan will be on-lent to SWSC for 18 years with 5 year grace
period on principal repayments. The interest rate is assumed to be local inflation plus two percentage
points. A 0.25 percent comittment charge is assumed on the undisbursed portion of the loan.



SWAZILAND WATER SERVICES CORPORATION
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS: 1994/95 TO 2003/04
CE 000)
1904/95       1995/9O      1090/97       1997/90       1990/99       1000120       2000/01       2001/02       2002/03       200304
|tt-n                  Ra                               Forecst       Fo,.c..c      Forecast      Forecast      Forocemt      Forecast      FoFest        ParaGon       Faracast      FoFoAs t
TURNOVER
Welea supply                                             25.720        41.625        55.374        84.102        74.394        05.1* 3       00.172       111.,41       127.318       145.527
Coeooloel Feas                                              so:           042         1.135           0a0         ,104          1.244         1.229         1,379         1.335         1,404
C,, hw Charges                                                0             0            0              0            0              0             0            0             0             0
boroholeoUOoo rePst                                          so            se           09             70           07           90            109           122           137           154
Other                                                         0             0            0              0            a              0             0            U             0             0
Olhat                                                         0             0            0 O                         0 O                         0             0             0             0
Totl Operoalg Turnover                                     2e,377        42,524       5s,570         5,101       75,075        80.545         s,s 1      I13,342       12eS79u       147,174
OPERATING ExPENSES
slumws                                                    4,173         5,217         5,730         0,a12         0.,43         7.030         8.402         9.242        10.100        11.102
Chdo m tl.                                                1.100         1.207         1,309         1.372         1.413         1,447         1,4e0         1.510         1.559         1.010
oM                                                          795           000          001          1.005         1.101         1.30a         1,452         1.010         1.705         1.079
POwol                                                     2.074         2,971         3.392         3.809         4.310         4.070         5.577         0.450         7.203        0.541
UowIef/Oorvwioesulrensponl                                7.,04         9.240        10.510        11,748        13.029        14.332        15.705        17.423        19,100       21.002
0*1w                                                          0             0            0              0            0              0            0             0             00
Tosl operating Expous                                      10,705        19,513       21,910        24,314        20,05        20,000        32,070        30,243        39,959        44,195
OPERATING SURPLUS (DtEICIT)                                 *.072        23,011       34.662        40,e47        40.790        58,939        64.035        77.099        0,0031       102,979
NON-OPERATING INCOME
14100051 h  o                                             5.333           175             0           200          Ol l         1.042         1,323         1.723         1.441         2.1I
Uleosol.eeuO      a                                         209           332          372            417          407            523           500          050           735           023
Awitllod CopI  Goank                                          0             0             0             0            0              0            0             0             0             0
OVeomnt Oub 4on                                           *,o00         7,440         5,952         3,102         3.30s        ,3741          3,035         3,43        3,092         3,04s                 a'
Tetd Noen-OpoUa"gInoome                                   12,020         7,945        e.324         3.814         4,470         s.300         5,744         0.322         0.0e0         0,054
NON-OPERATING EXPENSES
DWpodallen                                                *.11         7.795         *.,23        11.301 1.178               15.030        17.900        20,309       23.280        20.472
Said Debl                                                 0,420         0.005        11.574        13,123        14.572         1.1142       10.430        21.093       24.050        27.,72
hitw_e on Eialo  L*oo a"                                                  544          400            410          352           280           224           '00o            0            02
10000_on Now LOmm                                           03          2.901         7.037        10.251        13.033        10.330        22.100        24.055       25.007        20.777
CoommamIbOf C1wo                                              0             a             0             0            0              0             0            0             0             a
Alloomed Ovettoo  -  mioplos                              4.7a4         0.042         0.530         7.100         7.909         0.700         9.e70        10.,27        11.570        12.737
AlbealOver,oodo -Nen-E1 oeCol                                07            04           04            03            03            03            03      a      3      *      3            03
Tol Non-O OpoaaM         _ Empwnes                         10.e3s        20.331a      35.14         42,424        49,900        509ses         0.301        7e0.07        04,40?        03.053
NgTPROFIT.LOSOFORTHEYEt                                     0.797         4.,27        5.472         2.237         0.350        2*t40          4.107         0.01S        10.012        IS.00
DIVIOENS PAD
OrdWAem
ACCUMUlATED SURPWI PEPEKI) SEOUl OP YEA                                   5.707        0.004        13.000        10.102        10,4J1        22.121        011.3001      *2.023        42.030
ACCUMULATIED URPLUS WEICI) END OF TIAR                 _     707 27 .4                  iS4 __0     10102         14901         22t11         2*030         32 92         47.035       s5
jAb S



SWAZILAND WATER SERVICES CORPORATION
PROJECTED CASHFLOW: 1994/95 TO 2003/04
IE 000)
s041K0       Irte/o00      5i0f          5007100       I*""          I3 "o        2001         2w0i          2002Aa        5000104
ln                                        M              Pesoda        Pw-renoil     Poemo          1640*1     PFoecast       F.looa        Fef4e4        Fo-erom s   Pebco.  Pwo     P.fq
OPENATUI PRCOIT                                             L.7S7         4.627         5472          2.227          350          2,.601t      4t07          6.010        10.012       I5666
MON CASH TrEm
Ar     b C " GCrad C                                                        o             odOos  0             0 0  0  0
O._4                                                      * 5 .151      7.705         3.023        11,301        15.170        15.030        17111         20.300       23.204_        5.472
Capilmlod loanhNI*
CASH RTAN    FPOt waMEO CAIITAL                             *. *1o       12.422        10. 25        1S3l0         50.sa7        16.294       22.111,4 2*.024             23.230        42.403
CHANGS M WOASIGO CAP4TAL
son"k                                                     1.10           (220          (225)         (21p2         (210)        (220)         (241)         (270)          (234)        (123:
Dwbw*                                                      P0O0)         .0           5.71l6)      p.sa27        (4.325)       (4,467)       (.328)        15.0414)      (0.340)       17.SSS
CIdmwo                                                    (1.Mo00         270           294           203           300           312           50           422           430           407
D    _pell                                                   24            2s            as            20            27            20           20            30            o0            35
Subliill                     Q.167         0.000         1.014        10.167        12.32S        53.940        17.001        21.414        27,116        55.103
PAYMENTS TO U)IAEHOWEAU
ld6lst                                                        0             0             0             0             0             0            0             0             0             0
CASH OKG ATEED tSBY OPENATIONO                              0707          S.o0          0.014        10.107        12.325        13.949       I? OoD        21,414        27.110        35503 
0%
CAPITAL MOVEMENTS                                                                                                                                                                                              l.A)
R..w11le Addlono0 ,                                       4.73a         4.052         7.140         06.34        23.044        16.70J         a.030         2.a07         s.01t        17.#5
UOP                                                       0.352        22.300        20.400         7.043        17.400        10,20         24.003 o.493                 1.540       1(41:
a.rm" R ell                                               2.704         7.000         0.453         1.170            12             0            0             0             0             0
Ussoapha                                                      0             0             0             0             0             0            0             0             0             0
L-T 00                                                     (000          (600)1        11100         (3ll          (00O)         (600         (600           (0)           ("0)          low.
Taw _w t 0o.elI                                              so            67            75            64            04           t0o          Its           533           549 0a6
10.100       34.205        as3229        14,737        40s509        26.407        27r 00         0.993         7.234       0*401
Cp4d WeEk Simo.  pimbiwe nvl                             (27.*00)      (47.405)      (45.070)     (10.074)      (44.332)      (36.010)      p35.26)       (26.326)      (20.174)      (23.500
CapOitalPv tokInpfte..                                     1.00             0             0             a             0             a            0             a             0             0
CopId _a u i0. _a... uapaSleroa- UP0)
CopIed Medi a  Lam. uopondIe  (PO)
(20.4311     (47.405S      t41.07q5      t16.6741      144.332)      13360103      (o0.326)      (3a3260      (20.1743      (23.30o:
CASWLOW S4APLU0 t f*W                                      (7.050)       (7.2)0)        7.S4t7    S    .040        0.S52    5     .506         7.035        (5.016)       14.40         20.270
rtit S Sls, wedraft bi                                   11.100         3.05         t32755)        4.tl2        12.160        20.753        20.29         24.054       2.5.a3        42.030
METCASHABANKVWOFYARFt                                       3505         p27555         4112         52.t60       20753         26219         34034         26535         42630         02.900
9, t



SWAZILAND WATER SERVICES CORPORATION
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET: 1994/95 TO 2003/04
IE 000)
909314      1 "41/5       1001/"        I 0197       1097/90      t100199        1960120       2000001      2001102       2002103       2003104
14rn                                      Feeous        Forecasl     Foreas        Forecast      Foreomt       Foecast      Forecast      Frem_a        Forecast      Forecast     Foreoml
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
CAPITAL FU OUITY                            20,540        21.540        20.540       20.540        26.540        20.540        20.540        200.40       20.540        20.540        29.540
Cop" (evdk-mon  suw-i.                     6.615        110.014      125.131       144.030       105.723      203,272       242.651       20.417        340,453       411.549      454.412
ACCUMULATED SURPLUS DEFICIT)                     0         a,767.        0.394        13,006       16,102        19.451        22.121       20.309        32,923        42.935        5.91l0
LONO TERM LOANS - 0* A000                                  7.200         *.400        5.600         4.000         4,000         3.200         2.400         1.600 oo                      0
LONG TERM LOAIN4  -LDPPRO                                  3.352        25.050       S2.116        $901.1        77.170        07.530       111,541      116.024       119.500       111.0I,
LON TERM LOANS-MATSAPKA                                        0            0             0             0             0            0             0             0             0             a
LONO TERM LOANS - OTHER                                    4,793         9,705        10.040       23.400        47.324        5,.117       5099.5        73.123        79.702        97.430
BARDORANT                                        0         2.704        10.504       10.957        19132        10.144        10.144        18.144       15.144        10.144        10.144
TERMO4ALReNEFITS                               500           500          627           702           707          60a           907          1.105         1,235        1.387         1.553
128.655      1502           199          27643S&5                    972          419           580            102          077          764
EMPLOYMENT OF CAPITAL
FIXEDASSETS                                1090.20       140.009       201.500      251.744       252.924       347.027       408.281      474.423       540,420       600,411       678.111
CAPITAL PHOJECTSINPROORESS                   I,ao0             0            0             0             0             0            0             0             0             0             0
CURRENT ASSETS                                                                                                                                                                                              4
0obor                                      10.235        10.,40       17,475        23.251        20.778       31,099        35.507        40.095        40.579       52.027        60,402                 1
BankrmdCa4h                                11,100        3.505             0         4.112        12,100       20.713        20.219        34.054        20,13        42.030        62.905
khnIwy                                      3,000         1.400        1,719         1.944         2,156        2,374         2,594         2,635        A___2   5,407               3,700
24,333       15,834        19.104        20.307       41.095        54,186        04,379        77,704        77,820       g0a0.4       127,110
CURRENT LUASILTES
Bok Ovedfdn                                                  0         3.755            0             0             0             0             0            0             0             a
Cr,d94a rdA Afoouas                         4.000         1.940        2.210         2,512         2,795        3.094         3.400         3,702         4,104         4.014        5.112
CunTwd PoriSon - Long TGwn Leo_                              0
Ps1nen0 od Orabdty Proeelon.                1,000         1.000        1,000         1.000         1,000        1.000         1,000         1.000         1,000         1.000         1,000
Dposl                                        a00           824           *49          074           900           927           ass          964          1,013         1,044        1,75
5,600        3,704        7,.22          4,300        4,695         5.022         2,302         5,740         8,190        0,020         7,107
NET CURRENT A 0STS (LIABIUTIES)             9.535        12,070        11.373       24.920        30.400        49.165        59.015       72.030        71,820        02,200       119,031
12a- 55      I55429        212.95        276604       3197                        407290        5
0            0            (0).          (0)          (0)            0             0             0            (0)           0) 
PERPORMC  INDICATORS
cSm,R40                                                   4.21          2.45          G.0          8.75         10.79         12.01         15.54         12.50        14.04         17.00
Reon on IA                                               2.37%         2.17%        1.00%         0.70%         0.5t%         0,57%        0.y7%         1.07%         1.43%         2.00%
R1s, -n NA fmit Pw WM_ A
TwgAStOW(Wa6IAS                                           6.1%         10.%          2.5%         12.0%         12.3%         12.2%        12.2%         12.%          12.7%         1 2.0%






- 65 -
Annex 3.3
Page I of 5
SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FORECAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CITY COUNCILS
Key Assumptions
Income
1.    Base estimates were based on 1993/94 budgets. Thereafter revaluation of the rating base is
assumed in FY95/96 and annual rating increases in line with inflation as a minimum, thereafter.
2.    Fees and charges on SWD and abbatoirs will be adjusted to allow break even by FY98/99. After
FY97/98, they will be increased in line with inflation (10%). Overall, fees and charges will be increased
in line with inflation as a minimum.
3.    Rates collection efficiency is assumed to improve to 75% of billings due to improved
administration and establishment of accurate debtor database.
4.    No provision has been made for revenue from new sources due to lack of information as to
potential scope.
5.    Costs of implementation of systems required to effect rating and valuation improvements will be
met through the resulting increase in revenues.
6.    Government subvention to the City Councils will be gradually phased out.
Expenditure
7.    Recurrent expenditure is based on the FY93/94 budgets and projected to increase overall at a
lower rate than recurrent revenues as a cost control measure.
8.    Depreciation has been introduced for the existing asset base as well as for project assets: 4% p.a.
for buildings; and 12.4 % for equipment/vehicles.
9.    Capital expenditure has a major assumption -- that the councils will use over 80% of their capital
grants from GOS between FY95/96 - FY97/98 for the Urban Development Project.
10.   Interest payments are calculated: IBRD loan @  12% p.a. (inflation + 2%), 5 yrs. grace on
principal and 20 years repayment period. Overdraft facility = (inflation = 4%), i.e. 16% p.a. This is
a function of cashflow shortfalls which would be limited to 3 months of previous year's revenues.



Mbabane
Projected Income Statement (E 000)
1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01   2001/2  2002/03
I TEN
REVENUES
RATES
Residentfal                     3822     5204      3135      4279     5289      5993     6790      7618      8548     9590    10760
comercial                         a/        a/     3422      4493     5500      6170     6923      7768      8630     9588    10652
Government                       478      336       373      1114      1286     1486      1716     1982      2289     2644      3054
SUIVENTION                       849       276      306       336      370       407      447       492         0        0         0
FEES & CHARGES
Refuse removal                   422       528      659      1154     2019      2241      2488     2762      3065     3403      3777
Abbatoir                           7         7       14        28        56      112       124      138       153       170      189
Other recoverables                 4        30       60        78       101      132       146      162       180      200       222
Other fees and charges           262       614      682       750       825      907       998     1098      1207      1328     1666
Other income a/                    0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0                       ON
TOTAL RECURRENT REVENUES        5844     6995      8651    12232    15446    17449    19633    22020    24073    26923    30321
EXPENDITURES
GENERAL
Public works (roads & dr.)    2432       2276      2640      2904     3195      3514     3865      4252      46T7     5145      5659
Uorkshop                         398       790      877       965     1061      1167      1284     1412      1553     1709      1880
Refuse Removal                   868      1085     1248      1385     1537      1706      1894     2103      2334     2591      2875
Abbatoir                          69        81       90        99       109      120       132      145       159      175       193
Other recoverables              -167       168      183       198      218       240       264      290       319      351       386
Other departments               3576     3765      4330      4893     5480      6137     6874      7699      8545     9485    10624
Extra Personnel recoended                                              286       315      346       381       893      983      1081
Project Road _aint. costs                    a        0         0        11       17        19       21        23       25        28
Project equfpaent op/mint          0        0         0         0        0       476      524       576       633      697       767
Project DepreciatIon               0        0         0       175      593       738      658       587       525      469       421
Other depreciation                 0         0      427       386      349       316      287       262       239      218       200
OPERATING INCOHE    -1666    -1171    -1144        1228     2608      2703     3486      4293      4172     5076      6207
FINANCE
Bank interest and charges        130      247       437       560     1069      1069     1063       978      800       686      473
Longtenr  interest (other)       167      110        75        47       19         0        0         0         0        0         0
UB longterm interest               0         0        0       168      739       804      804       804       806      792       776
Capital (RCCO) b/                301      369       409       451      496       545      600       660       725      798      878
RECURRENT SURPLUS   -2264    -1896    -2064           2      285       285      1019     1851      1841     2800     4080
a/ InvestwAnt lncome etc..
b/ revenue contribution to capital



Sources wnd applications of Funds
(E 000)
1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002/03
SOCUCE OF FUNDS
Recurrent surpIs.             -2264    -1896    -2064          2      285       285     1019      1851     1841      2800     4080
DeprecIation                       0        0      427       561      942      1054      945       849      764       687      621
RCCO                            301       369      409       451      496       545      600       660      725   .798         878
Grants (rood. *tc..)           3310      3000     2000      2200      248      1507     2928      3221     3543      3897     4287
Extrm Grants  eded                 0        0         0     2172     1155         0        0         0        0         0        0
Grmnts (CSD)                       0        0         0     6977      288       116        0         0        0         0        0
Loon RecieptU (non-Urban I         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Loon Reclepts (Urbmn I)           0         0        0      1397     4761       538        0         0        0         0        0
Ear_ rked Reserve                  0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Other Cash Sources c/              a        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Overdraft/deficit finance      1471      1665     2425       725        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
TOTAL CASH SOURCES             2818      3138     3197    14485      8175      4046     5492      6581     6873      8182     9866
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Property Addis.                2766      2969     2000         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Road Works                                                  4372     1403      1507     2928      3221     3543     3897      4287
SUD                                                         8374     5049      654         0         0        0
Investments                       0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Working Capital Increase        -14       -31      996      1544     1668      1770     2061      2311     2542     2895      3242
Lon Repayoent (non-Urban)        66       200      200       195       55        83        0         0        0        0         0
Loan Repayent (Urban I)         n/W       n/a      n/a       n/       n/a       n/a      n/a       n/a      121      135       151
Ear_mrked Reserves               .0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Repayment of overdraft          n/a       n/a                           0        31      503      1049      667     1254      2186
Increas  in bank balance                                                                   0        0         0        0        0
TOTAL CASH APPLIED        2818     3138      3196    14485      8175     4046      5492     6581     6873      8182     9866
ri ;b.



Nwini
Projected Inceom Statement
(E 000)
1992/93  1993/94  1994/5  1995/96  1996/97  1997?/     199/99  1999/00  2000/01   2001/2 2002/03
I TEN
REVEbES
RATES
Residentalt                     1786      1853      2237     3054      3848     4558      5165      5795     6502      795    8185
Commercial                      3551      4100     4124      5415      6629     7699      8942     9935    12021    13224   14691
Governoent                       334       382       583      654       705       775      853       938     1032      1136    1249
SLUBVENTIOt                      241       276       306      337       371      408         0         0        0         0       0
FEES & CHARGES
Refuse removal                   508       607       759      986      1282      1667     1834      2017     2219      2441    2685
Abbatolr                          73       110       330      429       558       725      943      1225     1593      2071    2692
Other recoverables               228       292       365      475       617      802       882       970      1067     1174    1291
Other fees wnd charges           638       920      1058     1164      1280      1408     1549      1704     1874      2062    2268
Other Incone a/                    0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0       0
TOTAL RECURRENT REVENUES        7359      8540     9763    12514    15290    18042    20167    22584    26308    29401   33061
EXPEROITURES                                                                                                                                                          00
GENERAL
Pubtic works (roads & dr.)      897      1004      1155     1316      1487      1681     1882      2089     2298      2528    2781
Uorkshop                        1012      1175      1304     1487      1695      1915     2164      2424     2691      2960    3256
Refuse Removul                   639       795       914     1033      1157      1296     1451      1626     1821      2039    2284
Abbatolr                         255       318       366      417       471       532      596       668      735       808     889
Other recoverables               289       425       508      591       681       802      882       970     1067      1174    1291
Other departments               37M       4278     4984      5731      6419     7190      8052      9019    10011    11112   12445
Project Ro  do/n costs  b/         0         0         0        0        10        15       25        27       30        33      36
Project eqiulpaent o/- cost        0         0         0        0         0       293      322       355      390       429     472
Project Deprecfation  a/           0         0         0        0       910      869       767       677      598       527     467
Other depreciation   s/            0         0       427      385       349       316      287       261      238       218     198
6867     7995      9658    10961    13180    14909    16430    18116    19878    21828   24119
OPERATING INCOME       492       545       105     1554      2110      3134     3737      4468     6430      7573    8942
FlINAWCE
Bank Interest and charges         58        72       205      319       334       334       23        25       26        28      29
Longterm Interest (other)        135       226       266      236       206       176      146       116       86        65      43
US longterm Interest               0         0         0      294       787       808      808       808      808       793     777                         O  >
Capital (RCCO) b/                207       317       352      387       426      469       516       567      624       686     755                          4 
RECURRENT SURPLUS       92       -70      -718      318       357      1347     2245      2953     4886      6001    7338
*/ Investment income etc..
h/ reversie contribution to capital



KANZINI
Sources and Applications of funds
(E 000)
1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02 2002/03
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Recurrent surplus                92       -70     -718       318      357      1347     2245     2953      4886     6001    7338
Depreciation                       0        0      427       385     1259      1185     1054       938      836       745     665
RCCO                            207       317      352       387      426       469      516       567      624       686     755
Grants (roads etc..)           5382      1505     2000      2200     2420       925     1191     3221      3543      3897    4287
Extra Rod Grant                   0         0        0      3474        0         0        0         0        0         0       0
Loan Reclepts (non-Urban I    1001        712        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0       0
Loan Recleptr (Urban 1)           0         0        0      2452     4106       173        0         0        0         0       0
Earomrked Reerve                552       335        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0       0
Other Cash Sources c/          -319       423        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0       0
Addh. Overdraft                                   1077       601       79         0        0         0        0         0       0
TOTAL CASH SOURCES             6915      3222     3138      9817     8647     4099      5006      7679     9889    11330   13045
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                           ON
Property Adds.                 5689      2462        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0       0
Road Works                                        2000      5674     2420       925     1191     3221      3543     3897    4287
SUD                               0         0        0      2578     4493       203        0         0        0         0       0
lnvestments                     584       190        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0
Working Capital Incresse         -82      -95      909      1336     1505      1750     2011      2186     2702      2844    3178
Loan Repsyment (non-Urban)      399       338      229       229      229       229      229      229       164       164     164
Loon Repyeent (Urban 1)           0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0      121       135     151
Earmarked Reserves              325       325        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0       0
Repayment of Overdraft            0         0        0         0        0      992       765         0        0         0       0
Increase In benk balance        n/a       n/a      n/a         0        0        0       810     2043      3360     4289    5265
TOTAL APPLICATIONS           6915      3220     3138     9817      8647     4099      5006     7679      9889    11330   13045






- 70 -
Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 6
Swaziland
Urban Development Project
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Table 1              Citywide Infrastructure - Roads and Drains
Permanent Positive Impacts
o      improved access to upgrading and development areas, resulting in reduced travel times
and reduced costs
o     reduced levels of dust and mud for pedestrians and residents beside roads
o     reduction in incidence of flooding
Permanent Potential Negative Impacts               Mitigation Measures
o     erosion & siltation                   o      topsoil and grassing provided;
designed to reduce velocities,
provide pipes, or lined drains
o     need for borrow or spoil material     o      designed for balance of cut & fill;
used to reinstate solid waste site
o     loss of housing and agricultural land  o     designed to maintain original &
existing alignments
o     loss of valuable habitats or cultural  o     designed to maintain original &
heritage sites                              existing alignments
o      impairment of water quality          o      topsoil & grassing or hydro- seeding
provided
o      increased flow rates in natural water  o    designed for frequent discharges &
courses                                     use of existing drainage
o     adverse visual impact                 o      shade tree planting along road
alignments provided
o      increased accident risk              o      direct access limited and footpaths
provided; speed bumps may be
required - to be monitored
o      increased noise                      o      roadside trees provided; vehicle
inspections advised
o      increased air pollution from vehicle  o     vehicle inspections advised
emissions



- 71 -
Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 6
Table 2                 Citywide Infrastructure - Water Supply
Permanent Positive Impacts
o      improved health as a result of improved quality and availability of water
Permanent Potentia Negative Impacts                  Mitigation Measures
l o    reduced flows in rivers under low flow    o   requirement for compensation flow
conditions                                    detailed
o      transfer of flows between catchments   o      requires further study
o      potential risk of contamination of raw  o     police, city council health inspectors
water supplies                                and SEA alerted to danger
o      erosion from pipeline routes           o      designed for appropriate
reinstatement
o      loss of valuable habitats or cultural  o      avoided in design
heritage sites as a result of pipelines
and new works construction
o      impact of waterworks sludge on         o      alternatives considered in detailed
watercourses                                  design
o      visual impact of service reservoirs    o      sited away from hill and ridge crests
o      potential risk of delivery of unsafe   o      laboratory to be provided at works
water
o      potential risks associated with use of  o     fail safe designs included
chlorine gas
o      increased quantities of sewage         o      sewage treatment capacity increased
generated



- 72 -
Annex 4.1
Page 3 of 6
Table 3        Citywide Infrastructure - Sewage Treatment & Sewerage
Permanent Positive Impacts
o      improved health as a result of improved access to sewerage systems
o      improved health of downstream river water users
o     reduction of nuisance to residents near existing works
o      improvement in river biology
o      increased potential for beneficial reuse of effluent and sludge
o     potential for improved river fisheries
Permanent Potential Negative Impacts    |          Mitigation Measures           I
o      degradation of receiving water quality    o  overflows and simple treatment
because of stormwater overflows or          process designed
treatment process failure
o     public health hazards in vicinity of  o      City Councils to carry out public
discharges during normal operation          awareness program
o     smell or fly nuisance in vicinity of new   o  affected homesteads moved
treatment works
o     groundwater contamination from        o      none required
maturation ponds
o      visual impact of new treatment works    o   tree screen provided
o     potential health hazard from sludge   o      sludge kept within treatment sites
disposal
o      loss of housing, agricultural or grazing   o  homesteads moved, otherwise only
land because of new works construction      grazing land affected
o      loss of valuable habitats or cultural  o    mature trees and wetlands retained
heritage sites as a result of pipeline and  at treatment sites; pipeline routes to
new works construction                      be carefully reinstated
o     erosion from pipeline routes          o      to be reinstated by contractor
o      risks to works operators and sewer   o      operators to be trained in awareness
gangs from gas accumulating in              of and dealing with risk
confined spaces
o     risks to works operators and sewer    o      enforce industrial effluent controls
gangs from toxic substances disposed of     and provide monitoring
in sewers
o     public opposition to new treatment    o      conmmunity consultation and
works sites                                 education systems and process
I       established



- 73 -
Annex 4.1
Page 4 of 6
Table 4             Citywide Infrastructure - Solid Waste Disposal
Permanent Positive Impacts
o      improved health as a result of reduction in informal disposal of solid waste (on open
plots or in on-site pits)
o      elimination of fly, smell and vermin nuisance from temporary disposal site (Mbabane)
o      reduction in pollution of watercourse from present disposal site (Manzini)
o      local elimination of erosion at new disposal site
o      improved local access as a result of new access road construction
Pranent Potential Negative Impacts   TMitigation Measures]
o      contamination of groundwater at       o      minimised through design measures
disposal sites                               - to be monitored
o      contamination of surface water at     o      drainage provided and homestead
disposal sites                               (Manzini) to be relocated
o      contamination of water supplies       o      new water supply provided
o      soil contamination at disposal sites  o      avoided in design
o      loss of housing or agricultural land  o      none required
o      loss of valuable habitats or cultural  o     none required
heritage sites as a result of new solid
waste disposal sites
o      noise and dust nuisance from new      o      no housing near - 200m buffer zone
disposal sites                               provided
o      vermin nuisance from new disposal     o      no housing near - proper site
sites                                        operation essential
o      increased road traffic to new disposal    o  paved and improved access provided
sites
o      dust and litter on access roads       o      vehicle cleaning provided on-site
o      visual impact of new disposal sites   o      tree screen provided in buffer zone
o      public opposition to new disposal sites   o  public consultation process required
(Manzini only)
o      gas production at disposal sites      o      none anticipated - to be monitored
o      potential for adverse impact on       o      incentives to recycling to be
recycling initiatives                        investigated



- 74 -
Annex 4.1
Page 5 of 6
Table 5           Site Speciric Development - Msunduza, Nkwalini & Moneni
Permanent Positive Impacts
o      improved health and security as a result of improved roads, drainage, water supply, sanitation,
solid waste removal, communal facilities and streetlighting
o      improved aesthetics due to planning, tree planting and provision for open space
o      improved security and mobility due to provision of secure tenure
o      improved potential to invest in housing through provision of secure tenure
o      improved local access as a result of improved roads and reduction in time/cost of pedestrian
and vehicle access to other areas for work, recreation and other reasons
o      improved provision for community services
o      increased revenue to City Council from property taxes & improved provision of City Council
services to residents
[  Permanent Potential Negative Impacts      IMitigation Measures
o      loss of housing or agricultural land      o       designed to maintain original alignments
o      resettlement required of homesteads       o       resettlement plan to be implemented
affected by new services
o      loss of valuable habitats or cultural heritage  o  vulnerable habitats excluded from
sites as a result of new solid waste disposal    development area & protected
sites
o      need for borrow or spoil material for road    o   designed for balance of cut & fill
building
o      public opposition to project resulting from    o  affordable service costs designed,
capital cost recovery and new recurrent          community consultation & approval
cost charges                                     incorporated in design
o      increased accident risk from road traffic  o      road widths reduced, signage & speed
bumps provided
o      increased noise                           o       roadside trees provided
o      increased air pollution from vehicle      o       vehicle inspections advised
emissions
o      increased quantities of sewage generated  a       sewage treatment capacity increased
o      erosion from pipeline routes              o       designed for suitable reinstatement
o      erosion from roads on steep slopes        o       road surfacing & drains provided
o      smell or fly nuisance from pit latrines   o       pit latrine design minimises impact
o      groundwater contamination from pit latrines  o    increased sewerage provided - City
& septic tanks                                   Council to monitor
o      erosion from development of steep &       o       development excluded on slopes greater
fragile slopes                                   than 25%



- 75 -
Annex 4.1
Page 6 of 6
Table 6             Citywide Infrastructure and Site Speciflc Development
Temporary Impacts during Implementation (Construction) Phase
Temporary Potential Negatve Impaets     |             Mitgation Measures
Contractor's Temporary Facilities:
o      siting of contractor's facilities        o      only permitted on demarcated land
o      temporary water supplies                 o      to be to potable standard only
o      temporary sanitation                     o      no pollution permitted
o      fuel spill containment                   o      spill containment to be provided
o      waste disposal                           o      permitted at authorised location only
o      workers safety                           o      safety training to be provided
o      import of workforce                      o      to be minimised
Site Clearance & Construction activities:
o      flora conservation                       o      areas protected as identified
o      tree cutting                             o      only permitted by approval
o      topsoil removal                          o      to be set aside for reuse
o      noise control                            o      within stated limits - monitoring
equipment provided
o      dust & vehicle emission control          o      water to be used, monitoring equipment
provided
o      safety of public                         o      site fencing to be provided
o      pollution of streams                     o      filter fences to be used
o      use of explosives                        o      approved procedures to be used
o      traffic disruption                       o      signs and temporary controls to be
provided
o      pedestrian disruption                    o      temporary footpaths to be provided
o      borrow pit & spoil areas                 o      to be specified, approved & reinstated
o      protection of slopes                     o      temporary drainage to be provided,
program to avoid rains
o      protection of private property           o      temporary fencing provided, work-force
control required
o      specific disruption (eg. schools)        o      contractor to program to minimise



- 76 -
Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 2
SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
1.    Economic rate of return (ERR) calculations have been carried out for those project
components where the associated benefits can be quantified in a meaningful way. In total, ERR
was calculated for two of the project components, totalling E 80.0 million of investments, or about
55% of total project base costs plus physical contingencies. The project components are: (i) urban
roads and drainage; (ii) water supply and sanitation.
2.    Project cost streams are based on the cost estimates provided in Annex 2.2 and include
civil works, equipment and machines, operating and maintenance cost provisions,engineering
design and physical contingencies. Economic costs and benefits are calculated net of taxes and
duties. Economic costs are expressed in December 1993 prices, adjusted to remove taxes and
duties, with a conversion factor of 1.0, given the relative openess of the Swazi economy. A brief
summary of economic rate of return analysis of each component is presented below.
3.    Benefits were measured in terms of property value increases realized on plot delivery.
Based on sample surveys in the target communities and in comparable areas with infrastructure
levels similar to project targets, property values were expected to increase from about E15/square
meter to E25-27/square meter on plot delivery. ERR calculated for the community of Msunduza
is more than 70%. This would decrease to about 50% with a 10% reduction in benefits (property
values); and 46% with a 10% increase in capital costs. The relatively high ERRs obtained indicate
the significant value attached not only to improved access to potable water and clean surroundings,
but also to the security of tenure that will be conferred by the Leasehold Agreement.
4.    Water suDDlv and sanitation. Benefits calculated are only meant to be illustrative of the
general magnitude of the economic benefits; financial revenues represent only the rninimum
amount that consumers are willing to pay for clean, potable water which also has significant
gualitative advantages over free water from unprotected sources. Benefits were measured as: the
(i) incremental water supplies available for end consumption as a result of increased treatmnent and
delivery capacity as well as reduction of unaccounted-for water through the leak detection and
repair provision; and (ii) increased capacity for sewerage treatment. No seperate evaluation was
done for sewage, since most of its benefits are qualitative, rather than quantitative. Therefore,
sewage benefits were added to water revenues and sewage costs were added to water project costs.
Without the project, it was estimated that continued deterioration of the water system would
reduce water availability by about 2% p.a. With the project, total treated water availability would
increase to about 14.0 million megalitres/day in Mbabane and 25.0 million megalitres/day in
Manzini as the physical system leakages reduce from 45% to about 25% in both systems. Billing
and collection efficiency was assumed at 100% for economic valuation purposes.



- 77 -
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 2
5.    The adjusted financial rate of return was estimated at 18% in the Mbabane system and
46% in the Manzini system. Sensitivity analyses indicate that a 10% increase in capital costs
would reduce ERR to 16% (Mbabane) and 42% (Manzini); and with a 10% reduction in end
water available, ERR would be 15% (Mbabane) and 39% (Manzini). If both incidences happened
at the same time, ERR would be 14% (Mbabane) and 36% (Manzini).
6.    City Roads and Drainage  Benefits have been measured as savings in vehicle operating
costs arising from less wear and tear and lower fuel consumption on the improved road surfaces.
It was conservatively assumed that passenger time savings would be of minor importance and that
road maintenance costs would not change significantly. ERRs on four of the five project roads
were above 10% and rose as high as 60% on one congested road.



- 78 -
Annex 4.3
Page I of 2
SWAZILAND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.    Report on Infrastructure, Human Settlements Upgrading and Serviced Sites for Housing,
Industrial Estate Expansion (3 Volumes), DHV, January 1990.
2.    Review of Township Administration and Town Councils (3 Volumes), DEVCO,
September 1992.
3.    Swaziland Water and Sewerage Board Organization and Management Study
(7 Volumes), Wessex , May 1990.
4.     Ministry of Natural Resources and National Housing Board: Manpower and Training
Needs Assessment by Rens de Groot, January 1990.
5.    Construction Industry Report, lain L. Ross Steve Hall, April 1992.
6.    Review of the Swaziland National Housing Board, Dr. Judith A. Hermanson, Cooperative
Housing Foundation, October 1992.
7.    Financial Sector and Housing Finance Report, Faillace, October 1992
8.    Land and Housing Market Survey, M. Hoek-Smith, August 1992.
9.     Land Use, Road Planning and Traffic Study, JBE', January 1993.
10.   Urban Development Project Overview, JBE, May 1993.
11.   Citywide Infrastructure, JBE, May 1993.
12    Institutional Review, Land Management, Land Tenure and Survey, JBE, January 1993.
13.   Report on Institutional Assessment and Framework, JBE, May 1993.
'John Burrow and Partners Swaziland in joint venture with Euroconsult.



- 79 -
Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 2
14.   Strategic Planning Framework and Project Definition, JBE, January 1993.
15.   Environmental Impact Assessment, Site Specific Development, JBE, May 1993.
16.   Environmental Impact Assessment Citywide Infrastructure, JBE, May 1993.
17.   Economic and Financial Analysis, JBE, January 1993.
18.   Community Development and Participation Report, JBE, January 1993.
19.   Technical report 3, Urban Development Project Summary, JBE, November 1993.
20.   Historical and Forecast Financial Performance, Swaziland Water and Sewerage
Board, World Bank, January 1994.
21.   Historical and Forecast Financial Performance, Mbabane and Manzini City
Councils, World Bank, January 1994.
22.   Economic Analysis of Project Components, World Bank, January 1994.
23.   Project Implementation Manual (pending).



IBRD 25603
*                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~311  /3,2
SOUTH             ~4
..  , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  - - ~~~~~~~~~~~AFRICA  ~PigsPeak
-26       t    P;g gs                 26-
*            \                 v                         t iul MBULUZI RIVER INTAKE                                /                             i
AND PUMPING STATION  /MABAANE
I*  \  \   4 T   RAW   WATER                          /                                     S      '4O
4.                        *  > K |RISINGMAIN                                 1Mnz6i                      S,tek,\
4.          _ _ _-~ \  \    THEMBELIHLE  WOODLANDS               - -                     '               I ' i
_ ~ ~ '      ^  t \RISING MAIN        WTW      |                                                   i_ 
. ~4.                EXTENTION  |                                                      H                           1 .7
)          t                <                    <         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~     ~     ~~-27 '   Hlothikhulut3i2-
S           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
w4 n \ ^s^s _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31l'''',_,,,,
PROPOSED SOLID
WASTE DISPOSAL  * *   MAHWALALA SERVICE I
SITE B if w* r RESERVOIR                >     S~~    
t ;) '* ~~MANZANA/HILTOP                                     iMBABAN E _ 
|                 -                                              <;  ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~MSUINDUZA  
AHAWAMAHWALLA  MNSTRIBUTION MAIN
COLLECTOR  COLLECTOR          CHECKERS MAIN
g         s ^ ^                               u -         CORPORATION                            _
5*s       (.                            ROAD4.
0000,    HECKEs 
URBANMSWAZILAND H*AA MAI
URBANDEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                             '1'
PROJECT COMPONENTS - MBABANE CEN                                                  "
PROJECT COMPONENTS:                  SOUTHRN'
*--COLLECTORS                       OUTFALL CHECKERSMAI
CORPORATION ROAD                     SEWER        ffi {I
WATER SUPPLY MAINS                                                 SEWER ROUTE
I' \           TO UPPER SITE
SEWERS1  
SEWAGE TREATMENT SITES CT
PROPOSED WASTE DISPOSAL SITES                       _ 
SEWER ROUTE
TO TEA ROAD SITE
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                UPPER TREATMENT
A      WORKS SITE
MAIN ROADS
- --- TOWNSHIP BOUNDARY
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-B . -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
___________________________                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COLLECTOR SEE   )TEA ROAD
r  FROM HOTELS    ~                    TREATMENT
\ZIMBABWE |                                                                                                         O    S
NAMIBIA   BOTSWANA                                                                                                                        B
T..noob-rorr, nd on y
/ SWAZILAND_;J-             onther  mop don
onh,, r-p do
ieply o- th. part of
- i    SOUTH  r                    Th. World honl Groop.
AFRICA .4-LESOTHO            O any endorsent                                                                                     \
INDIAN           o-oCCeC o  C
OCEAN
ARCH 1 994






IBRD 25604
j tZIMBABWE_
NAM1B1A  J          t       tq
N I  BOTSWANA ,,>-                                   '
A~~~~~~~NWN PAQURK    RJCTCMONNS- AZN
\   V       FONDS    -          s         g/         %     FONDO
\% SOUTH                                         ,   g             OUTFAAI
INDIAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~AI  OD
SEWERASW                                   -      T S   BOUNDARY
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DSRC BOU< 'S INDARE
ETICULATION~- -  NTRATOALBONARE
AF\ RICAN DEVEOPMENT PROJE CT
<          |  ~MAINZROAD
/     t                   .          <                           PROJECT COMPONENTSIMNEN
_t                 _                                  -/                                         OD
MBABANE  7                                                    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REALREQURDFO
j \ | \, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEWERS
ZAKHE                                    QSAGE REATMN   WORKS
OUA    T                                                            LANDFILL SITE
SEWEECNDRYROD
NkA ROAD     *     UTAL                           AN OD
-                                                 RESERVE FOR                                    The hoodor   lors- SEWNS
\                                                          DI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERCT ONDARY ROA
11s  .-'s          ~~~~~/12V
SOUTH   ,'                                                                                                                                 n i
-2AFRICA ,{1Piggs Pe;k  '    )        6V> 
,-                                                                                                                   on sho  \o Jo no
o- MBAsANE - , ( A \ S~c                                                     AREA REQUIRED FOR
j o jAi                       ',                                           5jpk,*    o he p
. w $' \ T s S i AR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EA REQUIRED FOR
t;   _   Z  1t         \                        0      \LONG ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOR          LANDFILL SITE  Th. b-,d.  /,n-
27   ~~~~~~~HIatIttkholo@  j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th. Word Bo-k Gsocp,
-27 \ Hlathikhuiu3                  S | 27'-                                         >                                             - ) \ \  ony'Ludgmenf on gue oyl
or o -y endorseen
(_,   i    A      9                  \          \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o or ccepronce ol s,ch
3  -    -   -  --o--  --r-3,2
31    ~ U_,_,_,_,_ -32'                         t                         \M\
MARCH 1 994



