Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3807 SW
                              Loan Agreement
                        (Urban Development Project)
                                  between
                           KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated July 28, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3807 SW
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1995, between KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has issued a statement dated
September, 1993, describing a program of action, objectives and
policies designed to achieve the adjustment of the Borrower's
urban sector (hereinafter called the Program), and declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
    (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    (C)   Part B.1 of the Project will be carried out by Mbabane
City Council (MbCC), Part B.2 of the Project will be carried
out by Manzini City Council (MzCC), Part C of the Project will
be carried out by Swaziland Water Services Corporation (SWSC),
and Part D of the Project will be carried out by the National
Housing Board (SNHB) all with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Page  2
MbCC, MzCC, SWSC and SNHB the proceeds of the Loan as provided
in this Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the SWSC Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and SWSC, and
in the SNHB Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and SNHB;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
    under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "SWSC Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and Swaziland Water Services Corporation of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the SWSC Project Agreement;
    (b)   "SNHB Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and National Housing Board of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the SNHB
Project Agreement;
    (c)   "SWSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SWSC pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
SWSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
    (d)   "MbCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and MbCC pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
MbCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
    (e)   "MzCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and MzCC pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
MzCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
    (f)   "SNHB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SNHB pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
SNHB Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  3
    (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (h)   "SWSC" means Swaziland Water Services Corporation,
established pursuant to the Water Services Corporation Act, No.
12 of 1992;
    (i)   "MbCC" means Mbabane City Council, established pursuant
to the Urban Government Act, No. 8 of 1969;
    (j)   "MzCC" means Manzini City Council, established pursuant
to the Urban Government Act, No. 8 of 1969;
    (k)   "SNHB" means the National Housing Board established
pursuant to the National Housing Board Act, No. 3 of 1988;
    (l)   "MHUD" means the Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development of the Borrower;
    (m)   "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee, referred to
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
    (n)   "PCU" means Project Coordination Unit within MHUD,
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
    (o)   "TSU" means the Technical Support Unit established
pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
    (p)   "SNL" means Swazi Nation Land, being land held by the
King in trust for the Swazi Nation;
    (q)   "FY or Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year
starting April 1 and ending March 31 of the following year; and
    (r)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advances granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to letters dated October 1, 1992, and June 23, 1993,
from the Bank to the Borrower and countersigned by the Borrower
on February 8, 1993 and July 2, 1993, respectively.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of twenty-nine million dollars
($29,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
Page  4
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
Page  5
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Program and Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)   shall carry out Part A of the Project through
                MHUD, cause MbCC to carry out Part B.1 of the
                Project, MzCC to carry out Part B.2 of the
                Project and the Swaziland Electricity Board to
                carry out Part B.3 of the Project, all with due
                diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                appropriate administrative, financial,
                engineering and urban development practices and
                shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                facilities, services and other resources required
                for such Parts of the Project; and
         (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its
                other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
                Borrower shall cause SWSC and SNHB to perform in
                accordance with the provisions of the SWSC
                Project Agreement and the SNHB Project Agreement,
                respectively, all the obligations of SWSC and
                SNHB therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
                taken all action, including the provision of
                funds, facilities, services and other resources,
                necessary or appropriate to enable SWSC and SNHB
                to perform such obligations, and shall not take
                or permit to be taken any action which would
                prevent or interfere with such performance.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out and cause to be
carried out Parts A, B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The Borrower shall relend: (i) $2,200,000 equivalent of
the proceeds of the Loan for Part B.1 of the Project to MbCC,
(ii) $1,900,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan for Part
B.2 of the Project to MzCC, (iii) $11,800,000 equivalent of the
proceeds of the Loan for Part C of the Project to SWSC, and
(iv) $2,000,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan for Part
D of the Project to SNHB, under subsidiary loan agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and MbCC, MzCC, SWSC and
SNHB respectively, all under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank, which shall include, inter
alia, an interest rate equivalent to the rate of inflation plus
two percentage points per annum, principal repayable in 18
years including a grace period of five years, for MbCC, MzCC
and SWSC, principal repayable in six years including a grace
period of three years for SNHB, and institutional action plans
and performance targets satisfactory to the Bank. For purposes
of this Section "rate of inflation" means the rate established
at the beginning of the Borrower's Fiscal Year, based on the
average consumer price index, published by the Borrower's
Central Statistics Office, for the preceding calendar year.
Page  6
    (d)   The Borrower shall make available as a grant: (i)
$1,400,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan for Part B.1
of the Project to MbCC; and (ii) $5,400,000 equivalent of the
proceeds of the Loan for Part C of the Project to SWSC.
    (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the MbCC,
MzCC, SWSC and SNHB Subsidiary Loan Agreements, respectively,
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the MbCC, MzCC, SWSC or
SNHB Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
    (f)   The Borrower shall cause MbCC and MzCC to duly perform
all their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreements. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree the
Borrower shall ensure that neither MbCC nor MzCC shall take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the MbCC or MzCC Subsidiary
Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of: (a) Part C of the Project shall be carried out by
SWSC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the SWSC Project Agreement;
and (b) Part D of the Project shall be carried out by SNHB
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the SNHB Project Agreement.
    Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with its resettlement and
compensation policy, satisfactory to the Bank, adopted on May
6, 1994.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, prior to commencing construction on
each upgrading site under Part D of the Project, furnish to the
Bank resettlement and compensations plans satisfactory to the
Bank, for each such upgrading site.
    Section 3.05. The Borrower, shall with MbCC and MzCC, not
later than February 1, 1995, adopt an Urban Government Policy
Framework, satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that, in each year,
adequate provision is made in its budget, for its share of the
costs of Parts B, C and D of the Project and the costs of its
agencies carrying out said Parts of the Project, which are
reflected in its budget.
    Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure the MbCC and MzCC,
respectively, shall consult with the Borrower and the Bank,
prior to incurring any new long-term debt obligation.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and (ii) cause
MbCC and MzCC to maintain records and accounts adequate to
Page  7
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operation and financial condition of MbCC and MzCC, and the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B.1
and B.2 of the Project.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause MbCC and MzCC to:
          (i)   have the records, accounts and financial
                statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                and expenses, and related statements), referred
                to in paragraph (a) of this Section including
                those for the Special Account for each fiscal
                year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by
                independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year: (A) certified copies of said
                financial statements for such year as so audited,
                and (B) the report of such audit by said
                auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and financial
                statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause MbCC and MzCC
to:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
    Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, for FY 1995/1996 and FY
1996/1997, provide a mix of real tariff increases and
subventions to SWSC, to enable SWSC to cover its total
operating costs and interest expenses, and to enable SWSC to
cover such costs without subventions from FY 1997/1998 onwards,
with the exception of subventions for direct recurrent expenses
of the water supply schemes in Siteki and Nhlangano. For the
purposes of this Section, the term "total operating costs"
means all costs related to operations, including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a current cost
accounting basis or other basis in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.
Page  8
    Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that from FY
1995/1996 onwards, there are sufficient adjustments to user
charges for solid waste disposal to enable MbCC and MzCC to
cover operating costs, including depreciation and interest
expense.
                                 ARTICLE V
                Management and Operations of MbCC and MzCC
    Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause MbCC and MzCC
respectively, to carry on their operations and conduct their
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
urban sector practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by adequate levels of competent
staff.
    Section 5.02. The Borrower shall ensure that MbCC and MzCC
shall at all times operate and maintain their plant, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and urban
sector practices.
    Section 5.03. The Borrower shall ensure that MbCC and MzCC
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE VI
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   SWSC or SNHB shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the SWSC or SNHB Project Agreements,
respectively.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that SWSC or SNHB
will be able to perform their obligations under the SWSC or
SNHB Project Agreements, respectively.
    (c)   The Water Services Corporation Act of 1992, and
National Housing Board Act of 1988 shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of SWSC and SNHB
respectively, to perform any of their obligations under their
respective Project Agreement.
    (d)   MbCC or MzCC shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the Project.
    (e)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that MbCC or MzCC
respectively, shall be able to perform their obligations under
the Project.
    (f)   The Urban Government Act of 1969, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of MbCC or MzCC
respectively, to perform any of their obligations under the
Project.
    (g)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
Page  9
disestablishment of SWSC, SNHB, MbCC or MzCC respectively, or
for the suspension of their operations.
    Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (d) and (e)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
    (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (f) and (g) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VII
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   the MbCC, MzCC, SWSC and SNHB Subsidiary Loan
Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
MbCC, MzCC, SWSC and SNHB, respectively;
    (b)   the Borrower shall have enacted a new Rating Act,
satisfactory to the Bank;
    (c)   the Borrower shall have acquired the land for sewage
treatment facilities in Mbabane and Manzini under Part C.4 of
the Project;
    (d)   the Borrower shall have approved the model leasehold
agreement for Swazi Nation Land, satisfactory to the Bank;
    (e)   the Borrower shall have appointed the staff of the PCU
and TSU required for the commencement of Project
implementation, with experience, qualifications and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
    (f)   the Borrower shall have completed the Project
Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
    (a)   that the SWSC and SNHB Project Agreements have been
duly authorized or ratified by SWSC and SNHB, respectively, and
are legally binding upon SWSC and SNHB, respectively, in
accordance with their terms;
    (b)   that the MbCC, MzCC, SWSC and SNHB Subsidiary Loan
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and MbCC, MzCC, SWSC and SNHB, respectively and are
legally binding upon the Borrower and MbCC, MzCC, SWSC and SNHB
respectively in accordance with their terms;
    Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 8.01. The Minister at the time responsible for
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Page  10
Conditions.
    Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 443
          Mbabane, Swaziland
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                MINFIN                           2109 WD
                Mbabane
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                        248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.                  82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
                       By /s/ Mary Kanya
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.        The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated             % of
                               (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:                                      85%
    (a)  for Part B.1              2,300,000
Page  11
         (b) of the
         Project
    (b)  for Part B.2                700,000
         (b) of the
         Project
    (c)  for Part C of            14,300,000
         the Project
    (d)  for Part D of             1,700,000
         the Project
(2) Equipment                      1,500,000          100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures
(3) Consultants'                   2,700,000          85%
    services,
    and training
(4) Refunding of                   1,500,000          Amounts due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                  suant to Section
    tion Advance                                      2.02 (c) of this
                                                      Agreement
(5) Unallocated                    4,300,000
                                  __________
         TOTAL                    29,000,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments
made for expenditures under Categories (1)(b) and (2) until the
Borrower has completed acquisition of land required for the
Manzini solid waste disposal site; and (c) payments made for
expenditures under Category (1)(d) until the Borrower has
furnished to the Bank the resettlement and compensation plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the site concerned.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods, works and services not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to (i) provide a basis for
sustainable urban development through emphasis on policy
reform, institutional development, pilot land reform,
participatory development and housing solutions for moderate
and low income urban households; and (ii) address critical
urban infrastructure needs.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Policy and Institutional Reform
1.  Support for the development of urban government policies and
legislation including:
Page  12
    (a)   an urban government policy to define the framework
within which local authorities will operate;
    (b)   review and enactment of urban sector legislation and
regulations;
    (c)   review of urban and peri-urban land policies; and
    (d)   assessment of the feasibility of establishing a
secondary market for mortgages.
2.  Improving the long-term effectiveness and efficiency of
urban sector institutions through: (a) assistance to build a
cadre of trained and experienced planning professionals and to
support long-term capacity building in MHUD, including the
provision of workshops and study tours; (b) institutional
strengthening of MbCC and MzCC, including twinning arrangements
and training programs for staff; (c) institutional
strengthening of SNHB, including, inter alia, project and
financial management capabilities, human resources development
and the provision of regional workshops and study tours; (d)
institutional strengthening of the restructured SWSC including,
inter alia, expertise and overseas training of SWSC staff, a
staff training program and the automation of the accounting and
Management Information Systems.
3.  (a)   Building capacity in the coordination of land survey
activities in the Surveyor-General's Office.
    (b)   Building capacity for examination and registration of
deeds at the Registrar of Deeds Office.
    (c)   Building capacity for carrying out environmental
monitoring by the Swaziland Environment Authority.
    (d)   Supervision of investment contracts and preparation of
preliminary layout of areas to be included in the next phase of
the Borrower's urban development program.
Part B:   Rehabilitation and Expansion of City Roads and
          Services
1.  For Mbabane:
    (a)   Rehabilitation, upgrading and extension of about 4.8 km
of roads in Mbabane, together with improved drainage and road
maintenance programs.
    (b)   Development of a new waste disposal site and
reclamation of existing sites.
    (c)   Acquisition of solid waste vehicles and equipment.
2.  For Manzini:
    (a)   Rehabilitation, upgrading and extension of about 5.4 km
of roads, together with improved drainage and road maintenance
programs.
    (b)   Development of a new waste disposal site and
reclamation of the existing site.
    (c)   Acquisition of solid waste vehicles and equipment.
3.  Relocation of about 15 km of power lines and upgrading of
about 4 km of 11 kv feeders for Mbabane and relocation of about
7 km of power lines and upgrading of about 4 km of 11 kv
feeders for Manzini.
Part C:   Rehabilitation and Expansion of the Water and Sewerage
          Services
Page  13
1.  In Mbabane, (a) construction of a new raw water intake and
pumping station together with about 6.8 km rising mains from
the intake to the treatment works, (b) extension to the
Woodlands water treatment plant, (c) construction of a new
booster pumping station at Checkers, a 3.2 M1 service reservoir
in Mahwalala and about 4.5 km distribution mains.
2.  In Manzini, construction of a 3 M1 reservoir coupled with
about 6 km reticulation.
3.  Leak detection and mains replacement in both Mbabane and
Manzini to reduce system losses.
4.  In Mbabane: (a) construction of new sewage treatment works
and associated outfalls, (b) rehabilitation of the Ghobolo
ponds for treatment of waste water, and (c) construction of
about 2.5 km of sewage reticulation.
5.  In Manzini, construction of: (a) new sewage treatment works
and associated outfalls, and (b) about 2 km of sewage
reticulation.
6.  Decommissioning of existing Quarantine and Zakhele ponds and
site reclamation.
Part D:   Residential Housing Sites Including On-Site
          Infrastructure
1.  Construction and upgrading of on-site infrastructure
including roads, footpaths, drainage, water supply, sanitation
(including sewers, where applicable), communal structures such
as water points, wash areas, refuse collection points, street
lighting and landscape works and resettlement, where
applicable, for the following informal urban housing sites:
    (a)   about 1350 existing homesteads, about 430 in-fill
residential and about 80 non-residential plots in Msunduza, in
Mbabane;
    (b)   about 730 existing homesteads, about 1050 in-fill
residential and about 50 non-residential plots in Nkwalini in
Mbabane; and
    (c)   about 160 existing homesteads, about 310 in-fill
residential and about 30 non-residential plots in Moneni in
Manzini.
2.  Provision for the servicing of about 500 plots in remaining
sections of Nkwalini in Mbabane and about 300 plots in a
portion of Mhobodleni in Manzini.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
    beginning July 15, 2000
    through   July 15, 2014                    965,000
And on January 15, 2015                      1,015,000
Page  14
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                               Premium
                                       The interest rate (expressed
                                       as a percentage per annum)
                                       applicable to the Loan
                                       on the day of prepayment
                                       multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Page  15
1.        Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.        To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$800,000 or more, and for goods into bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Swaziland may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
    Items or groups of items for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $800,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
Page  16
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower, MbCC, MzCC, SWSC and SNHBin carrying out the 
Project, the Borrower, MbCC, MzCC, SWSC and
SNHB respectively, shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, of (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the
Project, the PSC comprised of representatives from all agencies
and departments involved in the implementation of the Project
and chaired by the Principal Secretary of MHUD.
2.  (a)   The Borrower shall establish and maintain, the PCU
within MHUD to, inter alia, coordinate and supervise Project
implementation. The PCU shall, inter alia, be responsible for
the following:
          (i)   coordination of implementation by other executing
                agencies, monitoring key targets and indicators
                and evaluation of overall project performance;
         (ii)   management and coordination of institutional
                strengthening (training and technical
                assistance), resettlement and compensation,
                review of environmental monitoring, community
                participation, and monitoring project impacts;
Page  17
        (iii)   identification of implementation gaps and
                ensuring the appropriate action is taken,
                confirmation of the availability of counterpart
                funding for the proposed project; and
         (iv)   coordination of procurement, preparation of
                consolidated project accounts, management of the
                special account and disbursement of funds and
                preparation of quarterly progress reports to be
                submitted to the Bank;
    (b)   the PCU shall, at a minimum, be staffed with a full-
time coordinator, a senior planning officer, a community
liaison officer and an accountant, all with experience and
qualifications and according to terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, as well as administrative staff.
3.  The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion
of the Project, a TSU with staff and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist: (a) the PCU with Project
implementation; and (b) where required, MHUD, MbCC, MzCC, SWSC
and SNHB with their institutional strengthening programs.
4.  The Borrower shall, no later than two months after the
Effectiveness Date, carry out with the Bank, MbCC, MzCC, SWSC
and SNHB, a Project Launch Workshop. Community representatives,
supporting institutions, including the Swaziland Building
Society, the Swaziland Electricity Board and Borrower agencies
responsible for community facilities, shall also participate in
the Project Launch Workshop.
5.  The Borrower shall: (a) by July 31 in each year carry out
with the Bank, MbCC, MzCC, SWSC, SNHB, Swaziland Building
Society, Swaziland Electricity Board and other Borrower
agencies responsible for the construction of community
facilities and community representatives, a Project
Implementation review;
     (b)  such reviews shall monitor, inter alia; (i)
overall Project execution with regard to the implementation
status of the policy, institutional and physical investment
components of the Project, (ii) the effectiveness of Project
implementation arrangements, (iii) actual performance compared
to Project and institutional targets and institutional action
plans, (iv) the Borrower's budgetary commitments for the
following year, including funding for community facilities, (v)
status of implementation of community facilities, and (vi)
provision of mortgage and home improvement loans for Project
beneficiaries; and
    (c)   following each such review, detailed action plans will
be prepared for the next year of Project implementation,
including measures to implement the recommendations arising
from the policy and legislative reviews under Part A of the
Project.
6.  (a)   The Borrower shall by no later than December 31, 1996,
carry out jointly with the Bank, MbCC, MzCC, SWSC, SNHB,
Swaziland Building Society, Swaziland Electricity Board and
other Borrower agencies responsible for the construction of
community facilities and community representatives, a mid-term
review of the Project. Such review shall, inter alia, focus on:
(i) overall project performance against monitorable performance
indicators; (ii) an assessment of Project sustainability; (iii)
implementation status of the policy, institutional and physical
investment components of the Project; (iv) the effectiveness of
Project implementation arrangements; (v) actual performance
compared to project and institutional targets and action plans;
(vi) funding for and status of implementation of community
facilities; (vii) provision of mortgage and home improvement
loans, for Project beneficiaries; and (viii) appropriateness of
Page  18
Project objectives and components.
    (b)   The Borrower shall three months prior to such review
prepare and furnish to the Bank the reports needed to undertake
this review.
    (c)   Promptly after the completion of the mid-term review
referred to above, the Borrower shall take all necessary
actions to implement the recommendations emanating from such
review, including the preparation of action plans for the
implementation of the remainder of the Project.
7.  The Borrower shall cause MbCC and MzCC to carry out Parts
B.1 and B.2 respectively of the Project and monitor their
performance in accordance with their respective Institutional
Action Plans and performance targets, satisfactory to the Bank,
including, inter alia, the performance targets set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule.
                                   ANNEX
           Performance Targets for MbCC and MzCC, referred to in
                Paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement
                      FY95/96  FY96/97  FY97/98  FY98/99  FY99/00
Rates Collected (%)      70       75       75       75       75
Increase in Rates
Revenues (%)
    Mbabane              35       25       15       15       15
    Manzini              35       25       15       15       10
Equipment Avail-
ability (%)              60       70       75       75       75
Vehicle Avail-
ability (%)              60       70       75       75       75
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Page  19
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
Page  20
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
