Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3807 SW
                          SNHB Project Agreement
                        (Urban Development Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                          NATIONAL HOUSING BOARD
                            Dated July 28, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3807 SW
                          SNHB PROJECT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL
HOUSING BOARD (SNHB).
    WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Kingdom of Swaziland (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-nine million dollars
($29,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but on condition that SNHB agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
    (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SNHB, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to SNHB on
the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
    WHEREAS SNHB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
    Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 2.01. SNHB declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part D of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
housing sector practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for Part D of the Project.
    Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works and goods required for Part D of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
    Section 2.03. SNHB shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the SNHB
Project Agreement and Part D of the Project.
    Section 2.04. SNHB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the SNHB Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, SNHB shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the SNHB Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
    Section 2.05. (a) SNHB shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Borrower and the Bank, with regard to
the progress of Part D of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the SNHB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan.
    (b)   SNHB shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of Part D of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by SNHB of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the SNHB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
    Section 2.06. SNHB shall carry out an Institutional Support
Program (ISP), acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, in
accordance with the agreed schedule contained in said ISP,
making adjustments where necessary, in line with
recommendations of the Project Launch Workshop, the annual
reviews and the mid-term review.
    Section 2.07. SNHB shall participate in the annual reviews
and mid-term review referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6 of
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, and shall promptly
thereafter, take all necessary actions required for the
implementation of the recommendations emanating from such
reviews.
Page  3
    Section 2.08. SNHB shall commence construction on each
upgrading site, under Part D of the Project, only after the
Borrower has furnished to the Bank, resettlement and
compensation plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for each such
upgrading site.
                                ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations of SNHB
    Section 3.01. SNHB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and housing sector practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by adequate levels of
competent staff.
    Section 3.02. SNHB shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and housing sector practices.
    Section 3.03. SNHB shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) SNHB shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition and the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part D of
the Project.
    (b)   SNHB shall:
          (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                and expenses and related statements) for each
                fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                appropriate auditing principles consistently
                applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                financial statements for such year as so audited,
                and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and financial
                statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
    Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
    Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of SNHB hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
Page  4
and the Bank shall promptly notify SNHB thereof.
    Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable or telex to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given
or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    For SNHB:
          National Housing Board
          P.O. Box 798
          Mbabane
          Swaziland
    Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SNHB, may be taken or executed by
the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the
Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director
shall designate in writing, and SNHB shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
    Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
Page  5
                                                                   Africa
                       NATIONAL HOUSING BOARD
                       By /s/ Mary Kanya
                                                Authorized Representative
