Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3807 SW
                          SWSC Project Agreement
                        (Urban Development Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                   SWAZILAND WATER SERVICES CORPORATION
                            Dated July 28, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3807 SW
                          SWSC PROJECT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SWAZILAND
WATER SERVICES CORPORATION (SWSC).
    WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Kingdom of Swaziland (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-nine million dollars
($29,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but on condition that SWSC agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
    (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SWSC, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to SWSC on
the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
    WHEREAS SWSC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
    Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 2.01. SWSC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out Part C of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
water sector practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for Part C of the Project.
    Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of works and goods required for Part C of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
    Section 2.03. SWSC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the SWSC
Project Agreement and Part C of the Project.
    Section 2.04. SWSC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the SWSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, SWSC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the SWSC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
    Section 2.05. (a) SWSC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Borrower and the Bank with regard to
the progress of Part C of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the SWSC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan.
    (b)   SWSC shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by SWSC of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the SWSC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
    Section 2.06. SWSC shall carry out and monitor the
implementation of Part C of the Project, in accordance with an
institutional action plan and performance targets, satisfactory
to the Bank, including, inter alia, the performance targets set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
    Section 2.07. SWSC shall participate in the annual reviews
and mid-term review referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6 of
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, and shall promptly
thereafter, take all necessary actions required for the
implementation of the recommendations emanating from such
reviews.
                                ARTICLE III
Page  3
                     Management and Operations of SWSC
    Section 3.01. SWSC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and water sector practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by adequate levels of
competent staff.
    Section 3.02. SWSC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and water sector practices.
    Section 3.03. SWSC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) SWSC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition and the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of
the Project.
    (b)   SWSC shall:
          (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                and expenses and related statements) for each
                fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                appropriate auditing principles consistently
                applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                financial statements for such year as so audited,
                and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and financial
                statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
    Section 4.02. SWSC shall, commencing FY 1995/1996, furnish
to the Bank by December 15 of the preceding fiscal year, its
updated five-year financial forecasts, its draft budget
estimate and tariff and subvention proposal for the following
fiscal year.
    Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, SWSC shall: (i) for FY 1995/1996 and FY
1996/1997 take all necessary actions, including revenue
enhancement and internal cost control, to ensure that its
operating revenues cover its total operating costs and interest
expense, with declining subventions from the Borrower; and (ii)
maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year
ending on March 31, 1997, revenues from internal sources
sufficient to cover its total operating costs and interest
expenses, with the exception of subventions for direct
recurrent expenses of water supply schemes in Siteki and
Nhlangano.
Page  4
    (b)   Before July 31 in each of its fiscal years, SWSC shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by SWSC and satisfactory to
the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.
    (c)   If any such review shows that SWSC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for SWSC's fiscal years
covered by such review, SWSC shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates in accordance with the
Borrower's Public Enterprises Control and Monitoring Act of
1989) in order to meet such requirements.
    (d)   For the purposes of this Section the term "total
operating costs" means all costs related to operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a
current cost accounting basis, in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, but excluding interest and
other charges on debt.
    Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
(i) SWSC shall until March 31, 1998, consult with the Borrower
and the Bank, prior to incurring any new long-term debt
obligations; and (ii) commencing its Fiscal Year beginning
April 1, 1998, SWSC shall not incur any debt unless a
reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of SWSC,
shows that the estimated net revenues of SWSC for each fiscal
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of SWSC
in such year on all debt of SWSC including the debt to be
incurred.
    (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   the term "debt" means any indebtedness of SWSC
                maturing by its terms more than one year after
                the date on which it is originally incurred;
         (ii)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                providing for such debt or for the modification
                of its terms of payment on the date of such
                contract, agreement or instrument, and (B) under
                a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                providing for such guarantee has been entered
                into;
        (iii)   the term "net revenues" means the difference
                between:
                (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources
                       related to operations and net non-operating
                       income, and
                (B)    the sum of all expenses related to
                       operations including administration,
                       adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
                       lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
                       depreciation, other non-cash operating
                       charges and interest and other charges on
                       debt;
         (iv)   the term "net non-operating income" means the
                difference between:
                (A)    revenues from all sources other than those
                       related to operations, and
                (B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in
Page  5
                       lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                       of revenues in (A) above;
          (v)   the term "debt service requirements" means the
                aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                charges on, debt; and
         (vi)   the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                prepared by SWSC not earlier than twelve months
                prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
                which both the Bank and SWSC accept as reason-
                able and as to which the Bank has notified SWSC
                of its acceptability, provided that no event has
                occurred since such modification which has, or
                may reasonably be expected in the future to have,
                a material adverse effect on the financial
                condition or future operating results of SWSC.
    (c)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
    Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
    Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of SWSC hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify SWSC thereof.
    Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable and telex to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice
or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
Page  6
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    For SWSC:
          Swaziland Water Services Corporation
          P.O. Box 20
          Mbabane
          Swaziland
    Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SWSC, or by SWSC on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the
Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director
shall designate in writing, and SWSC shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
    Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                       SWAZILAND WATER SERVICES CORPORATION
                       By /s/ Mary Kanya
                                                Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE
                    Performance Targets referred to in
                      Section 2.07 of this Agreement
                FY95/96     FY96/97     FY97/98     FY98/99     FY99/00
Employees/         36          31          23          20          17
1000 connec-
tions(no)
Unaccounted-for
Water (%)          43          38          35          30          28
Bad Debt/Sales     21          23          20          20          19
(%)
Average Collec-   150         150         150         150         150
tion Period
Page  7
