Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9325
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
(LOAN 2218-PAK)
FEBRUARY 5, 1991
Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1                     Rs 21.50
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Pakistan and PERAC Group
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ECC         Energy Conservation Cell
ECS         Energy Conservation Survey
EDS         Engineering Design Specification
ENAR        ENAR Petrotech Services Ltd.
EPC         Engineering, Procurement and Construction
GOP         Government of Pakistan
HSD         High Speed Diesel
LPG         Liquified Petroleum Gas
MOP         Ministry of Production
MS/HOBC     Motor Spirits/High Octane Blending Component
NPL         National Petroleum Limited
NRL         National Refinery Limited
PERAC       Petroleum Refining & Petrochemical Corporation Ltd.



FORI OFFIC;AL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. DC 20433
USA
Office of DifetwG-Ceral
Opeatws io [Valuatim
February 5, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project
(Loan 2218-PAR)
Attached for information is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Pakistan Refinery Engineering and Energy
Efficiency Project (Loan 2218-PAR) prepared by the Energy Operations
Department of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
(LOAN 2218-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nos.
PREFACE ...........................................................                 i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................                 ii
Part I
1.    Project Identity. 
2. Background.                                                                      1
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                             2
4.  Project Organization and Implementation.                                        4
5. Project Results.                                                                 5
6.  Performance of the Bank and the Borrower.                                       6
7. Consulting Services.                                                             7
PART II
Project Review from Borrower's Perspective                    .       .             9
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans .37
2. Project Timetable .38
3.  Loan Disbursement...,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,38
4.  Project Implementation .39
5.  Project Costs and Financing .40
6.    Project Results .................................,. .....    41
7. Status of Covenants .42
8. Use of Bank Resources .43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatio,i.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
('OAN 2218-PAK)
PREFACE
This is the Project rqmpletion Report (PCR) for the Refinery
Engineering and Energy Efficiency roject in Pakistan, for which Loan 2218-PAK
in the amount of US$12.0 million was approved on December 14, 1982. The loan
was closed on June 30, 1986, one year behind the original schedule. The loan
was not fully disbursed and the undisbursed amount of $7.5 million was cancelled
as savings on February 26, 1987.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Energy Operations Division of
the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the President's
Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision reports; project progress
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.



ii
PROJECT COWPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
(LOAN 2218-PAK)
EVALUATIO9 SU    Y
Introduction
1.          Although the Bank had been involved in five petroleum subsector
projects, all supporting oil and gas development activities, this was the first
project in the "downstream" or refining segment of the petroleum subsector. The
Bank loan of US$12.0 was given to the State Petroleum Refining & Petrochemical
Corporation Ltd. (PERAC), with the guarantee of the Government of Pakistan (GOP).
PERAC was to relend US$1.8 million to subsidiary organizations to carry out
various project components.
Objectives
2.          The  principal  objective was  to  obtain  the  necessary  process
technology for the design and eventual construction of a hydrocrecker complex.
Secondary objectives were to increase private participation in the refining
industry and to support GOP efforts to introduce energy conservation measures
within the major industries (PCR, Part I, para. 3.01).
Tmplementation Experience
3.          The loan closing was extended by one year to complete procurement
activities and to provide for additional engineering services. However, physical
completion of several energy conservation components did not occur until December
1989 (PCR, Part I, para. 4.04).   Disbursement of the loan was slower than
forecast due to an overly optimistic schedule, delays in procurement and
engineering, and the major reduction in scope occasioned by the GOP's decision
to postpone implementation of the follow-on Hydrocracker Project (PCR, Part I,
paras. 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 4.04, and Part III, Section 3). The unucilized portion
of the loan (US$7.5 million) was cancelled on February 26, 1987 (PCR, Part III,
Section 5B). The performance of the consultants for both refinery engineering
and energy conservation was good (PCR, Part 1, para. 7.1).  In general, the
technical performance cf PERAC was satisfactoxy; however, administrative and
procurement delays resulted in schedule slippage (PCR, Part I, paras. 6.04,
6.05). The Bank's performance was t. .erally satisfactory, although during the
first two years of the project, supervision missions did not always include a
technical specialis- (PCR, Part I, paras. 6.01, 6.02, 6.03).



iii
Results
4.          Although the project scope was drastically reduced, PERAC did obtain
the necessary process technology, engineering design specifications, and a
capital cost estimate on which to base any future decision on construction of
a hydrocracker complex (PCR, Part I, para. 5.01).   In the area of energy
conservation, a good foundation was established for PERAC and its affiliated
organizations to implement more comprehensive energy conservation initiatives
and programs in the future (PCR, Part I, paras. 5.03, 5.04, 5.05).
Sustainability
5.          PERAC is the dominant institution in the petroleum subsector.  By
working with consultants on thi. project, the staff of PMRAC and its affiliated
organizations have acquired sound technical background, especially in the area
of energy conservation.   The benefits derived from the energy conservation
component of the project are likely to be not only sustained but enhanced as
additional energy conservation progtrms are 'mplemented.
Findings and Lessons
6.          The project experience highlights the potential risk of undertaking
projects for the secondary upgrading of refined pro-Lucts in developing countries
which lack a rational ex-refinery pricing policy. The absence of such a policy
makes it difficult to determine the ecoriomic viability of secondary upgrading
projects.
7.          The slippage in disbursing only 37.5% of the original loan amount
emphasizes the need to establish a more realistic project schedule and to be more
cognizant of potential technical problems and schedule delays d. ring the early
stages of a project. If technical specialists are not available, the resources
of the resident mission could be used to augment HQ supervision missions (PCR,
Part 1, para. 6.03).



PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name  :   Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project
Loan No.       :    2218-PAK
RVP Unit            Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Country             Pakistan
Sector              Energy
Subsector           Petroleum
2. Background
2.01     The July 1980 Board Report,  "Petroleum Refining in the Developing
Countries", identified a structural problem found in many deveioping countries,
namely, a serious imbalance between demand and domestic supp'.y of individual
refined products bezause of the normally simple refinery configurations and the
absence of secondary conversion facilities. These factors result in a lack of
flexibility in changing the product mix of the refineries. The economic impact
is the necessity to import high value products, offset only partly by the export
of low value products.
2.02     Pakistan was  facing this situation in 1980.   The  three domestic
refineries had a nameplate crude oil processing capacity of 6.1 million tpy.
However, because of lack of local crude oil supplies, product mix constraints,
and restricted availability of imported crude, crude processed in 1980 was 4.44
million tons, well below the rated capacity of 6.1 million tons. In addition,
low value fuel oil production exceeded demand by 850 thousand tons, whereas there
was a production shortfall of 1.3 million tons in high value middle distillate
products. This product imbalance was expected to become even more acute by 1985.
2.03     The State Petroleum Refining & Petrochemical Corporation Ltd. (PERAC)
had carried out a number of studies, both in-house and utilizing qualified
international consultants, to identify and evaluate the most appropriate
processing scheme, under Pakistani conditions, for upgrading fuel oil to higher
value products to correct, at least in part, the projected imbalance between
domestic demand and the refinery production profile.   It was determined that
a hydrocracker configuration was the most economically attractive processing
scheme for the refining sector in Pakistan.   This was the setting when the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) asked the Bank to participate in a proposed
Hydrocracker Project.
2.04     The Hydrocracker Project was envisioned as a two phase undertaking,
beginning in 1982, with construction scheduled for completion in 1986.   The
initial phase would include: first stage design and basic engineering work
necessary to fully define the Hydrocracker Project and to develop reasonable
cost estimates and implementation plans; a review of ownership, pricing policy,
and financing arrangements, in order to ensure that all preparatory work was
completed before a decision was made to proceed with the second phase, project
implementation. A Refinery Engineering loan to finance the first phase activity
was negotiated between PERAC and the Bank.



.05     Rising energy imports were also having F- adverse effect on Pakistan's
balance of payments. This is turn gave rise to an awareness of the need for GOP
policies to improve control of energy demand through measures including pricing,
and the promotion and implementation of energy conservation practices.
2.06     Although there was, and continues to be, considerable potential for
energy conservation in Pakistan's industrial sector, the necessary institutional
framework and policies were in the early development stages.   The Refinery
Engineering project presented an opportunity to undertake modest energy
conservation initiatives, with a more comprehensive energy conservation program
to be developed subsequently. Thus, energy conservation components were added
to the project.
3. Project Obiectives and Description
3.01     The project  had  two objectives:  refinery  engineering  and energy
conservation.
(a)  Refinery Engineering:   The principal objective was  to obtain the
necessary process know-how for the design of, and to prepare Engineering
Design Specification (EDS) documents for, a Hydrocracker Complex. A
secondary objective was to provide a framework for a dialogue with GOP
on the rationalization of ex-refinery pricing policies, inter alia to
improve the prospects for private participation in the future
Hydrocracker Project and to initiate discussions on suitable ownership
arrangements for the Hydrocracker Project.
(b)  Energy Conservation:  The overall objective of the energy -onservation
component was to support GOP objectives for introducing energy
conservation measures in industry. The specific objectives were to:
(i)  strengthen the capability of ENAR Petrotech Services Limited (ENAR)
to carry out energy audits and conservation studies so that ENAR
could perform the functions of an industrial energy conservation
center; and
(ii) execute an energy audit and energy conservation measures at the
National Refinery Limited (NRL) refinery.
3.02     The project, as originally envisaged, was to comprise the following
components:
(a) Refinery Engineering
(i)  PERAC would obtain the necessary process know-how for the design
of a hydrocracker complex;
(ii)  An engineering consultant, with PERAC assistance, would prepare
engineering design specifications of all process units and off-
sites, a cost estimate, and a project financing plan;



(iii)  PERAC, with the assistance of an engineering consultant, would
perform derailed engineering of the critical process units and
prepare bidding documents of the second stage engineering package
(comprising detailed engineering, procurement, and construction
supervision) for implementation of the Hydrocrac: r Project; and
(iv) PERAC would prepare site topographic and soil surveys.
(b) Energy Conservation
(i)  An energy conservation unit would be established within ENAR to
conduct energy audits and conservation studies. Training in energy
audit techniques and methodologies would be conducted. Equipment,
instrumentation, and materials for energy auditing would be
purchased for the energy conservation unit.
(ii) An energy audit of the facilities of NRL would be conducted through
ENAR. This audit would include studies to identify improvements
in operating practice- and investments to decrease energy
consumption. Instrumentation for control of energy use and for
the audit would be provided.
(iii) Various energy conservation measures would be implemented at the
NRL refinery, inter alia to improve fired heater efficiencies and
to decrease evaporation losses from crude oil storage tanks.
3.03     Estimated cost of the project was $16 million, of which $12 million was
in foreign exchange.  The Bank loan of $12 million was to finance the entire
foreign exchange component.
Change in Project ScoRe
3.04     Because of the changing economics of international refining,  i.e.,
decreasing refinery operating margins, GOP decided In November 1984 to postpone
implementation of the Hydrocracker Project. The Bank and PERAC discussed this
issue in subsequent supervision missions in February and August 1985. It was
agreed that any further progress on the Hydrocracker Project was dependent on
the results of the Petroleum Products Infrastructure Study, to be completed in
1986 under Loan 2552-PAK, Energy Sector Loan I.
3.0S     Therefore, although the preparation of the EDS was continued until
completion, the detailed engineering for the hydrocracker complex and selection
of an EPC contractor were suspended, pending review of investment priorities and
petroleum supply options, the availability of funds, international market
indications, and the ex-refinery pricing policy. The reduction in engineering
scope w&s estimated to have a potential cost savings exceeding $5.0 million.
3.06     As a result of the energy audit at the NRL refinery, two major energy
conservation projects, revamp of lube unit and platformer unit, were identified.
The engineering study work for these two revamp projects, at a cost of $387,000,
was added to the project scope in March 1986. The implementation of these two



4 -
projects was in'2luded in the Refinery Energy C.nservation and Modernization
Project, Loan 2842-PAK.
4.  Project Organization a_mlenation
4.01     PERAC is wholly owned by the GOP afnd acts partly as a holding company
for various government interests ir refining, chemicals, and oil shipping, but
also as a planning and development unit for new projects in the refinery and
petrochemical sectors, which, when ready for implementation, can be spun off to
new or existing subsidiaries for execution
4.02     PEIRAC created a new organization, National Petroleum Limited (NPL),
for the execution of the Hydrocracker Project. This provided a control center
for the Refinery Engineering component of the loan, namely, the transfer of
process technology and the preparation of the EDS. NPL was also responsible for
site  surveys and land acquisition.   This organizational  concept vas very
satisfactory for this project.
4.03     The energy conservation components of the project were undertaken by
already existing organizations, ENAR and NRL.  This had the effect of deveioping
and strengthening organizational capabilities that would be available for
undertaking energy conservation initiatives after the project was completed.
4.04     The schedule presented in the appraisal report was very optimistic.
In November 1984, GOP requested that the loan closing be extended by two years
to June 30, 1987. During the February 1985 Supervision Mission, PERAC confirmed
that the loan would not be fully utilized and that an estimated $6.5 million
would remain undisbursed at loan closing. The exect amount of the cancellation
was to be dete, Ained by June 30, 1985, the original loan closing date. Although
no mention was made during the mission of a possible loan extension, in May 1985,
PERAC requested a six month extension for the purpose of completing
disbursements. In June 1985, the Bank formally extended the loan closing until
June 30, 1986. In July 1986, PERAC requested an extension until June 1987, for
the purpose of obtaining additional consulting services for the energy
conservation component. Inasmuch as the February 1986 Supervision Mission had
determined that the project was essentially complete, the PERAC request was
denied. Disbursements were continued until December 31, 1096 for all commitments
made prior to the loan closing date. Procurement for the energy conservation
projects at the NRL refinery was completed in June 1986; however, final
completion of the work did not occur until December 1989, primarily because
installation had to be scheduled during planned refinery shutdowns.
4.05     Consultants played a major role in project implementation, providing
process technology and engineering support for the Refinery Engineering
component, and technical assistance and training for the Energy Conservation
components.



-5-
i        ~5. Pt7,1egt Results
A.  Refinery Engineering
5.01     PERAC has  obtained  the necessary process  technology  license  and
information for execution of the Hydrocracker Project.   Engineering design
specifications and a capital cost estimate have been prepared.  Although the
project has not been executed, the information developed under this loan will
form the basis for future decisions regarding the hydrocracker complex.
5.02     PERAC management acknowledges that a GOP pricing policy for petroleum
products is required for future implementation of the hydrocracker peoject.  In
fact, it is well understood that an effective and rea'istic pricing policy is
essential for all investments in the refinery sector.  The Bank and GOP are
engaged in an ongoing dialogue, and this issue is addressed in the current
Refinery Energy Conservation and Modernization Project, Loan 2842-PAK.
B. Energy Conservation
5.03     ENAR,  An Energy Conservation Cell (ECC) was established at ENAR
Petrotech Services.  The consultant conducted training for 25 energy engineers
and assisted in preparing energy audit manuals for five industrial sectors:
cement, petroleum refining, fertilizers and chemicals, power generation, and
iron and steel.  As a result of the technical assistance, ENAR acquired the
capability to provide energy conservation consulting services to the industrial
sector.  The following energy conservation initiatives were undertaken:
a)   An Executive Management Seminar on energy conservation was presented
to about 300 technical and management staff from public and private
industrial organizations.
b)   Energy surveys of 17 industrial units operating under the Ministry of
Production (MOP) were completed. These units represent about 80 percent
of the total energy consumption of public sector industries operating
under MOP.
c)   A monthly Energy Consumption Monitoring Report for 30 public sector
industries was  nstituted.
d)   Four energy audits were conducted in the steel and cement industries.
5.04     EEL,  An energy conservation study of the NRL refinery was conducted
through ENAR and the consultant. As a result of this study, a number of energy
conservation projects were defined and scheduled for implementation. In e.ddition
to the energy conservation measures implemented under the loan, two major revamp
projects were idenr'fied. The engineering studies for this revamp work Lo the
lube unit and the platformer unit were added to the project scope.   The
implementation work was included in a follow-on loan, 2842-PAK.
w



- 6 -
5.05     In the area of technical assistance,  the staff of PERAC and its
affiliated organizationb acquired the necessary technical 3xpertise by working
with expatriate experts in speciali'ed areas.
6.  Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
6.01     The performance of the Bank from project identification to completion
is considered generally satisfactory. The relevaiut issues were identified at
appraisal, and the project was conceived as part of an overall energy sector
strategy.  The appropriate covenants were included in the loan and guarantee
agreements, and the Bank monitored both the physical execution and fulfillment
of covenants, of which Covenant 2.03 of the Guarantee Agreement with the GOP
requiring an ex-refinery pricing policy had not been fulfilled at loan closing.
6.02     Several areas for future improvement by the Bank include a more prompt
response to Borrower requests for review of licensing and engineering agreements
in the early months of a project and the development of a more realistic project
schedule. The schedule for the NRL energy conservation component proved to be
overly optimistic, and the loan closing was subsequently extended by one year.
Final completion of the three energy conservation projects included in this loan
is estimated in December 1989.
6.03     During the two year period from August 1983 until July 1985, the Bank
scheduled only two supervision missions by a single financial analyst for a total
of five days.   Because the largest loan component was for engineering by an
international consultant and design reviews were held in the consultant's
offices, such level of supervision should have been sufficient during the early
stages of the project.   Both supervision missions concluded that the loan
disbursements were on schedule for completion by the original loan closing date
of Juna 30, 1985.   In retrospezt,  in view of the subsequent loan closing
extension and because technical problems and schedule slippage had been
identified by the extensive supervision mission in August 1983, it would have
been prudent to utilize the technical capabilities of the Bank's Resident Missioa
to more frequently monitor project implementation and schedule changes.
6.04     In general,  the technical performance of PERAC was satisfactory.
Technical questions were addressed in an appropriate manner and relevant
information supplied to the Bank as necessary. Inasmuch as this was the first
loan in the refinery sector, administrative difficulties in the early phase of
project implementation were to bti expected. Once the reporting mechanism was
established, progress reports were submitted on a timely basis.
6.05     The original project schedule proved to be overly optimistic. The first
loan closing extension request cited the need to complete disbursements for the
Refinery Engineering component.   In fact,  procurement  for the NRL Energy
Conservation component was also behind schedule. Although all foreign exchange
procurement was completed prior to the revised loan closing date of June 30,
1986, actual projec;t completion was not achieved until December 1989, primarily
because of the need to schedule installation during planned refinery shutdowns.



-7-
6.06     On the loan administration side, service payments were regularly late
and necessitated follow-up by the Bank. The covenant requiring an ex-refinery
pricing policy had still not been fulfilled at loan closing. However, it should
be mentioned that the Bank and GOP had begun a dialogue on the pricing policy
issue during the project's duration.
7. Consulting Services
7.01     PERAC obtained the services of five engineering firms, well known in
the petroleum industry, to assist with project implementation. The technical
performance of these consultants was good. There was some slippage in meeting
the original scheduled due dates for engineering packages due to unusually
lengthy contract negotiations and review by the Bank, PERAC, and the consultants.
This slippage did not affect the quality of the work, nor did it impact on the
project results. Overall performance of the consultants was very satisfactory.



- 9 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIEWI FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



-11 -
Dr. M . H. Chaudhry
PERAC          & Petrochemical lorporaUon (Pv) Limited.            Cfn
Ref.s P.13.4                                 September 18, 1989
Mr. Rashid Aziz
Projects Economist
The World Bank
36-St 1. F-6/3
P.O. Box 1025
Isl_mebad
SUB:    REFINERY ENGINEERING b ENERGY EFFPCIVNCY
PROJECT (Ln 2218 - PAK) - PROJECT COMPLETIUN
REPORT (PCR)
Deer Sir,
Please refer to your letter dated September 07, 1989 on the as3ove
subject.
We have reviewed Part I & Part II of PCR prepared by the Bank and
find it in order. We have no comment on the some. As fnr an Part 11
is concerned, we are not familiar with the new Bank Guidelints for
preparation of PCR's (as we do not have a copy of the some) and we
have no objection to the Bank's usnig the Project Completion Report
earlier prepared by PERAC as Part it or oihe f1aini rv-port..
Yours faithfully,
-t(4
DR. M.H1. CHAUDHRY
-HAM/as
4th flow, 5aulm Chembe.,. UAtt"e  Rood PO Son No 913 KOISC
/ *PCon, f   15071 (S 0bWs1 SIOt5 Tt0,s: 2454 PSSAOC PK CobW eF AC



- 13 -
State petroleum Refining &              *
PE        Petrochemical Corporation (Pvt.) Ltd.
le    ~P.13.4
Mr. Luis de Azcarate                     Feb             89
Chief, Resident Mission
The World Bank
P.O.Box 1025
Islamabad.
Dear Sir,
REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
PROJECT (LOAN 2218 PAX)-Pr%OJECT COMPLETION
REPORT
Please refer to the Bank's letter dated November 2, 1988
enclosing Aid-memoire. We are pleased to enclose here-
with a copy of Project Comoletion Report (PCR) for the
above subject loan prepared by us as per the guidelines
provided by the Bank.
Yours faithfully,
for STATE PETRCLEUM REFINING & PETRO-
CEIMICAL CORPORATION (PVT) LIMITED
A. WAHHAB
Director
Projects & Technical
Encl: a.a.
MAM:lcf
4th Floor. Karim Chambers. Mrowethor Road. P.O. Box No. 8913 Karachi  TELEX 24546 PERAC PK
Phones: 515071 (5 Lines)  Cable. PERAC



- M4 -
IBRD LOAN 2218 PAK
"Refinery Engineerlng and Enerov Eff':.emcv Prolect
PROJECT COMPLETICN REPORT
I. I N T R o D u C T I o N
An agreement was sLgned between the State Petroleum RefLtilng
& Petrochemical Corporation (Pvt) Ltd. (The Borrower) and
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (The
Bank) on January 17, 1983 under which the Bank extended a
loan of US S 12.0 million to the Borrower to assist the Borro-
wer in the financing of the cost of tVe project described
below:-
Part A: Refinery Engineering
Preparation by the Borrower of the construction of a Hydro-
cracker Complex, which will be a grass-roots refining com-
plex having various process units including a hydrocracker
unit together with associated units and off-site and uti-
lity facilities for reduced crude upgrading in the Karachi
area including: (i) obtaining necessary proces know-how for
the design (ii) engineering design specification of all pro-
cess units and off-sites and preparation of cost estimates
and financing requirements; (iii) detailed engineering of
ciritical units; (iv) consultancy services during engineer-
ing and preparation of bidding documents; and (v) carrying
out site topographic and soil surveys.
Part B: Energy Conservation
1. ENAR
Establishing an energy conservation unit within ENAR
to conduct energy audits and conservation studies,
training inter alia in energy audit techniques and
methodologies, and providing such unit with adequate
equipment, instrumentation and materials,
.2/-



- 15 -
2. N R L
a) CarryLng out an ener9y audit of the facilLtes of NRL
through ENAR including studies to identify improvements
in operating practices and to identify investments to
decrease energy consumption, providing instrumentation
for such audit and for the control of energy use.
b) Carrying out vkrious other conservation measures
interalia to improve fired heater efficiencies and
to decrease evaporation losses from crude oil storage
tanks.
As per condition of the loan agreement, the Borrower had relent
the proceedsof the loanamounting to US S 10.197 million for
Part-A of the Project to National Petroleum Limited, US $ 0.402
million to ENAR Petrotech Services Limited for part B.1 and
US S 1.401 million to National Refinery Limited for part B.2 of
the Project under subsidiary loan agreements entered into bet-
ween the Borrower and these subsidiary companies.
The loan agreement became effective from April 19, 1983. The
disbursement of the loan.has since been closed from June 1988.
Project completion report (PCR) are generally required to be
completed ar.submitted to the Bank within six months of the
completion of the loan/credit disbursements. This PCR is being
submitted to meet this conditions of che loan agreement. Because
of the nature of the Project, it was not possible to follow
strictly the format of the .PCR laid dcwn by the Bank but necessary
information/data has been included.
....2/-



- 16 -
The procurement aspect of machinery and equipment for above
mentioned energy conservation project i.e. Floating decks,
crude tanks mixers, auto-tank gauging has been completed since
June 1986. Since the installation of these equipment is to be
carried out in an operating refinery, their progress is linked
to the availability of the refinery equipment during scheduled
shut-downs etc. and hence are still in progress. As per current
status these erection/installations jobs are scheduled for
completion tn December 1989.
Since the project is physically still not completed, its PCR
as per the Bank's guidelines is not possible at this stage.
it can be prepared and submitted to the Bank in due course.
The status of the project is, however, given in Appendix-C.



- 17 -
2.  PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
The PCR of each of the Project components is given herein
belows-
PART-A: REFINERY ENGINEERING
Loan Amount             : US $ 10.197 million
Disbursed               : US S 3.246
Surreandered (June 196b) : "    6" .951
Project ComletLon Report as per the Bank format is placed
as Appendix-A.
PART-3 ENERGY CONSERVATION
8.1.  ENAR
(Establishing an energy conservation unit within ENAR)
Loan amount       : US $ 0.402 million
Disbursed         : US S 187197
Surrendered       : US $ 214803
The Project completion Report as per the Bank guidelines is
placed as Appendix-S.
8.2   N_R L
a) Carry out Energy Audit Study.
b) Carry out various other conservation measures.
o Auto Tank Gauging
o Floating Decks for crude oil tanks.
O Crude Tank Mixers.
O Process Design Studies for energy conservation
modifications at Platformer/Hydrobon process
Units, Lube Refinery I process mudifications
etc.
Loan Amount       : US S 1.401 million
Disbursed         : US " 1.087   "             A
Surrendered       :  US " 0.314   "
...4/-



t;|;l JlXlst*;                    -  ~~~~~~~~~18  -
A?P;' IX -A
Operational Mvanual Statement
-  he WVorld Bank =
I'RMqJrLCQN1.LQ l %,S_(Ll'0RT_LA.e      L  I),OTA SIIjFT
COUINRY NUNtli.lR AND) NANWI'r r, OJl CK   (LOC1 OAN/CRIDir                .
LOAN NO. 2218-PAK, PART A : REFINERY, ENGINEERING
K LY PRtJILCT DATA*
1agpCIAtIon                      Cuircn I %w%w:
1uia I'r;'ji.I   (u<ISlblil   .e. of Hydrocracker
LI(iQJWtun .   11114 t*)        Pro3ect
L%h,iICccuj .\nount tUSS ritlihun)21 
h)1IghUI%%A                                                                                          3.2 46
('jnecilcJ     JUNE  19S8 8
OUltililt"lditil to~                                                                                    ?
NIt,: l h) sial tLontrutiasctunri                                                                    Je11CS
l luortiurn Ctinwt:ite3  b Ahu¶ c WICtooc                                                                 ---0
li upli uv.i ut T,imc UndJrfun oat QJciteilt (I.)                   .
iXolsIIw'u  Rjtile f Return t..)                                                                        -    ,
rinan,i,i Pet(irijnnce                                               -                                -
;i.St1Iulttilal Pu.ufn.n.                                                          -                            I
OTIIERt PI:OJECT DATA
Oririlial                                              ActiWt .ir
hollc                                 Piwn                     Revisions                 -+.St. Aclual
I-t Mnention tit Ijil,s ut I n,ctjtle               -                                                       /
ioXcinnicnt's A1111h,4ittin                         __t /
Ncgutiations                                    ll/ O   1982              ^r-                        1101./1982
Ihgdarr°iot% 1a21t1                                                         - 1  r I3-                     /71 `'83
!.biji/CirditAgiremnwrt Duic                   nlA2 tt1a3                     /                               1.S283
* ir Ite'ne<s  tec                              0       8                  *     ^1^1 -               04 /9         18 3
Cling Witao 11985                                                            -i^  I ^_______6
lluftcttwit                                    STATE  PETROLEUM  REFINING  & PETROCHEMICAL CORP.LT=(PE?
lICculisng 'elwcv                                                NATIONAr  n   RO2ELIM  LIMITED   (NPLL.
,.:.It ,.,,lit.lJ,ti,,                                                     JULY  TO JUNE
I -ti.|.   n  N l^, .6111d':
La.jg,CgtJ.uii t;                                                         -                 /~'
Lif iniCicautit atlUcirl l}z/_                                                                              _
I iUtIIW,JII Apoivl Date
*  Frone *nd  phfase  of  Hydrocracker  ProTect
The implementation  of  the  Project  beyond  preparation  of  basic  enqgneering desiqn
(EDS) packages was suspended by the Governaent in November 1984. As such the Loan
'ii~~I~.at~Wt'i~t r' W.'.t'  ''4akC) upr II d ItIl.  Aqreementoscope  of work  could  not be  completed, and
* C ' Uq  apt potion  of  the  loan was surrendered.
,                         'I h,'iiilW I'dm 1    : '. , ,- tt,.1Ij 4  1 I4 1c  i,1IIrwjtg'se,- I   u(J . 0nt1tCs suhpvt. j tIg d ritn. ,f Ieste. fla , or  114tli11.II IJ .  .4'



-. 19-
Otperationial Manual SLatei-j,ilrL
. _Tlhe World Bk----- -. 
MIISSIUN UATA
Si ni          tN411iI1,         No. uf          No. of                              o0 .,, 4.
I,Y,              ,j           W ¢,,,      so        ,,         st|%:^¢¢kC' Ntjmc.Ll "
identiIic.iul /u
PrcparntIun
I ce'aplals tl                                                                                                 _ / 
AppressaL-
Total
Suipgivsion I
svpctfsstslo li
etc. 
C omplehZol, 
Total                                                           
COUNTRY EXCIIANGC RAI LS
NCame of Cutrccy  (A Vbr14604io1)                                   PAKISTAN  RUPEE               (Z       RA.)
Year:
Appraisai Yetr Avetcge                                                             .zchsnge Kate: US5  - _11. 76  i 1982
lrtcrveninfi^nt N'mlAvetaiCC                                                                       U.S51 *_1A21983-e
Conplction Year Avesgce                                                                           USSi* 16. 57(1986)
'Number of $Sday weeks siown in the miSion report plus travcl nie.
lNumbef of wceks tintes number of pocons.



20 -
INTRODUCTION
6.   The Hydrocracker Project falls in the energy sector.  t
entails tho Ln3&allAt1on of a 1.35 million tons per ;_ar
capacity grass-roots oil refining complex at Karachi for
the upgrading of atmospheric reduced crude, snd other
feedstocks available from the existing Karachi refineries,
to finished products including LPG, MS/HOBC, Kerosene/JP-l,
HSD, Fuel Oil and Sulphur. The complex comprises of
vacuum distillation, hydrocracking, hydrogen generation,
naphtha hydrotreating/catalytic reforming, visbreakinq,
light ends recovery, amine treating and sulphur recovery
process units and associated utilities and offsites. The
products from the Hydrocracker are deficit in the country
and by the construction of this Project, the import bill
of the country would be reduced by about 5 70-80 million/year.
The Loan agreement for Loan No. 2218 PAX was signid
between World Bank and State Petroleum Refining and Petro-
chemical Corporation Ltd. (PERAC) on January 17,1983.
Total amount of the loan was US$ 12 million equivalent,
out of which about S 10.197 million was for Part A and
the balance for Part S. Part A was called as Refinery
Engineecing and it consisted of payments for licence
fees and consultant and technical services for the proposed
Hydrocracker Complex.
The Part A scope of work included : (i) Obtaining
necessary process know-how for the design (ii) engineering
design specifications (EDS) for all the process units and
offsites  (iii) detailed engineering of critical units
(iv) consultancy services during engineering and
preparation of bidding documents and (v) carrying out
site topographic and soil surveys.
National Petroleum Limited (NPL) was formed in May 1983,
under PERAC to implement and to subsequenzly manage the
Project. A subsidiary loan agreement was also signed between
PMtAC & NPL, whereby all liabilities and benefits of
Loan 2218 PAX (Part A) were transferred from PERAC to NPL.
Licensing and engineering agreements were signed in
JUne 1983 and contract for the preparation of basic
engineetinq design (ZDS) package was signed in December 1983.
However, in November 1984, it was decided by the
Government that the EoS work whLch was then underway should
be completed and further work on the project should be
suspendea.
Accordingly, no further work has been done on the Project
after completion of EDS in July 1985.
A plot measuring 250 acres has been allotted to NPL in the
Korangi industrial area and adjacent to Pakistan Refinery Lim:ted.
2/



- 21 -
7.   SourceS of information on which the PCR is based
(L)    World Bank-Perac Agreement for
Loan 22le PAr.
(ii)   Project proqress reports.
It.     PROJECT IDENT!FICATIONsPREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
S.   information not available with the Borrower
9.   Oricin :
a. Pakistan is deficit in distillate fuels and the
furnace oil being produced at Karachi refineries.
which can be profitably upgraded into distillate
fuels through facilities like Hydrocracker, is
presently being burnt as fuel.
b.  PERAC initiated the study for optimum utilisation
of each barrel of crude being processed at Karachi
refineries. The study was vetted by an international
consultant and it was concluded that Hydrocracking
was the optimum scheme for upgrading the virgin
furnace oil being produced at Karachi refineries.
This scheme was subsequently approved by the
Government and the World 3ank was approached for
part financIng of the Project, which was approved
by them.
c. Not applicable
d. A feasibility study was conducted by Perac and was
got vetted by M/s Lummus (USA) to select optimum
secondary refining scheme for the upgradation of
furnace oil into distillate fuels. The choice of
hydrocrackinq/visbreaking route for this purpose was
re-confirmed by Lummus.
10. Preparation. Agoraisal,Negotiation and Approval
a. The Project was prepared by the Borrower (PERAC)
&nd the Bank was not involved in its preparation.
b.  Information not available with 86rrower (PERAC)
c. Yes
d.  The key issues raised by World Bank included:
3.



2? -
(I)   Formulation of a new feedstock and products
pricinq policy wnuch snould be linked to
import parity prices, and which should provide
incentive to the refiners to &mprove theLr
efficiency.
(ii)  Increased private iector participation in
the Project should b, encouraged.
e. No
f. Information not available with Borrow-r (PERAC).
g. No
h. Yes
i. No subsequent problems were encountered on account
of identification., preparation and appraisal by the
Bank.
11. Target and Goals
a. As given previously, the Project is aimed at optimum
processing of crude oil, by installation of secondary
processing facilities to produce deficit distillate
fuels.
b. The petroleum products supply/demand forecasts
prepared were realistic. However, as a result of
drastic reduction of petroleum products prices, the
profitability has reduced.
c. Not applicable.
d. No other investments were envisaged.
12.  Project Description
a. The Project description has already been given
in Para 6.
b. Not applicable.
r r I    rIMPLEMENTATION
13. Already discussed in Para 6.
V4



- 23 -
14.  Effeetiveness &  Start-uo
a.  The condLtions for effectiveness of Loan Agreement were
those as speciflied *n the-Bank's General condLtions.
The only additional conditi.on pertained to the executlcn
of subsidiary loan agreement by the Borrower and any
otner entity for the Part A of the Project. There was
no delay on account of the Bank's conditions for loan
effectiveness.
b. No delay/problems was experienced at the time of Project
start-up.
15. Revisions X
a. Due to stoppage of work, the complete scope of work as
mentioned under loan agreement was not accomplished.
No signLficant changes were made in design or scope of
work. However, the loan closing date was extended
frwi June ;985 to December 1986.
b. The reasons of the Project stoppage have already been
noted under Para 6.
c.  Already explained under Para 6
d.  Closing date was extended as noted ;.n 15(a) above.
e. None.
16.  ?mDlementation Schedule
a,b,c. Oriqinally,the Project was platinolf to be commissioned
by June 1987, w ich was realisti--        However, due
to stoppage of work the target da%e and delays are not
relevant. Presently, EDS has been ompleted,
applications received for prequali!-4ation of EPC
phase have been reviewed and consi- e.rble work has
been done on EPC contract tender eL.ql'&i.y documents.
d. Not dependent.
17. Reporting s
All monthly L quarterly reports were provided regularly to
the Bank.
18. rrocurement
a. Nil
b. Nil
.5/



- 24 -
C. Nil
d. information relating to appraisal expectations
not avaLlable.
e. Not applicable.
19. Costs
a,b#c,d,e.  The scope of work as provided in the loan
agreement was not gully completed, and the
jobs done were accomplished well within
the allocated amounts.
20. Disbursement.& Financial Sources s
a.  Loan closing date was changed from June 1985 to
December 1986.
b.  About $ 3.246 million was disbursed the balance
was cancelled.
c.  All disbursement were carried out smoothly
21. Performance of Consultants, Contractors, Suppliers A Borrower
a.  The consultants performance which pertained to
Project design only, was satisfactory.
b.  Not applicable
c.  To be assessed by the Bank.  The borrower did
not face any difficulty in executinq its
responsibilities.
d.  The Bank's involvement was appropriate.
a.  The available local potential in consultancy/
Project design was adequately utilised.
IV.     OPERATION PERFORMANCE s
22,2d,24,25.   Not applicable
V.       FrNANCIAL PERFORMANCE
26,27,28.       Not applicable
.6/



- 25 -
VI.      INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE & DEVELOPMENT
29 & 30. Not applicable
31. To be assessed by the Bank
32.
a.  Due to deferment of Project, there was no
increase in employees.
b.  Not applicable.
33.
a.  Not applicable
b.  Due to stoppage of work only a skeletion staff
has been retained.
c.  Not applicable.
34.  The work completed so far was adequately performed by
locally available man power&no expatriate services
were required for management development.
35.  Not applicable
36. Not applicable
VIr.    ECONOMIC REVALUATION
37-42.   Not applicable
vrII.   BANK PERFORMANCE :
43. (a)  Pro1ect Justification & Objectives
As mentioned earlier, the total scope of work as given
in the loan agreement could not be completed due to
stoppage of work, by the Government -for Project re-
evaluation. However, this situation could not have been
envisaged at the time of loan agreement.
(b)  Project Content & Scheduling
Not applicable.
.7/



- 26 -
43 (c)   Pro1ect tmplementation and Operatinc Outcomes
i.      Preparation Requirements
The Bask pre-agresment requirements were
reasonable.
ii.     Borrower's tmol*mentation Capacity :
The as*essment by the Bank was correct.
iii.    Scheduling for Implementation of Civil Works
and Procurement
Not applicable
iv.     Soecial Covenants & Suoolementary Conditions X
Not applicable
v.      Oneratina Forecasts t
Not applicable
vi.     Bank Suoprvision
The Bank's supervision of the Project was adequate.
vii.    Working Relationship s
The working relationship between the Bank and
the Borrower was good. The Bank"s; reporting
requirements were also reasonable.
(d)  Implications of Project Outcome
Dy sanctioning loan for the Project, the Sank not only
provided finances for the basic design, but also
provided -authenticity to it. which can help in securing
future finances.
IX.      CONCLUSIONS
44.  As given earlier work on the Project was stopped after
preparation of the basic design package. As such no
meaningful conclusion can be drawn out of the work
completed.
45.  Annexure
No applicable.
3/



- 27 -
46. Maps :
The map showing the proposed location of the
Hydrocracker Project is attached herewith.



57. 
*  II,*'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
S.
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i



,vi'Yul! 1V71U 
C ,                                                                                                                     APPEN DIX4-
Dperatio SaI1Manual.Statement.
__                         _=.,--,                  , =   . .                                   ,The WoBld Gank  _-.
,    SJJ{;  COQSi'Li.Ll 1ON  RIt          T-i3JJJ. -)JyTA  SIIIIC.
COUNTRY NU NI1 iL ,IN U NANI L Or: l'KOJlCT(LOAN/CR'IT                           -
UwN IN.2218-PAK, PAWZ Li   .IX1 U4UWAT-Lum a                                         EWNR
KiL.Y l'l(JJCCT DOA1A
Allpinital                              A       eluA l 4,t
I ent                                             CAticcilaOn                           Currlne 1tsuar1aic
iotsli P4siv,I Cots (w  wAom._i. e  of Energy  CofnservatiOn.            06241.
kinaJCtrua tir Uvetui'*%     cell, at ENAR                           402000 A.1 4SAR.                                    2%)
LwndCeadii AmnunUt (USS nmillioi)                                      40.20i0
iD)aghuted                                                           402000
C-u.1.4Icd      June,  1988                                               ,                                          - A  .L
UXutsleaetJd.ng {t 
lJi.n 1'hyss:aI Conmponents Complitce                                 -TuLne,        6                      J.qJwne8
P'rfiW.tism CrupcicUd hb' Above Wog o.)                                   I too%
g.'su;e'm u u(nu Thiati Unqierun ofOctr 01 11 *4 ,%                      N~i                                 ______
VL\Iumwie 18ale of Return (%J                                                                                      -
'inj.i.n42l Pifuroitaince  ,      .
;hsI.1 fl    nunal I'cr(onnce _
OTIIEIt l'I4OJECT DATA
,ofiginal                                                    Actial or
Rlvisions                   IEst. Actal
fa'tim Mcnnioen in Filcs at I insetable . .                                                                          -
(imcavuniCtl'S Appiekalton                          *.  -                               -
itt Approv                                           -----8983
I *,mI/Cr%UJm Arfecaflat D)ole.                        __83
I 'Iro.tI%Cn4S I )wo                                                              -                           Jaf._.2 .1984
(lkning UWic                                                      .a.  --L  f14
Ik.trOvaet  i STE  DEM ZII.9X3WC6 &hIC                                    L
1'%sClllloo A;cncy'''                                 
I a11 s14 ..n Agflqet ,S4IIIC
LmmsCieCdai Nurnbgr
I aUOB't'h*Ju .\gwsm,tgasI &1JS@.e
,, * auyy ~mrvatim  .i is w  fully pmutiw.
lii.ICiAVbt tviltet pI FtvicI WJ4 $clki U lf CE*n In.
NIe.~gSCu.  CI n,isI~ dn itn   ..._. Whereappitcabt.k
AIhh itI  thih I"jr nc cuAuj@tdErl.J hI isa urc1nn161il   utc ompies suisjqcl. 4 srntjd ralng do beler. worse. at *inini tu n arloc.iol
e~'IvI.mI,'fl'w,,u i liv aslui.
\. %Ih.14 Ji SI .JnIIa(%iiI .\S1cqUtvIeIt.
I g~ijI ~ djtq* a
tAre 't,Mw.I4.I:', ir.?j%tfJ ir- the' gII.I.i. ef . oU *I qua' IIk,,IJ Spe.5 ,, a.- ( nE'f   :d .i e of. /flvIaDE ,tdeptfsrefl.. *eD a * eqw   u.,,,..ij
;;.w:, t~i, :.~e ..l  11g ,aqIC.     !J U. L unJ JIC. et .li.ii jj'.g/IaMtIi ete:e.g"  USC  .  It ikaE b' PUOD,ieJ. t  .1.., z.II J



- 30 --
Operational Manual Stateiment
The World Bank _                                             - _
MISSIUJN UATA
9 us            sI,nlns          No. U(           No of                              ()rif
|,             l~     ~    ~~ly  'ICf,,         EVsehVC$IIh4lfL*                                      'rl
Idimnisca.llon                                                                                                 __
Irc p;'at;.sr 
Asptra.taL                                                  -                                                     _....
Total
Supcervsiaon I I
Supctvlsiot 11 
etc.
Tot-
COUNTRY EXCIIANGF RATES
Mitme of CurrencY (AbbroviationX                                      PAM =N  iR..
APP8,i1si Ycat Avempe                                                               Elxchane h4ate: US5 l   .al  ... (1982|
Irmtet%elint VRI'S Averot                                                                           ussi  I-A 2l.2     1 930-5)
Completion Ycat Avrs;e                                                                              USSI 
*Nunlbct of '-day wveks shown In the mnisslon upctn plus trave tion.
'Nunmber of wc*t timets numOf of  penoas.



- 3] -
DISSURSEMENT AGAINST IORD LOAN 2218 PK
OF US * 1.401 MILLION.
Us $
1.   IBRD FEE.                            20.704.0t)
2.   ENERGY CONSERVATION STUDY.          110,817.08
;.   ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS.       568,413.82
J.1  AUTO TANK GAUGING.             287,1;0.49
3.2  FLOATING DECKS.                216,030.82
.:;  CRUDE TANK MIXERS.              65.252.51
4.   STUDV B & M PLATFORMING.             74,667.9,
5.   STUDY B & M LUBE-I REFINERY.        :93.0q95.54
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT AS ON
JUNE 30. 1987.                    1,087,698.;7
AMOUNT LEFT UN-UTILIZED.            313,301.63
CURRENCY REVALUATION
CHARGES AS ON JUNE 30, 1998         4?98,898.6Z
TOTAL:                1.586.596.93



- 32 -
STATUS OF THE PROJECTS AS ON OCT 31. 1989
PROJECT.                                 STATUS,
1.   ENERGY CONSERCATION STUDY.          COMPLETED.
2.   ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTSt
2..1  AUTO TANK GAUGING.            80X COMPLETION.
2.2  FLOATING DECKS.                50. COMPLETION.
2.4  CRUDE TANK MIXERS.             30%. COMPLETION.
J.   STUDY R & M PLATFORMING.            COMPLETED.
4.   STUDY B & M LUBE-I REFINERY.        COMPLETED.
S OVERALL COMPLETION TARGET DECEMBER, 1969 AS
ALREADY BEEN COMMITTED WITH GOVT. Of PAKISTAN.
,Mp^^.



Dperational Mianual Statement
r-                                                                            T -~~~~~~---  ~   ~~- -- *,l he World Bank B -
Wiqi[r CON?M'LlQ-lON l(LlOtT ILASLC D)ATA Si l1V'.T
COUNTRY  NUNIIIELR ANU  NAME OLr I'R()JI:CT (I.UANN/C IR wr                          -    )
tDM N0O.2218-PAXt PAPTf 8}.2 ENCM AT NML
KLY P'ROJECT DUAA
Apr(I3il                                 Acluji t(r
lwim                                                CI-CcIahlon                            Cuurcnt J;sansgte
IO&, lp4,  j st0,4 tss  ",)   i.e. of &rm            y     _rva-          -
Llndlerrull ote Uvettu8l 1')     tion Pro
Li.vn/C:r'Wit Alnunk IUSS millicin)          lects
Dlshurmcd_
-tnamelltil .@
1pkius*vlS tvo                                                                                                           _
tt.,s: l'hisical Consoonentut Cutnplted
'iuj-%,M#wn C nallpletcj hy Above Uatec M).)
,. u,vow'    q f Ta.'z Underrun or Overtun t)".J
laah'nua1c Katle o Return i';)_
I inf.Rtl.*i Vinh)rmallaec,
s,.stti&utnn at l'crfurm~ance                                                       ._______ - 
OTIIEI(t VItOJiCT DATA
Origini                                                      Acttial or
Itiaw                                     Plan                          Revisions                     Esl. Actual
I t,t Mcntininn uFiles or lTinctable                     .-_-
(;rcrl'lbcntS A.tlltcatuon                                 -                               -
rulialons                                                                                                         1K  14,19A2
aead Apprfoval                                                                           -aM  2
I .unlCrcdi Atzreccemnl Usia                                         ____-_JN_____e
r:srcXtIAencAs Ucae     WillJA-___
cIsing UWic                                          -
l'ms:,ulmSz Agens'                                                                                                 N
1 .4{;i %.:i %if t81wiato.^cf                                                        .'ly       _jn
I lil%UISI-n Ae'm N..l) :
ULawaiCi.,:jt Nutube
,xisn..aitt tUSS natitlt i
I " t"'(ai .k Agicatw lln L)tia
*HW9 O2',Ab1 AL61 C=Mzptw
Or8Wa* tsg Bw hiwr aw2J<gum-kd (b) Ezb  Ok~-   me di
' Ittgt.  -JtCI'tltf prt ert wil scakd up uir aln-alt.  C)          t    M          -30%   M
l;*t c%%hjngm  idiu'tn,ent *J            v hotc apptlcibole.*   f                              SbAp * S wr BE4 1UbB.1  M&IzuyQopleb3d
A144 fc-:111 nv tnch A'.ildlill fa11a   erni dt         I        at- a%5.   M-l                  %at  07*    CI     i
.-t,ttA ,tf t! i,s ne f heun c ;m1deb                                    O 1 a.tmina iii  t,.t larnsIJ rat-ng otlelier. worse. CM lnauI i ef .rrle.1,%i
cs    w-,, l .ul.l 1v tiselul.
* 'v si. at , L..,an ;JuA brec%zualan
-i..t i,ta- *..  ,wa % ct , %:mwrnol.
I; a" a t'..'...' wi.l ra wJ ,naI  11 C. '4 UamA taaj  C a' ua Ia..aI,. adifa     :  a.a i e at It h.aj a.t, Lie'ka. vS.4 . *efr
a.'l W.- ,r.* i; *a. Ie'.j4.t .anJ% 1i C.



-  34  -
I%%ie'II: ,JjII * I ' 7 
Operatiunal M'Aanual Stateiment
- lie World Bank                                                              -
MIISIUN UATA
S:nw liun.h.   No. uf          No.ef                              1, uef
Idl tnena,cai                                                                                                 _
Ifrc.at.."an_
Appiassal.                                              -                                 -
Total                                                    _
Sugefvi,ion I
sueettlsiOS  It
eCe.
Completio--
Tond
COUNTRY EXCIIAIlCE RATES
NKme of Cuvtency (Abbieviston)                                           -      N
APPISJ544 Ystf Avetes.                                                           Eschange Rate: USSI
IntOttetlinf YVerAs Awetace                                                                     uSs, J4.6     L4j5)
Compleiwe Year AverP                                                                            USe^5L          i)
Numtkr of -day weeks shown In lae miosion meonol plus travel timen.
'Number Of Weeks times numbet of perstos.



2.0  PROJECT IMPLEME4TATION:
Energy Cons,rvation Cell at ENAR was proposed to be established to
promote tho awarensso for industrial *nergy conservation and to
provide consultancy services for developing energy conservation
programmes for tho industrial clients. The project as concieved
under the subject World Dank Loan Agreement was cooplated in June,
1986. Salient activities completed during the *xecution of the
project are an follows:
- About 25 energy enginsers trained.
- Portable instruments for energy audits acquired.
- Comprehensive Energy Audit Manuals developed for the
following industrial sectors:
o Cement
o Petroleum Refining
o Fertilizers and Chemicals
o Power Generation
o Iron and Steol
- International Literature Survey was undertaken to locate
the source of Information for the energy conservation
studies In the following sectors:
o Petroleus Refining
o Power Generation
O fertilizer
o Cement
o Iron and Steel
o Ariculture
o Transportation
o Domestic



- 36 -
3. 0 OPERATING P'RFORMMUCE:
The Energy Conservation Cell established at ENAR with the financial
ascsitance of   I.B R D    is now fully operative and projects
handled so far are as follows:
-   Energy Conservation Studies of 17 public sector indus-
trios.
-   Energy Conservation Studies of 3 private sector indus-
tries.
-   Preparation of a monthly Energy Consumption Monitoring
Report (EMR) for 30 public sector industries.
-   Conducting an annual workshop on energy conservation
for plant engineers/managers.
-   Arranged a Nstional Seminar on Energy Conservation in
1984.
- Arranged an International Seominar on Energy Conservation
in collaboration with ENERCON in 1988.
Setting-up of an Energy Conservation Cell at ENAR has been vary
helpful in providing assistance to the public sector industries in
developing and implementing the energy conservation moasures. The
total energy consumption of the po lic sector industries is about
40 percent of the total industrial sector consumption. Comprehensive
energy audit studies has been completed for the ma4or industrial units
which constitutes about 80 percont of the total consumption of
public sector industries under the Hinistry of Production. It is
expected that by implementing the energy conservation programes
dev;loped by ENAR, the total energy consumption of the public sector
industries will be reduced by about 11 percent.



- 37 -
LART L
1. Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title     Purpose                    Approval   Status           Comments
a. Loan 2552-PAK    a) To continue the           1985    Loan       A Petroleum Products
Energy  Sector   structural adjustment                 Closing   Infrastructure
Loan I           process initiated under               Dec. 31,  Study was completed
SAL I to promote the                 1988.     under this loan.
integrated development               PCR       This study will
of the energy sector;                prepared  affect future
b) to assist GOP in                  in FY89.  decisions on the
implementing a core                            Hydrocracker
investment program                             Project.
in the energy sector;
and c) to serve as the
basis for the Bank's
expanded lending for
specific energy invest-
ments and for the more
effective coordi-
nation of external
financing for the
sector.
b. Loan 2842-PAK    a) To improve refinery        1987    Selection Project com-
Refinery Energy  efficiency; b) to                     of con-   pletion scheduled
Conservation &   reduce energy con-                    tractors  in 1992.
Modernization    sumption; c) to                       underway.
Project           increase crude oil
processing capacity,
and modify the out-
put mix to better
match demand; and d)
to strengthen pro-
duction optimization
and control systems
and train staff.



- 38 -
2. Proiect Timetable
Date         Date            Date
Item             Planned       Revised         Actual
- Identification                                 July & Nov. 1981
- Preparation                                     February 1982
- Appraisal                                      May 10-20, 1982
- Loan Negotiations    Oct. 25, 1982             Nov. 1-4, 1982
- Board Approval       Dec. 21, 1982              Dec. 14, 1982
- Loan Signature                                 January 17, 1983
- Loan Effectiveness                             April 19, 1983
- Project Completion  Dec. 31, 1984               December 1989 a/
- Loan Closing         June 30, 1985             June 30, 1986
a/ Although procurement of equipment was completed by June 30, 1986,
erection and installation had to be completed during future
scheduled refinery shutdowns. The completion date for the three
energy conservation projects included in this loan was December
1989.
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
1983         1984        1985        19861987
Appraisal Estimate          2.5           6.5       12.0
Actual                      0.2           2.1        3.1          3.7          4.5
Actual as X of Estimate-%  8.0           32.3       25.8         31.8         37.5
Note: Disbursements were well below appraisal estimate because major components
(detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents with initial
estimate of approximately $5.0 million) were deleted from the project
scope when the decision was made in November 1984 to suspend further
implementation of the Hydrocracker Project. Also, budget contingency
of $1.5 million was not required.



- 39 -
4. Proiect ImRlementation
Indicators               Appraisal Estimates                   Actual
Refinery Engineering
Process Technology  Acquire technology for critical   Licensing agreements
process units.                      signed.
Engineering          Prepare EDS.                        Completed.
Detailed engineering.               Detailed engineering
suspended because
project postponed.
Cost/financing       Prepare cost estimate and           Cost estimate completed.
financing plan.
Vendor selection    Prequalify vendors.                  Vendor qualifications
requested and preliminary
evaluation completed.
Site                 Site surveys                        Initial site planning
undertaken.
Energy Conservation
Energy Conservation Establish energy conservation        ECC established at
Unit               cell (ECC) at ENAR.                 ENAR.
Training             Conduct courses on energy           Training completed as
conservation.                       planned.
Surveys              Prepare energy conservation         ECS completed.
survey (ECS) at NRL refinery.
Equipment           Obtain monitoring equipment          Equipment purchased.
for ENAR and NRL.
Conservation         Implement programs at NRL           Procurement of equipment
Measures           refinery.                           completed June 1986.
Erection and installation
to be performed during
future scheduled refinery
shutdowns; work com-
pleted in December 1989.
Additional revamp pro-
jects identified and
engineering studies
completed by consultants.



- 410 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. PROJECT COSTS (USS THOUSANDS)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE              ACTUAL
Local    For.    Total    Local      For.   Total
Refinery Engineering (PERAC)
- Licenses                        -      2,100    2,100      -        823a/   823
- Design, Engineering and
Consulting Services             400    6,500    6,900      558   2,272   2,830
- Land Acquisition and
Surveys                       2,100        -     2,100     905       -      905
- Project Group Costs             200        -             1.121       -    1.121
2,700    8,600   11,300   2,584   3,095   5,679
Energy Conservation (ENAR)
- Consulting and Technical
Services                        300       300      600      b/      163c/   163
- Energy Monitoring Equip.                  100      100       -       24      24
300      400      700       b/     187      187
Energy Conservation (NRL)
- Consulting and Technical
Services                        100       100      200       91     490d/   581
- Energy Monitoring and
Conservation Equipment          300    1.200    1.500       540     572   1.112
400    1,300    1,700      631   1,062   1,693
Total Base Cost             3,400   10,300   13,700   3,215   4,344   7,559
Physical Contingencies        200       500      700
Price Contingencies           400    1,000    1,400
Front-End Fee                  -       z00       200       -      177     177
Total Financing Required   4.000   12.000   16.000 i,215   4.521   7.736
a/ Bank records indicate $2.151 million disbursed for license.fees.
Cost breakdown taken from PERAC project report. Total foreign currency
disbursement of $4.521 million agrees with both Bank disbursement report
and PERAC project report.
b/ Unable to determine ENAR local costs.
c/ Negotiated contract resulted in costs well below estimate.
d/ Two engineering studies, at cost of $387,000, added to scope.



- 41 -
B. PROJECT FINANCING (US$ KILLION)
Planned - Loan Agreement
Local    Foreign    Total       Final            Comments
IBRD          -        12.0       12.0       4.5      The Bank financed the final
cost of $4.5 million. The
unutilized amount of $7.5
million was cancelled on
February 26, 1987.
Other External
Sources       -         Nil        Nil       Nil
Domestic
PERAC    3.2          -         3.2       2.6
ENAR     0.4          -         0.4       -        Unable to determine ENAR
NRL      0.4          -         0.4       0.6      local costs.
TOTAL       4.0        12.0       16.0       7.7
6.  Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
6.01     PERAC has obtained the necessary process technology, an EDS, and a
capital cost estimate that will assist in the *decision process for a future
hydrocracker complex.
6.02     Through technical assistance and training and the experience gained
under the project, PERAC and its affiliated organizations have significantly
upgraded their technical skills and are capable of undertaking energy
conservation initiatives throughout Pakistan.
B. Studies
6.03     NRL has completed ar. energy conservation survey of its refinery and
identified additional cost-effective revamp projects. The Bank has agreed with
the recommendations and included these projects in a subsequent loan, 2842-PAK.
6.04     Energy conservation  surveys have been completed  for a number of
industrial units. The conclusions and recommendations of these surveys will be
instrumental in helping the GOP to achieve its goal of reduced energy
consumption.



- 42 -
7.       Status of Covenants
Loan                                                  Deadline
Agreement        Subject                          for Compliance         Status
3.01     PERAC to relend about $400,000                               Compliedwith
equivalent to ENAR and about
$1,400,000 equivalent to NRL under
terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.02     PERAC, ENAR, and NRL to hire, on                                - do -
terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, specialized energy
and engineering consultants to
perform engineering services.
4.02     Furnish to the Bank within six                                  - do -
months of the close of every
financial year certified copies of
annual financial statements and
audits of above entities and
corresponding audit reports.
5.01     Subsidiary loan agreements between    April 19, 1983            - do -
PERAC and ENAR and NRL, respectively
to be executed prior to loan effec-
tiveness.
Guarantee                                             Deadline
Agreement        SutJect                          for Compliance         Status
2.03     GOP to carry out a study and              June 30, 1983   Financing plan
prepare proposals regarding pricing                        submitted
policies and financing plan for the                       Oct. 15, 1983.
hydrocracker complex and to submit                         Pricing policy
the proposals for Bank review and                         not submitted
comment by June 30, 1983.                                 during term of
loan.



- 43 -
8.       Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Stage of                 Planned        Revised            Final
Proiect Cycle          HQ    Field I HO       Field     HO + Field        Comments
Thru Appraisal                                               15.1
Post-Appraisal                                                3.0
thru Bd Approval
Bd Approval                                                   1.7
thru Effectiveness
Supervision                                                  19.2
Total                                                      44.0



- 44 -
B. Missions
Performance
Stage of                    No. of    Days in   Specialization   Rating    Types of
Project Cycle  Month/Year  Persons    Field       Reference a/   Status b/  Problems cl
Identification  July 1981      1         1       FNA
Preparation     Nov. 1981      3         3       FNA, CHEM.ENG,
MGMT
Preparation     Feb. 1982      2         1       FNA, CHEM.ENG
Appraisal       May 1982       3        10       CHEM.ENG, ECON
REF.ENG
Supervision I   Aug. 1983      2         2       REF.ENG, FNA         NA          NA
Supervision 1I  Aug.-Sept.'83 4          5       CHEM.ENG, LO,         2          T
REF.ENG, YP
Supervision III May 1984       1         3       FNA                   2          NA
Supervision IV  Jan.-Feb.'85  1          2       FNA                    2         NA
Supervision V   July-Aug.'85  2          4       REF.ENG(2)           NA          NA
Supervision VI  Feb. 1986      5         1       REF.ENG(2), FNA      NA          NA
ECON, MGMT
a/ FNA - Financial Analyst            i/ 1 - Problem-free
CHEM.ENG - Chemical Engineer           2 - Moderate problems
REF.ENG - Refinery Engineer            3 - Major problems
LO - Loan Officer                     NA - Not Available
ECON - Economist
YP - Young Professional             S/ M - Managerial
MGMT - Management (Chief)              T - Technical
NA - Not Available



