Document of                           F        i
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3414-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$12 MILLION
TO THE
STATE PETROLEUM REFINING AND PETROCHEMICAL CORPORATION LT]
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
November 19, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1             =   Rs 11.9 1/
Rs 1             =   US$0.08
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Pakistan and PERAC Group
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                             Asian Development Bank
ARL                             Attock Refinery Ltd.
BCF                             Billion cubic feet
BP                              British Petroleum
BTU                             British thermal unit
DGER                            Directorate General of Energy Resources
EDS                             Engineering design specification
ENAR                            ENAR Petrotech Services Ltd.
EPC                             Engineering, procurement and construc-
tion
GOP                             Government of Pakistan
HOBC                            High octane blending component
LPG                             Liquified petroleun gas
MW                              Megawatt
NPC                             National Petrocarbon Ltd.
NRL                             National Refinery Ltd.
OGDC                            Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PBS                             Pakistan Burmah Shell Ltd
PERAC                           State Petroleum Refining and Petro-
chemical Corporation Ltd.
POL                             Pakistan Oilfields Ltd.
PRL                             Pakistan Refinery Ltd.
PSO                             Pakistan State Oil Ltd.
SAL                             Structural adjustment loan
SCFD                            Standard cubic feet per day
TCF                             Trillion cubic feet
TOE                             Tonnes oil equivalent
tpy                             Tonnes per year
UNIDO                           United Nations Industrial Development
Organisation
1/ As of January 1982, the Rupee was placed on a floating basis against a
basket of currencies. A rate of Rs 11.9/US$1 is used throughout this
report, except where historical data are being presented for earlier
periods, in which case the applicable rate is identified in the text.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                State Petroleum Refining and Petrochemical Corpora-
tion Ltd. (PERAC).
Guarantor:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiaries:           State Petroleum Refining and Petrochemical Corpora-
tion Ltd. (PERAC), ENAR Petrotech Services Ltd. and
National Refinery Ltd. (NRL).
Amount:                  US$12 million equivalent (including capitalized
front-end fee).
Terms:                   Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:         PERAC would relend US$0.4 million to ENAR and US$1.4
million to NRL on terms satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Description:    (1)  Refinery Engineering.  First stage design and
basic engineering work for a hydrocracker
project, including: (a) licensing agreements
for provision of technical know-how, (b)
preparation of an engineering design specifica-
tion package, (c) preparation of capital cost
estimates, (d) prequalification of engineering
firms and contractors for implementation of the
hydrocracker project and (e) site surveys.
(2) Energy Conservation. (a) Institution-building
measures to strengthen the ability of ENAR to
undertake industrial energy audits and conserva-
tion studies, including staff training by
specialist consultants and acquisition of
instrumentation and equipment; (b) Energy con-
servation measures at the existing facilities of
NRL including (i) an energy audit and follow-up
conservation studies, (ii) acquisition of energy
monitoring instrumentation and (iii) investments
to improve fixed heater efficiencies and reduce
evaporation losses in crude oil storage. The
project involves no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of l
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimatea Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
…US$ million------…
(a) Refinery Engineering (PERAC)
- Licenses                              -        2.1        2.1
- Design, Engineering and
Consulting Services                  0.4       6.5        6.9
- Land Acquisition and Surveys         2.1        -         2.1
- Project Group Costs                  0.2        -         0.2
2.7      8.6       11.3
(b) Energy Conservation (ENAR)
- Consulting and Technical Services  0.3         0.3        0.6
- Energy Monitoring Equipment           -        0.1        0.1
0.3      0.4        0.7
(c) Energy Conservation (NRL)
- Consulting and Technical Services  0.1         0.1        0.2
- Energy Monitoring and Conserva-
tion Equipment                       0.3       1.2       1.5
0.4      1.3        1.7
Total Base Cost                        3.4      10.3       13.7
Physical Contingencies                 0.2       0.5        0.7
Price Contingencies                    0.4       1.0        1.4
Front-End Fee                           -        0.2        0.2
Total Financing Required               4.0      12.0       16.0
Note: Local costs are net of taxes and duties.



-iii-
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
---US$ million-------
Bank                                 -      12.0       12.0
PERAC                               3.2       -         3.2
ENAR                                0.4       -         0.4
NRL                                 0.4       _         0.4
Total                      4.0      12.0      16.0
Estimated Disbursements:
FY83     FY84      FY85
Annual 1/                            2.5      4.0       5.5
Cumulative                           2.5      6.5      12.0
Rate of Return:                             not applicable.
Map:                                        IBRD 16248
1/ Front-end fee included in estimated FY83 disbursement.



I



iNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
STATE PETROLEUM REFINING AND PETROCHEMICAL CORPORATION LTD.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR
A REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the State Petroleum Refining and Petrochemical Corporation Ltd. (PERAC)
with the guarantee of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of
US$12 million to help finance a Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency
Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. Part of the proceeds of the
loan would be relent to subsidiaries of PERAC responsible for carrying out
the energy efficiency components of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Econoriic Developments and
Prospects" (No. 3802-PAK, dated April 14, 1982) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on April 16, 1982.
3.      The past five years have witnessed a significant economic recovery in
Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY82 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging about 2.8%
p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by
10% p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 3.8% p.a. and in
industry by 9.3% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with the economic
stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only
3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather and higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the
Middle East. Various policy changes introduced by the Government have also
contributed significantly to the recovery.
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention hag been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. At the
same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy (which has
been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the development
budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for other priority
agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices Commission has
been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes in crop support
and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.



-2-
6.      The Government has formulated and beguin to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water
delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better
scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the
private sector, for example, through the promotion of private tubewell
development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesticides,
seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm power--have also
been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an early stage and a
breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet
to take place.
7.      Major changes have also been made during the past four years in
Government policies in the industrial sector.  The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricul-
tural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; con-
stitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against further
arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector
have been widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise
and import duty concessions, concessionary credit and income tax provisions,
and direct cash rebates have been granted to encourage private investment and
exports. These have been supplemented by a partial liberalization of imports
which have improved the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning
procedure has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in
private sector confidence and to a sharp increase in private investment,
mainly in small and medium-scale projects.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Mlajor studies have been com-
pleted of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. These
measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled
technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer
subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity utilization sub-
stantially in the public sector.
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past five years and
the Government-s efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes and
reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. The budgetary
situation improved significantly during FY80 through FY82. Government



-3-
revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79, rose by an
average of 18% p.a. during the next three years as a result of the continued
growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases and intensified efforts to
improve tax collections.  Although political developments outside Pakistan's
borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on
total spending; the growth of public expenditures was limited to 13% p.a.
The expansion of development and administrative expenditures were restrained,
while subsidies were reduced by more than 25%. These restraints on expendi-
tures, continued revenue growth and some improvement in surpluses generated
by public sector agencies helped to increase the availability of
non-inflationary domestic resources. During FY80 through FY82, the overall
budget deficit averaged 5.7% of GNP and the bank-financed budget deficit 1.7%
of GNP; both figures are well below those of the late 1970s.
10.     Pakistan's export performance improved considerably between FY77 and
FY81. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, also greatly assisted the external
position. These increases, however, were partly offset by an increase in the
value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants, fertilizer, edible
oil and capital goods. The current account deficit was US$947 million or
3.1% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77
in current prices.
11.     A number of developments contributed favorably to Pakistan's ability
to finance the FY81 current account deficit. These included the conclusion
of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF in fiovember 1980; a
positive response from aid donors to the country's improved economic perfor-
mance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows; and an agreement
with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of debt
service payments on official concessional debt falling due over an 18-month
period beginning mid-January 1981. As a consequence of inproved performance
on both current account and capital account, foreign exchange reserves
L';reased from US$748 million to US$1,058 million during the year; the latter
was the equivalent of about two months' worth of import of goods and serv-
ices.
12.     The balance of payments deteriorated somewhat during FY82.  The
principal reasons were a 17% decline in the value of exports coupled with
relatively slow growth of migrant remittances (6%). For Pakistan's major
exports, rice and cotton, the combination of deteriorating world economic
conditions plus output expansion in other countries led to a decline in both
unit values and volumes. For manufactured exports, the slowdown in the world
economy and the deterioration in Pakistan's competitiveness resulting from
the linkage of the rupee to the US dollar up to January 1982 led to a decline
in value as compared with the previous year. Because of the decline in world
petroleum prices and import substitution in some key sectors (most par-
ticularly, fertilizers), the volume of imports of essential raw materials and



-4-
capital goods could still grow sufficiently to provide for a real GDP expan-
sion of 6% while the total value of imports expanded by only 1%. Owing to
the above factors, Pakistan's current account deficit rose from US$947 mil-
lion in FY81 to US$1,530 million in FY82 (the latter being equivalent to 4.4%
of GNP). Net inflows of official assistance, private capital and IMF resour-
ces were not sufficient to cover the increased deficit and there was a draw-
down of about US$250 million in reserves. At the end of FY82, reserves were
US$809 million, the equivalent of about 1.5 months of imports.
13.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent welcome
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its
recently improved economic performance over the present decade and bring
about a modest improvement in the living standards of its population. These
issues include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agricul-
ture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
improve performance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying behind
continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service
expenditures; and the problems of resource mobilization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economyTs mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite recent
improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental factors continue
to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied
by the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output
growth has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available
inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still
exists for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears
essential to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and
programs which would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The
importance of increasing farm productivity is now more widely recognized in
the Government and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem.
Nevertheless, support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water
management and other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to
be intensified, while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accom-
panied by necessary adjustments in output and consumer prices.
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growith rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain below the levels
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets. Although there have been some recent improvements in the
output and profitability of public enterprises, these improvements need to be



-5-
carried further through appropriate reforms to remove distortions in pricing
and improve performance criteria and incentives to managers. To assist the
recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased momentum in the
industrial sector will require an adequate supply of local and foreign
financing, both for investments and current inputs, and the more rapid provi-
sion of necessary utilities and other infrastructure requirements. At the
same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive system
supports those industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage.
Analysis is in progress to determine levels of effective protection in order
to provide the basis for formulating an appropriate industrial development
strategy for the 1980s.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector
has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign
private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological
and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the
development of existing fields has been slow; and the benefits of Pakistan's
considerable potential in the oil and gas sector are yet to be realized. The
Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relating to such mat-
ters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order to realize this
potential.
17.  W4hile it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the com-
modity-producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously hand-
icapped the country-s ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the
socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines in
fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved
health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that
population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services
have been low and undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban
health facilities. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this
problem; a new and more promising population program is in the initial stages
of implementation, and several special programs to improve basic health and
education facilities were introduced in the FY82 budget, especially for rural
areas.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive and
the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will have
to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external resource



-6-
constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments, a fundamen-
tal improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the economy,
particularly in public savings. At 13% of GNP, national savings are substan-
tially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but are still low for a
country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage of development.  The
continuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending,
improve the performance of the public sector and encourage private investment
will help to reduce present imbalances between investment and savings flows.
At the same time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining
private consumption through further appropriate price adjustments and selec-
tive duty increases on non-essential imports. Continued restraints on spend-
ing and measures to further improve revenues through improvements in tax
administration and tax and rate increases (for example, property taxes,
domestic water rates and irrigation water charges) are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for exariple, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector. Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels
and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to face
a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in demand
management and in planning, incentives and government programs in agricul-
ture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more conducive to
rapid economic growth and better international trade performance,and have
established an improved framework within which further reforms can be effec-
tively pursued. The recent government policy initiatives, which have been
formulated in close consultation with the Bank and Fund, lhave improved Pakis-
tan's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing and for a blend of Bank and
IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of calendar 1981, Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which US$4.6 bil-
lion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.2 billion
to OPEC and US$1.9 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1981, the Bank Group-s share in Pakistan-s
external public indebtedness was 13.8% and in external debt service was
13.3%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports of
goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 10% in 1981,
should rise slowly during the 1980s, even assuming substantial commercial
borrowing, reaching 12% in 1985 and about 17.5% in 1990.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approxinately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for agriculture,
31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for educa-
tion. Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for
railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications
and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting econonic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and
waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, live-
stock development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending
is to assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of avail-
able land and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding
investments, as recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the
Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$270 mil-
lion for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC),
and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), total-
ing US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also included assistance
to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for small-scale industry. IFC
has made investments in 15 Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$92.2 mil-
lion, of which US$82.4 million was by way of loans and US$9.8 million by
equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$33.9 million
of these investments remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC
include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles, two
in food and food processing, and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers,



-8-
plastics, wood processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a shareholder in
PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications has
shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing                   a
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the
institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port
Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and federal
and provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has
assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and
Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respec-
tively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under the Indus
Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a
petroleum development project and begun to play an important role in
strengthening the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are
assisting in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic
energy resources. A second water supply project in Lahore is currently under
implementation. Five credits for education, totaling US$62.5 million, have
assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher technical and
agricultural education, middle-level training of primary teachers and
agricultural extension agents.
28.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan's
development through program assistance. A first structural adjustment lend-
ing operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1982.
This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in government
development planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy
and industrial sectors.
29.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some
projects have experienced initial delays due to protracted government proce-
dures for project approval, which have now been streamlined, and to slowness
in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and
technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East, and budgetary
constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
30.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan.  These include projects for
water supply, population planning, oil and gas development, and education.
Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints for the reasons set
out in Part 1. To assist the Government to finance agricultural and other



-9-
high-priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component, financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
31.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakis-
tan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND PETROLEUM SECTORS
A. Energy Sector
32.     Inadequate domestic production of energy has becone an increasingly
serious constraint to economic growth in Pakistan. While recent efforts to
expand domestic energy supplies have led to moderate increases in domestic
production, particularly of hydro-electricity, the country remains heavily
dependent upon imported petroleum to meet its primary energy requirements.
Tn 1980/81 imports of crude oil and petroleum products totalled US$1.6 bil-
lion, equivalent to 26% of total imports. The Government has instituted a
range of policies to encourage further exploration and development of domes-
tic energy resources and to facilitate greater private participation in the
sector, and is strengthening its institutional capacity in energy planning,
development and conservation. Under the Three-Year (FY82-84) Public Sector
Development Program, public investment in energy is planned to increase from
20.7% of total public investment in FY81 to 27.8% in FY84.
Pakistan's Energy Supply and Consumption
33.     In 1980/81, consumption of commercial energy in Pakistan reached 13.0
million tons of oil equivalent (TOE), having increased at a rate of 7.1% p.a.
during the previous decade. During this period, the composition of commer-
cial energy supply changed substantially, with the share of natural gas and
hydro-electricity in total energy supply increasing from 46% to 58% and that
of oil (90% of which is imported) dropping from 45% to 37% (Annex IV). The
domestic coal industry, which until recently had received little attention,
stagnated in absolute terms. On the consumption side, industry and transpor-
tation remained as the major consumers of commercial energy, representing 32%
and 21%, respectively, of energy use in 1980/81. Commercial energy repre-
sented 58% of total energy use in the country, with non-commercial energy
sources accounting for the remaining 42% (firewood, 23%; bagasse and other
vegetable residues, 12%; and dungcake, 7%).
The Energy Resource Base
34.     Natural Gas.  Pakistan has significant reserves of natural gas, which
was first discovered in 1952 and currently supplies about 42% of commercial



-10-
energy requirements. Recent estimates place proven recoverable gas reserves
at 12.9 trillion cubic feet (TCF). Although production of gas in 1980/81 at
nearly 300 billion cubic feet (BCF) was 15.4% higher than in 1979/80, poten-
tial demand exceeds supply. To further increase gas production, the Gas
Investment Plan currently under formulation by GOP envisages investments in
field development of US$488 million (constant 1981 prices) and associated
pipeline investments of about US$100 million. These investments have been
designed to achieve a production increase of 190 BCF per year by 1986, or a
66% increase over present output. It is estimated that, by developing all
other presently known gas bearing structures, further supply increases of
about 200 BCF per year could be achieved over the longer term. Even these
supply increases, however, are expected to be insufficient to meet the
country's energy demand requirements in the early 1990s.
35.     Oil.  Known domestic oil reserves are modest, with recoverable reser-
ves estimated at about 70 million barrels (plus 34 million barrels of conden-
sate from the Dhodak natural gas field). These reserve estimates are sub-
stantially below some previous estimates due principally to the downward
re-evaluation of the potential of the largest single known field at Meyal,
where the geological structure has proved to be more complicated than
anticipated. Since 1977, when the Government introduced nore attractive
terms for exploration and production by private oil companies, exploration
activity has increased substantially but total domestic crude production has
remained steady, averaging about 3.6 million barrels (490,000 tons) p.a.
This domestic output represented only 10% of total crude oil processed by the
refineries in Pakistan in 1981. In view of the large share of oil in the
total energy balance (36.6% of commercial energy consumption) and the modest
level of domestic crude oil output, Pakistan is heavily dependent upon
imports of crude oil (4.0 million tons in 1980/81) and refined products (1.6
million tons in 1980/81), principally diesel and kerosene. The cost of
imports of crude and products in 1980/81 was US$1.6 billion; net of surplus
product exports (449,700 tons of fuel oil and 108,600 tons of naphtha), the
import cost was US$1.3 billion.
36.     Hydro-Electricity.  In 1980/81, hydro-electric power capacity of
1,850 MWJ accounted for 15.9% of commercial energy requirenents and 56% of
total power generated. The total potential for hydro power (mainly on the
Indus and Jhelum rivers) is estimated at between 10,000 and 30,000 MW.
Investments under the present Three-Year Public Sector Development Program
at Tarbela and long-term plans at Kalabagh, Tarbela and Mangla sites envisage
a total increment in hydro capacity of about 1,000 MW by nid-1985, a further
1,825 MW between 1985 and 1990 and 1,760 MW from Kalabagh by the mid-1990s.
These increases would maintain the share of hydro in total power generation
at its present level.
37.     Coal and Nuclear.  Coal production of 1.6 million tons p.a. (90% of
which is used for brick making) supplied only 5.3% of comnercial energy in
1980/81. The Geological Survey of Pakistan estimates total recoverable



-11-
reserves of coal at 640 million tons, of which only 20% are proven. Most of
the proven coal reserves are of poor quality. The Governnent is now placing
greater emphasis on the'development of coal; this strategy would be assisted
under a proposed Bank project to assess possible development of coal supplies
in the Duki area of Baluchistan province for power generation. Pakistan has
one operational nuclear power station which provided 0.2% of commercial
energy consumption in 1980/81; a second is planned.
Energy Sector Organization
38.     Overall responsibility for coordinating national energy planning has
been assigned to the Planning and Development Division of the Ministry of
Finance, Planning and Economic Affairs. The Ministry of Petroleum and
Natural Resources (MPNR) has wide-ranging responsibilities for the develop-
ment and execution of many aspects of energy policy; it is also the sponsor-
ing ministry for two of the three refinery companies operating in the country
in which the Government has, directly or indirectly, minority ownership
(Attock Refinery Ltd. and Pakistan Refinery Ltd.). The Ministry-s respon-
sibilities include: (a) technical and financial regulation of the refinery
sector; (b) administering prices for oil products at the production and
distribution levels; (c) the approval of all proposed contracts entered into
by the refineries to import crude oil or export refined products; (d) energy
sector statistical services; and (e) the promotion of renewable energy
projects and energy conservation. The Ministry of Production is involved in
the energy sector as the sponsoring ministry for the Government-owned State
Petroleum Refining and Petrochemical Corporation Ltd. (PERAC) which has
several subsidiaries including National Refinery Ltd. (NRL), in which PERAC
is the majority shareholder.
39.     Another government institution, the Oil and Gas Development Corpora-
tion (OGDC), shares with private operators the responsibility for exploration
and development of oil and gas resources. Two predominantly private com-
panies also play important roles in oil and gas production: Pakistan
Petroleum Ltd. (PPL), which operates the Sui gas field, and Pakistan Oil-
fields Ltd. (POL), which operates the Meyal oil field. Shell, British
Petroleum, Occidental and Union Texas are among the international companies
actively involved in exploration. The Government has recently adopted
policies to encourage greater private involvement in the sector, both through
improved financial incentives and by inviting private sector participation in
areas held under license by OGDC.
Energy Conservation
40.     The increasing burden of oil imports on Pakistan's balance of pay-
ments has made GOP aware of the importance of measures to control energy
demand through pricing policies and the promotion and implementation of
energy conservation measures. The MPNR, which is responsible for overseeing
all energy conservation efforts, has initiated broad promotional campaigns



-12-
and demonstration projects for renewable energy. At present, it is con-
centrating on building up staff and expertise in this area through technical
assistance from various agencies (including UNIDO for estimating energy
balances for selected industries and ADB for a review of energy consumption
in the textile, glass and leather industries). In the actual implementation
of industrial energy conservation policies, the MPNR is expected to rely
considerably on the Ministries of Industry (for the private sector) and of
Production (for public enterprises). The Ministry of Production has recently
sponsored several industrial energy audits using the services of ENAR
Petrotech Services Ltd., a PERAC subsidiary, which has an established staff
of competent engineers and systems analysts. To enable it to play an
increasing role in developing industrial conservation programs at plant
level, ENAR is planning to form an Energy Conservation Unit within the com-
pany to carry out additional energy audits and energy conservation studies,
including one proposed for the fertilizer industry. Measures to strengthen
ENAR's capability in this field are included under the proposed project
(paragraph 64).
Energy Strategy
41.     Pakistan's energy strategy is at a transitional stage.  Until
recently there was considerable optimism that domestic supplies of natural
gas, together with some expansion in hydro-electric facilities, would meet
much of the country's increase in energy requirements. However, recent data
indicate that in the long term proven gas reserves will be inadequate to meet
the rapidly growing demand and that, in the short and mid-term, supplies will
be limited by the lack of adequate treatment and transmission facilities.
GOP development policies are being adjusted to this new situation. As dis-
cussed below, reforms in wellhead and consumer pricing have been initiated.
In the immediate future there is a need to moderate gas demand and to
increase the use of alternative fuels in the power sector through the conver-
sion of some power stations presently burning gas to fuel oil. In addition,
a number of new power stations may be based on fuel oil and other alternative
fuels such as coal. Work on a comprehensive energy plan is under way with
Bank assistance.
42.     Natural gas prices to consumers have in recent years been set far
below equivalency with competing fuels and gas demand has grown so rapidly
that various forms of quantitative rationing have been adopted (such as
seasonal reductions in supply to the power sector and a strict quota for new
domestic connections). Under the on-going Structural Adjustment Loan and
Credit (Loan No. 2166/Credit No. 1255-PAK) GOP has stated its intention of
raising gas consumer prices to two thirds of fuel oil parity by FY88 (the
present ratio is about 30%). Incentives to explore for and develop new oil
discoveries are attractive and have induced an increased level of activity
with private participation. Prices for oil from existing fields, previously



-13-
set at low levels, have recently been increased and are now considered ade-
quate to encourage the required investments. Incentives for exploration and
development of gas have also been improved.
Bank Group Involvement
43.     World Bank group operations in Pakistan in the energy sector have
included several power projects and substantial assistance for the extension
of the gas distribution system and for domestic oil production at the Toot
field. In addition, IFC has participated in financing the expansion in
capacity at Attock Refinery and the development of the Meyal field; it is
also planning to participate in the further development of the Sui Gas field.
The Bank's recent economic dialogue with GOP has focused on issues in the
energy sector which is one of the major policy areas being addressed under
the Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit. This dialogue has assisted GOP to
formulate long-term plans for the sector and has led to agreements under the
SAL on important policy changes in the sector, including tndertakings to:
(a) promote the accelerated exploration of concession areas held under
license by OGDC, inter alia, through the negotiation of private sector par-
ticipation; (b) implement GOP's revised gas development strategy, inter alia,
through inducing additional private investment; (c) progressively rationalize
consumer/user prices of natural gas in relation to alternative energy forms;
(d) strengthen and reorganize OGDC; and (e) work on an agreed program of data
collection and analysis leading to the preparation of a long-term integrated
energy plan for Pakistan.
B. Petroleum and Refining Sector
Petroleum Exploration and Production
44.     In the medium to long-term there are reasonable prospects for modest
increases in domestic oil production in Pakistan. More than a dozen poten-
tial structures have been seismically defined by OGDC; other areas with
hydrocarbon potential have been identified which have not yet been adequately
evaluated; and the recent discovery of crude oil in the south of the country
(at Khashkheli) opens up new exploration possibilities. However, the scope
for large oil discoveries appears limited. Despite a higher level of
exploration following the introduction of new incentive policies in 1977, no
new commercial discoveries apart from Khashkheli have been made in recent
years and new survey data suggest that fields may be smaller and harder to
find than earlier anticipated.
Consumption of Petroleum Products
45.     During the past ten years consumption of petroleuTI products in Pakis-
tan grew at an average annual rate of 5%, from 2.8 million tons in 1972 to
4.3 million tons in 1981 as shown in Annex V. The major growth in consump-
tion was for transportation fuels (gasoline, high-speed diesel (HSD) and



-14-
aviation fuel) which now account for 66% of total demand, with HSD alone
accounting for 45%' of the total. Kerosene accounts for an additional 12% of
consumption and is used in the domestic sector for cooking and lighting.
Fuel oil accounts for 17% of petroleum consumption and is used mainly in
industry and on a seasonal basis in the power sector as a back-up fuel for
periods of low availability of hydro-electricity. Light diesel oil, account-
ing for 5% of consumption, is used mainly in the agricultural sector for
small irrigation pumps. In spite of the high growth rate in petroleum con-
sumption, the share of petroleum in total commercial energy supplies
decreased from 43% in 1972 to 37% in 1981.
Petroleum Refining Capacity
46.     There are three oil refineries in Pakistan, two in the private and
one in the public sector, with a total crude capacity of 6.1 million tpy.
The smallest refinery is that operated by the Attock Refinery Ltd. (ARL) with
a capacity of 1.5 million tpy of crude located on the outskirts of Rawal-
pindi; this refinery operates exclusively on the basis of indigenous crude
supplies from various small domestic fields in the region. The two larger
refineries operated by Pakistan Refinery Ltd. (PRL) and National Refinery
Ltd. (NRL) with capacities of 2.5 and 2.1 million tpy, respectively, are
located on the coast near Karachi. Except for small amounts of crude
produced in recent months from the Khashkheli field, these two refineries
have processed exclusively imported crude.
47.     ARL is owned 52.5% by private Saudi/Kuwait interests, 35% by GOP,
7.5% by IFC and the remaining 5% by private local interests. It operates
facilities dating from 1911 that were subject to a major capacity expansion
in 1978 from 0.47 million tpy to 1.5 million tpy with IFC assistance. At
that time, a major increase in the domestic output of crude was anticipated,
based mainly on exploitation of the Meyal oil field. However, this increase
has not yet materialized--supplies have remained almost constant at about 0.5
million tpy--so that considerable excess capacity now exists at ARL. The
fuels section of the refinery is of simple configuration and lacks secondary
processing facilities.
47.     The refinery facilities of PRL commenced operations in 1962.  The
main shareholders at that time were Shell, Burmah Oil, Exxon and Caltex,
which between them held 60% of the equity, with proportionate product
off-take rights. In 1976 Exxon voluntarily withdrew from refining and dis-
tribution in Pakistan, selling its interest to Pakistan State Oil Company
(PSO). The present ownership of PRL is Shell, 15%; Burmah Oil, 15%; Caltex,
12%; PSO, 18%; local institutions (insurance groups, Karachi Gas Company,
etc.), 12%; and private investors, 28%. The PRL refinery is a simple
hydro-skimming refinery with no secondary processing facility, and all of the
reduced crude produced has to be converted into fuel oil by blending with
diluents such as kerosene and diesel oils.



-15-
49.     NRL, which is under effective public control through PERAC (paragraph
38), commenced operations in 1966 with facilities to process 0.6 million tpy
of crude oil. Subsequently, in 1978, a second refinery line with a capacity
of about 1.5 million tpy was put into operation to give a total crude
processing capacity of 2.1 million tpy. In 1979, a 30,000 tpy aromatics
complex was added to the company. NRL is the most complex refinery in Pakis-
tan and produces a complete range of fuel products, lube base oils, bitumen
and aromatics. At present a major expansion of the lube oil complex is under
implementation which, when completed in 1984, will increase the lube base oil
production to 170,000 tpy. NRL is also planning to debottleneck and increase
the existing crude oil distillation capacity by about 0.6 million tpy by
1984.
Suppy and Demand Balances for Petroleum Products
50.     A comparison of actual production and consumption of refined products
in 1980/81 with forecasts for 1988/89 is shown in Annex VI. Crude processed
in 1980/81 was 4.3 million tons (3.8 million tons of product) or 71% of the
refinery capacity of 6.1 million tons. This relatively low capacity utiliza-
tion was due to: (i) lack of local crude supplies to ARL, such that its
facilities operated at only 29% of design capacity; and (ii) product mix
constraints and restricted availability of imported crude such that PRL and
NRL were operating at an average 84% of capacity. While the country s over-
all refining capacity is adequate compared to current overall demand levels,
the sector faces a serious structural problem currently faced by most
developing countries: there is an imbalance between domestic demand and
supply of individual refined products, due to the simple configuration of the
refineries and absence of secondary conversion facilities with a consequent
lack of flexibility in changing the product mix. Due in part to this
Imbalance, in 1981 Pakistan had a major deficit of high value middle distil-
lates (kerosene and diesel oil) necessitating imports of 1.4 million tons of
these products, equivalent to 46% of local consumption, while 1.47 million
tons of low value fuel oil was produced, of which 0.64 million tons had to be
exported (43% of production). This structural problem in the industry adds
substantially to the country s petroleum import bill. Unless steps are taken
to modify refinery configurations and eventually install additional capacity,
the deficit of distillate products will continue to increase to an estimated
2.7 million tpy in 1989 (2.5 million tpy of diesel oil and kerosene repre-
senting 55% of their demand) even after allowing for increased capacity
utilization at ARL (assuming improved local crude supplies) and PRL, with a
corresponding production of 1.64 million tpy of fuel oil. Under the proposed
loan the preparatory work for a Hydrocracker Project would be carried out
which would allow processing of low value fuel oil from PPL and NRL into high
value distillates and thus decrease the import requirements for high value
distillates by 0.69 million tpy. However, even after implementation of this
project, by 1988/89 the country will still need to import about 2 million tpy
of middle distillates.



-16-
Distribution of Petroleum Products
51.     The distribution and marketing of petroleum products within Pakistan
is undertaken by three companies; their current shares of the domestic fuel
market are Pakistan State Oil Ltd. (PSO) 58%, Pakistan Burmah Shell Ltd. 30%
and Caltex 12%. PSO is owned 25% by GOP, 51% by local financial institutions
and 24% by private Pakistani investors. PBS is owned 51% by Pakistani inter-
ests (financial institutions and members of the general public) and 24.5%
each by Shell Petroleum Company Ltd. and Burmah Oil Company Ltd.
52.     The distribution companies are allowed ex ante distribution margins
based on underestimated theoretical costs; ex post they can reclaim the
difference between the allowance and their actual costs. The movement of
products has been greatly facilitated since March 1981 by the opening of a
865 km, 16-inch product pipeline from Keamari (near Karachi) to Gujarat (near
Multan in the center of the country). The pipeline is owned and operated by
the Pakistan Arab Refinery Company (PARCO), owned 40% by the Abu Dhabi
National Oil Company and 60% by GOP. The pipeline now transports all sup-
plies of high speed diesel and superior kerosene moved north from the coast,
currently about 1.3 million tons p.a. Transport by rail and road continues
to be important for other products, and for distribution from the oil market-
ing companies' joint installation at Mahmood Kot near Gujarat, which is fed
by the pipeline, to wholesale depots and retailers.
Petroleum Product Pricing
53.     Most petroleum products sold domestically are covered by government
price controls both at ex-refinery and consumer levels. Retail prices for
petroleum products have been equalized for all locations in the country since
1966. During recent years GOP has made considerable progress in raising
consumer prices to reflect international prices more adequately and Govern-
ment policy is to pass on petroleum product cost increases promptly to the
final consumers. As a result, consumer prices are generally in line with
imported (border) prices, with local gasoline prices significantly higher
at US$2.40 per gallon, and fuel oil lower (Annex VII).
54.     Ex-refinery prices are set by GOP at a level that is intended to
allow the refineries to earn a 15% return (net of taxes) on their paid up
share capital. In practice, during periods of increases in international
crude oil prices, increases in ex-refinery prices have not fully reflected
increased costs, resulting in liquidity problems and the need for ad hoc
payments by GOP to the refineries to achieve the guaranteed return.
Ex-refinery prices for ARL have been lower than those for NRL and PRL to
reflect the lower prices of local crude processed by ARL compared to the cost
of imported crude processed by PRL and NRL. The present system for setting
ex-refinery pricing does not take into account product mix, productivity and
capacity utilization, and gives little incentive for efficient operation or
for reinvestment. It is to the credit of the managements of the refineries



-17-
that, notwithstanding the lack of incentives, the refineries are well
operated and, in the case of NRL, the company is prepared to make investments
to improve energy efficiency. During negotiations for the proposed Engineer-
ing Project the merits of alternative systems for setting petroleum prices
at the ex-refinery level were discussed with GOP and an understanding was
reached on the need to improve the present pricing system. Agreement on
suitable modifications in the system for setting ex-refinery prices would be
necessary in connection with possible Bank assistance for the Hydrocracker
Project that would follow the proposed Engineering Project.
C. Project Sponsors: The PERAC Group
55.     A new company will be formed. to implement and eventually operate the
planned Hydrocracker Project to be implemented after the completion of the
proposed Engineering Project. While the final ownership pattern of the new
company is still to be finalized, the Government intends to maximize the
participation of private interests. On the basis of ongoing discussions,
PERAC is exploring an ownership equity structure in which PERAC and its
subsidiaries would own about 35%, financial institutions and banks 35% and
private investors 30%. PERAC has been responsible for the formulation of the
proposed Hydrocracker Project and will continue to act as project sponsor
until the new company is formed and equity ownership is finalized.
56.     PERAC acts partly as a holding company for various government inter-
est in refining, chemicals and oil tankers, and also as a planning unit
generating new projects in these sectors which, when ready for implementa-
tion, can be spun off to existing or other companies for execution and opera-
tion. PERAC's staff is relatively small but is well qualified and has con-
siderable experience in the refinery sector. The subsidiary companies are
also staffed with experienced personnel and are efficiently managed. The
group has considerable experience in the development and implementation of
new industrial projects. PERAC owns 16% of the equity in NRL but exercises
control of the company through perpetual proxies from various state-owned
financial institutions which hold 55.6% of the equity. The remaining
shareholders are the Islamic Development Bank (15%) and members of the public
(13.4%). PERAC owns 100% of the equity in National Petrocarbon Ltd. (NPC),
which has an established business in the production and marketing of
specialty oils and asphalts, and which is currently establishing an 8,100
tpy capacity carbon black plant. Another wholly owned subsidiary of PERAC,
ENAR Petrotech Services Ltd. provides consultancy, design and engineering
services to the refining and petrochemical industries. In addition, PERAC
and the Pakistan National Shipping Corporation (PNSC) each own 50% of the
equity in National Tanker Company which owns and operates an oil tanker.
57.     Since PERAC does not operate any productive assets directly, its
income and hence its ability to generate resources internally for investment
in new projects consists of dividends, interest payments and management and



-18-
consultancy fees paid by its subsidiary companies. Revenue increased from
US$1.4 million in 1979/80 to US$2.2 million in 1980/81 as shown in Annex
VIII. NRL is the most important source of revenues to PERAC and contributed
US$1 million in 1979/80 and TJS$1.4 million in 1980/81, or 71% and 63%,
respectively, of total PERAC revenues. In 1980/81, after deducting PERAC's
own expenses, interest payments and taxation, PERAC reported a profit of
US$0.9 million, from which it paid US$0.4 million in dividends on preference
shares.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
58.     The Government requested Bank assistance for the installation of a
hydrocracking facility in July 1981, on the basis of an initial PERAC study
dated December 1980. Further preparation continued throughout 1981, and in
November 1981 PERAC and GOP requested Bank consideration of the proposed
Engineering Project to assist in detailed preparation of the Hydrocracker
Project and to finance energy conservation measures. The proposed Engineer-
ing Project was appraised in May 1982. Negotiations took place in Washington
from November 1 to November 4, 1982; the delegation from Pakistan was headed
by Mr. Kunwar Idris, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Production. No
separate appraisal report has been prepared for the proposed engineering
loan. Supplementary project data are contained in Annex III.
Background and Objectives
59.     PERAC has carried out a number of studies, both in-house and utiliz-
ing qualified international consultants, to identify and evaluate the most
appropriate process scheme for the upgrading of low value fuel oil, produced
at Karachi by both NRL and PRL, to higher value products in order to
alleviate the imbalance between the refinery product mix and demand patterns.
Both PERAC and the consultants identified a hydrocracker scheme as the most
attractive secondary conversion facility under Pakistani conditions, after
reviewing various processing schemes, fluid catalytic cracking and thermal
cracking. This recommendation is consistent with developitents elsewhere and
its appropriateness for the Pakistan situation is confirmed by Bank staff
analysis. The Hydrocracker Project currently being studied by PERAC would
consist of a new self-contained facility located in the Karachi area which
would take atmospheric residue (presently sold as fuel oil after addition of
kerosene as cutter stock) by pipeline from the NRL and PRL refineries and
would have a design throughput capacity of 1.35 million tpy of atmospheric
residue. The atmospheric residue produced by PRL and NRL is suitable for
upgrading whereas much of the fuel oil available on the international market
comprises cracked or processed products that are not suitable for further
upgrading. The facilities would also require 7.65 million standard cubic
feet per day of natural gas (64,000 TOE p.a.) for hydrogen generation
required in the hydrocracker unit. The design output of the Hydrocracker
Project would include 0.74 million tpy of high value distillates and 0.5



million tpy of cracked fuel oil. The product pattern of the tacility is
shown in Annex IX. The major process units required in the proposed instal-
lation are vacuum distillation, visbreaker, hydrocracker, hydrogen unit and
naphtha reformer. Utility systems for treated and cooling water, steam and
power would also be required.
60.     Preliminary estimates indicate an installed cost for the Hydrocracker
Project facilities of about US$340 million (excluding import duties and
taxes), including about US$200 million in direct foreign exchange. Given the
large size of the Hydrocracker Project and because of the need to carry out
basic design before the project scope, capital cost estimate and financing
and implementation arrangements could be finalized, the Government requested
the Bank to provide financing for a separate engineering project to carry out
the preparatory work required. In parallel with this design and engineering
work, arrangements for the implementation, project ownership, sources of
financing and the pricing policy for the Hydrocracker Project will be firmed
up. It is expected that, as a result, overall implementation of the
Hydrocracker Project will be improved both as regards cost and schedule and
that co-financing agreements will be more readily arranged. Although the
Government has expressed interest that the Bank participate in financing the
Hydrocracker Project, the commitment of the Bank, if the proposed Engineering
Project is approved, is only to finance this phase of the work. Bank par-
ticipation in the Hydrocracker Project would be considered at a later
appropriate stage.
61.     Bank support for the proposed project will provide the framework for
a dialogue with the Government on the rationalization of ex-refinery pricing
policies (see paragraph 54 above), inter alia to improve the prospects for
private participation in the Hydrocracker Project, as well as for discussions
on suitable ownership arrangements for the Hydrocracker Project. Since a
timely decision on ownership and financing of the Hydrocracker Project is a
necessary condition for its early implementation, assurances have been
obtained that, in parallel with the above engineering worl-, the Government
shall (i) carry out a study of and prepare proposals with respect to its
pricing policies for the Hydrocracker Project, inter alia, with a view to
encouraging private participation in the financing of the project; and (ii)
furnish such proposals together with a proposed financing plan for the
Hydrocracker Project to the Bank by June 30, 1983, for its review and com-
ments (Section 2.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
62.     In addition to the preparatory and engineering work for the
Hydrocracker Project, the proposed Engineering Project would support Govern-
ment objectives for introducing energy conservation measures in industry.
This component will: (a) substantially strengthen ENAR Petrotech-s
capability in carrying out energy audits and conservation studies so that
ENAR can perform the functions of an industrial energy conservation center;
and (b) execute an energy audit and energy conservation measures at the NRL
Refinery.



-20-
Project Description
63.     Refinery Engineering Component.  This component would allow PERAC to
proceed with the basic design and engineering work necessary to fully define
the scope of the Hydrocracker Project, to firm up the cost estimates and
implementation arrangements and to review ownership, pricing policy and
financing arrangements. The basic design and engineering work will include:
(a) licensing agreements for the provision of technical know-how required
during the Engineering Project for the basic design of the critical process
units (hydrocracker, visbreaker, reformer and hydrogen unit); (b) preparation
by consultants of the engineering design specification package including
process design, equipment and material specifications, layout drawings and
detailed engineering of time-critical items; (c) preparation of cost
estimates and financing requirements; (d) prequalification and preparation of
bidding documents for the selection of engineering firms and contractors for
the implementation of the Hydrocracker Project; and (e) site topographic and
soil surveys.
64.     Energy Conservation Component:  ENAR Petrotech.  ENAR Petrotech, a
PERAC subsidiary established to provide engineering consultancy services to
PERAC and its subsidiary companies and to outside organizations, has 60
professional staff organized into three operating units: (a) a Technical
Advisory Unit responsible for feasibility studies and process design, (b) a
Projects Unit dealing in all aspects of project implementation, and (c) an
Energy Unit which carries out studies in the energy sector, particularly
regarding forecasts and optimization. The Energy Unit has recently started
to carry out energy audits and conservation studies. As its work in energy
conservation will increase substantially, ENAR is proposing to form a
separate Energy Conservation Unit to concentrate exclusively on this work.
Under the proposed project, ENAR will (i) establish the Energy Conservation
Unit to conduct audits and conservation studies in selected industries desig-
nated by the Ministry of Production or other agencies, (ii) obtain specialist
expatriate assistance to train the unit's staff in energy audit techniques
and methodologies, and (iii) acquire instrumentation and equipment needed for
such audits, including computer software for energy study-related analysis.
In addition, ENAR will strengthen its engineering capabilities through
specialist expatriate assistance to review and improve existing engineering
procedures and practices so that ENAR is better equipped for participation in
the implementation of the Hydrocracker Project.
65.     Energy Conservation Component:  NRL Refinery.  This component
includes (a) an energy audit and study of the existing NRL facilities to
identify improvements in operating practices and economically attractive
investments to decrease energy consumption; (b) monitoring instrumentation
required both for the energy audit and for day-to-day control of energy use;
and (c) economically justified minor energy conservation investments already



-21-
idLentified by NRL to improve fired heater efficiencies and to decrease
evaporation losses from crude oil storage tanks.
Project Implementation
66.     PERAC has completed, in consultation with the Bank, the initial steps
fcor the evaluation and selection of process licensors and consultants for the
basic design and engineering work. The major process licensors will be
selected prior to issuing bids for the design and engineering work. The
final licensing agreements and the award of the consultant contract are
scheduled for December 1982. The work is expected to be completed by Decem-
ber 1983 together with the completion of the bidding docurients for the
detailed engineering, procurement and construction package for the
Hydrocracker Project. Completion of these activities by the end of 1983
would allow the main Hydrocracker Project to be initiated early in 1984 and
completed about 40 months later in the second quarter of 1987. PERAC will
carry out site acquisition and investigations and soil surveys concurrently
with the basic design and engineering work. The draft terms of reference and
scope of the engineering work and the evaluation criteria for selection of
consultants have been reviewed by the Bank and agreed witlh PERAC. PERAC has
designated an experienced project implementation group for the project which
will also make use of the considerable expertise available in both ENAR and
NRL.
Project Cost and Financing
67.     The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$15.8 mil-
lion of which US$11.8 million, or 75%, represents foreign exchange. The
proposed US$12 million Bank loan would cover the estimated foreign exchange
component, including the capitalized front-end fee. Detailed cost estimates
are shown in the Loan and Project summary. Major project foreign exchange
costs are for process licenses (US$2.1 million), engineering design
specification package (US$6.5 million), and US$0.4 million for consulting and
technical services, based on US$10,000 per man month inclusive of travel and
subsistance, which is considered reasonable. The balance of US$1.3 million
in foreign exchange would be for energy conservation instrumentation and
equipment. Project costs are based on recent cost data supplied by process
licensors and engineering companies. Physical contingencies of 10% have been
included except for the process licenses for which firm scope of supply and
price data are available. Price contingencies are based on an international
annual price escalation rate of 8%.
68.     PERAC would onlend US$0.4 million of the Bank loan to ENAR and US$1.4
million to NRL on terms satisfactory to the Bank; execution of satisfactory
sub-loan agreements between PERAC and ENAR and PERAC and ITRL, respectively,
would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The companies would finance their own share of local costs.



-22-
Procurement and Disbursement
69.     The qualifications, experience, selection and contractual terms and
conditions for the employment of specialized consultants and engineering
firms required for the proposed project will be in accordance with Bank
Guidelines (section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The major process
licensors (hydrocracker, visbreaker and naphtha reformer) and the engineering
consultants will be selected after an evaluation, using criteria agreed upon
with the Bank, of the proposals from qualified companies that have adequate
experience. For the energy conservation components, contracts for items to
be procured from the proceeds of the Bank loan will be awarded in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines for procurement; international competitive bidding
will be used for equipment and material purchases, except for US$0.5 million
of proprietary items, including equipment costing US$50,000 or less, which
may be procured through direct negotiations with suppliers or limited inter-
national tendering. For purposes of bid evaluation, local suppliers will
receive a preference of 15% or the customs duty, whichever is lower. Local
goods and services not financed by the Bank will be procured using the normal
commercial practices of the PERAC Group which are satisfactory. To avoid
delays in project implementation, retroactive financing of US$1.2 million is
recommended for payments made after October 1, 1982, for down payments on
process licenses and initial payments to the selected engineering company.
70.     Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan will be made for the
front-end fee and against 100% of foreign expenditures for (a) payments for
license fee ; (b) the engineering cost for the basic design and engineering
package; (c) consulting and technical services to PERAC, NRL and ENAR; and
(d) imported equipment required for energy monitoring and conservation at NRL
and ENAR. For locally manufactured equipment, disbursements will be made
against 100% of the ex-factory cost. Disbursement of the Bank loan is
expected to be completed by June 1985.
Benefits and Risks
71.     The proposed project will complete all preparatory work for the
subsequent proposed Hydrocracker Project, the principal purpose of which
would be to upgrade low value fuel oil into higher value distillates that are
in deficit supply within Pakistan. Initial analysis of the Hydrocracker
Project shows that it will be financially and economically attractive with an
economic rate of return of about 30%, and will generate considerable savings
in Pakistan's petroleum product import bill estimated at US$150 million p.a.
(January 1982 prices).
72.     The engineering work to be carried out under the proposed project
will firm up project scope, detailed capital costs, financing requirements
and project schedule so that a firm financing plan and implementation arran-
gements can be made for the Hydrocracker Project. It is expected that, by
these means, private capital can be attracted to the Hydrocracker Project,



-23-
overall project implementation can be substantially improved, and cost over-
runs minimized. The energy conservation component of the proposed project
will develop the institutional capability within Pakistan to implement
industrial energy conservation measures, for which substantial scope appears
to exists, and commence implementation of such measures at NRL.
73.     The proposed project will support the implementation of the Govern-
ment s strategy in the energy sector to give increased emphasis to energy
conservation, to strengthen pricing policies and to attract private sector
participation. Under the project, as well as in connection with the on-going
Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit, the Bank will continue discussions
with the Government on overall energy prices, in particular the structure of
crude and petroleum products prices at the well-head, ex-refinery and con-
sumer levels.
74.     The engineering studies and energy efficiency components involve no
special risks. Studies indicate that the Hydrocracker Project is economi-
cally very attractive; the risk of the Hydrocracker Project not being imple-
mented is negligible.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the State Petroleum
Refining and Petrochemical Corporation Ltd., the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Bank and the Recommendation
of' the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
76.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



-24-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 19, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-25-
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAXISgTMriCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHZZT
REFERENCE GRUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGE8
AREA (TOUSAND  SQ.PAISAN                                                              -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATZ)-
TOL             03  9                                    MOST RECENT            LOW INCO-ME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      249.9               1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIDATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                    70.0        130.0      300.0               261.4                     890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       132.4        190.6      209.2               448.7                     701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45851.0        60449.0   82153.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1           24.9       28.2                17.3                      32.4
POPULATrON PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        134.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          308.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RM.                         57.0         75.2       99.2               158.1                     255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    200.4          248.9     316.9                355.9                    1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.5         46.3       46.5                36.8                      39.9
15-64 YRS.                           51.8         50.5       50.7                59.7                      56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.4          3.2        2.8                 3.5                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.3          2.8        3.1                 2.0                       2.3
URBAN                                4.6          4.0        4.3                 3.3                       3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       51.3         47.4       43.6                29.3                      31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.3         19.9       16.0                11.0                       9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.7          3.5        3.0                 2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       1908.1    2085.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..        6.o7               19.3                      36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            89.0        102.0     101.0                108.1                     115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     87.8         97.1       98.8/d              97.3                     106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            58.1         59.8       62.87d              56.9                      54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         23.3         20.1       19.97a              20.0                      13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       25.4         21.5       17.8                10.9                       6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.3           46.2       49.8                57.8                      59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            161.5        143.0      125.5                89.1                      63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         21.0      29.0                 32.9                      32.0
URBAN                                 ..         77.0       60.0                70.7                      51.9
RURAL                                 ..          4.0       17.0                22.2                      20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          3.0        6.0                18.1                      37.7
URBAN                                 ..         12.0       21.0                72.7                      65.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 4.7                      24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            5396.8       4299.1/f  3775.1/e,f           3297.8                    8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    16961.8        13306.07f 10030.37/             4929.3                    4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1794.5       1860.1    1903.4/e f           1100.4                    1047.5
URBAN                              506.8        648.1      712.9e              301.3                     651.6
RURAL                                 ..      12478.5   11870.1e.             5815.7                    2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..         ..                   ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.4          5.3
URBAN                                5.6          5.5
RURAL                                5.4          5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                3.1          2.8         .
URBAN                                3.1          2.7         *
RURAL                                3.1          2.87j       .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..         17.9          ..
URBAN                                 * -        54.4/        *
RURAL                                 ..          4. 9/       ....



-26-
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
FAKISTAN - SRCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVl  AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0      56.0                 97.4                 96.2
MALE                  46.0         62.0       81.0               101.0                 99.8
FEMALE                13.0         24.0       31.0                87.8                 92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0      16.0                 53.0                 37.6
MALE                  18.0         22.0       24.0                63.8                 41.1
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0        8.0                41.3                 34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.5        1.4                 1.7                 20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.6         41.5      40.1                 37.7                 35.5
SECONDARY                           24.0         19.8      18.7                 20.2                 25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0/h       20.7/i    24.0                 52.1                 73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.5          2.6       2.8/c                1.5                  9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         17.1      65.8                 35.4                116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          1.6       9.4                  3.2                 37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   13.2           ..       13.7                16.4                 53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3.0/j      2.4                 3.6                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.7        17364.1   22717.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3      10.2                 29.5                 33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         59.0      57.0                 70.0                 52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0         19.0      20.0                 15.0                 17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7       27.7                40.0                 38.5
MALE                                  55.2         50.4       47.2                51.8                 50.5
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5        5.9                23.8                 26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.0                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/k         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.37ik        41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.47k          8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57k         20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         68.0/i   176.0                133.8                194.7
RURAL                                 ..         47.07?i  122.0                111.5                155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USA PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         34.0/i    88.0                   ..                178.2
RURAL                                 ..         22.073?    58.0                  ..                164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW A3SOLUTE
POVERTY INZCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 . .        42.0/i    32.0                 43.8                 24.4
RURAL                                 ..         43.0/i    29.0                 51.7                 41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1973;
/h 1962; /i 1972; /j 1968; /k 1964.
May, 1982



-27-                                                                             ANNEX I
OOPtmi7tcul  or JaCkAL ZO0hAg00
U,..;s dlthacab the      o    drcttrt oucS.rtrsllc JuSde  its                        ..et   .ihttoa   n   .el....e it shu I loe r rateD  LI hthey so  cot he tote-
tosruaoellcaoeperablo tenteso as she tak At -oncdce   o ntin   adcacro   odb  differen ICntis  aoletotfsda,bs                         an nn
Codas, useul cadatobe-od-r  of pogotods, ictaoetro-rde. aod nh-re ocLA. Jr.070,ee)a  dlf.tnMecAetsonMnotd
Ofoth refar'eu  erouc  are71  the ea-  -onty ;r-n  of the  -- e      -"etconr  sAd (2)A      SCnota  gno  .tar  osno  tAgho   or    ooetentetoss  to
ofoh  tbec  ouo&     lonop   ot   'Kitah I---usoil0  -oorcs  rc  oper  botddic I.o-  loath AfricLa endttdA. ta.ct"  IAscose  h_c__  f  inoo
e   Ifa-ulcl. odttC io.I theW.- r        Seoee.tno   uto the   -Sra., rA, plorelerdoy neihtd trinelst  .. wan  tsr eho doddotor ed ehn  Iltylhs
sejoity of Uscoort  to o grou  hasd..          o  that toio r   Steno rh. -acrag  of otooo  oso   hs oiaosbod.rteoolhto fdt
Oucos.peune   era  e  kAocte  p000d   or to lieM .....;17 dote,                hhiiatn  eaee             t      ICpttale ore  eettoheo-o I tosotiytoflbd.
AW  'q. - J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bys etco hentn  eol.fwt tntf~ttnlolceo
lO   a   diA 651-.-- allyto  topics.b secftes I tronla soke.pices,97 net-,           bioliats erno tnnlod   Octal toepIns h-rtont  too--  hIT C.b
doon   ndcncdeeluuSI es  ofsdcey ciltotra    cr oletdn
PC POtATIOt dill OffAL tOATItlICSt'.. P-....-CA
swab  cMIn-oice;1960, 1970, so                       AM6119e9.-thehusndto-oeto   utoa
Pnoctotinn tooter 0       d000- A,lufrscc  pcclclnpt Isoto  ar base,d ngo It     o   yproepryn  oalctt  n  oa  uuottnotta
boo,..Isl  lfopnaoootlono    79  or.tepts                                             nne  co    ddelnett ..IotItItyN    ltott-   Ceaton  it tnot
mot  frtnnlnycreat  hn  nnsleea  aulo  ecoodno  ttl  t-oc An oce   oltfaepctny
bortllloyaocordtoo~~~~~" ~ totcoolar   ndyarOolyyenkgyatcoce
lotanunr FisL tt,nn oee"'Le IeCtnoootsc*cnnr   fecato                        iiT
end tsntltcyocend  far polettot curceos.dAicted1  tntcttse                            f dittosRA  WIC                     b
biatuocory ooocitttoo - It t otsoau,nory carulotlan there to en grnosh otno-s  Pcteoro school - tooal, selo cod ftsato-inoso nctou, enco sod toed.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AhC-h- C.-
the itah cite  e equA  oo tOn Aset.yo, anDIoteeteroooco                           toleto   i  ose               IC rar  oo  optnnso   foeotc
soc   nrtn .lte  oetivdcLttft  otItyrce   eltec                                     rotyoeoleo   eultco:nrolytpudentlcaatd6i
rho r2n.ploeMn. selo  niHe  rSnuodo  rts  dis  scab. .eer..ncoo  tco  IfdMCtr Aa   tfcc  lttsc  yfsyeeutc    u
o     t.nntpeccioltacl.Toetioayyplotbeoya                                       ceoiernhutsoimucra  oclon   c   oneAo   ono
sohisotod  o cba hees ti tho cnltctodnhoetosrtesAo   fthel caueinetn   o    utl                  ee  cc otn   h  clatteodlor
Pe At. M0   tld-ceer" -tcsto  pe  qaekletc(t  onts  of                          ccctoo sc llosn toecan et standCyl-tootol  htiu
nou  ye    9f.17  tdio  deCho.        Icn...                                               scbdoc-  uauotiol,cc  tte -cce  shi.h notr iltn-
tilu t 91   91  n   99oto                                                         td-noncti -           ro-eany ec      2 cncrZ  etlIc,to,t'aedt
teuon  let  150,nt  19f  uct                                               Aultilten 0crIrocoyPA.tn,annocce  obe  n atoendo-no
tnpcetto  160.197, sa 161  ooc                          CIAlittoy orAtntro
ttlcy  one; uusiy One-esooo2ooe  sodtn  to-  1pu56 o.Ity , and190.             000cunyoilcttrdtoctt
ofhct-ota Csh    e   uaroolo   f slolfoiyceoo bccsnen,                            tonrosoPohldo cn  nhocd-rcuatoo -Cnlud-   clYno-d Ta t ICeoot
tl n-ldocn   otwA -c6yu             d                                              nlthn  f  eCht.nrl o eof csoeyc . sitos0yrdot
t.l 60 thtuOh                                                                         ccd ha 'dailyt  If. t  In onyocr ci lcon Onr ntss0 dent
no cc yoOsodor p000 hoot L. CadtdioocTr. Ytltet  anod  le. parcoo-               no  wae- ct
Aloeos  efl -caeo)ohlot ort odhls eec coteinnutadao..Isafcefyst en
nocecnnnludal.  oococatcyroountoo o  sootIcuor  to0 bho., on. ).        AcIt PerotC.d.                                              LCit
Iaolooerpsce  poc  Odhe;16-i,17M               o 0000adate,Int,l                         EChrfrn noous           h.ncotal   octo   ctnOs  tldop
Irt opia oool ofcolalee(poetn  ciotoiaesooo  - aretedfyc                      ocod frnr  en  a.touacrr  ic  tclodna  cuottns-,oudots,mo.
pM dY. dootebi 970      tscspts  uetcoodtho,ddoc  lo                                  oncrsols   96,1PIP              >0  oe
hocosbold Iool; 1961-0, lope oAf9900 Into                                 160, t)70 en  IbtaIo-h.
ne   dcl  ftoe   e   e.ntopt oP-Puod to-doffiend e alcos.  to-                   .n.....    toonnpnrd00tctl slt  od  toloiccnfatsa
pela  crfeto  ofohon  100t0  Alaul -h neenthcoCctn.  Ifhosonnod-                oto Aeto  oeeootootoo  h                   rcnu ion  cod  AMunenon
1-d e.00  1unoty; Itil-h,  atf c 1977  uo                                             otcntslknrnc
01, fo an960o eu7d pulse  LI8 oAte- yt   s;16-1   90 ot11   ao                clyoitfnnc1.iCoI
ondlon                                                                          00001ff o7A0--0IhZ11lit..ca
sbit:-90,  1970, andlon  das                                                    y   ludt  itOonl9t   ectoltontn
boo o ytnco (nol, e ISo,od c Io  Ith coocal  0050t  cd                          elclhn
ntooclecoo  col 01  thooIm..    Ithehco f -,c woboco of th  hoseod                  t ruro- -i. cer.d   ofr7(c     (no   o   url  h   c
doyen    hr  to- op-l& Ag *   5    Y.cuoraor IamufOt ey  o  oah'g hey-n0
end ecoco-nooty ho osnro-hcooo oyooooo no ma coo intintpp-rAt n. end-st                                                el
Ph -      tII a  - oulnonOulo  i - tuoho  cc rro,tn  cAut                                                        Ancooedooe  inIos
P             Aiti . lN Mi7yh    Inea cbo  oCnooit  iol                                                              luoucnodcoYti   o  n)Olo   ocn
rotuetto tonouyo,oe ocoo- tcutenon Oofdr  hy  eaha  nO  yoncouc                                                         S.M IPStO            I
nao .nCeol  bAodtt  o dunooo, soetoon  00000  anouiut cuoceoAM on
ourto.d IuCtuacuoo.                                                                                                                          d -1    --



-28-
68E  I
ZCONOI/IC DEVIWPOP DATA
GROSS lUIONAL PRODIJCT in 1980/8t                                                                                                AIAL RA   OP GROWTH   . constant  rice.)
US$ billion        S                                                                1969/70-1974/75       1975/76-1980/81       1980/81
GNP at Market Prices                         29.99         100.0                                                                    3.5                   6.3               6.2
Gross Dovs,tic Investnent                     4.87          16.2                                                                  -5.5                    5.4               4.4
Gro.. National Saving                         3.94          13.1                                                                  -2.1                   8.2               10.3
Current Accotmt BalasIc                     -0.95            -
Resource Gap                                -2.93           -9.8                                                                    6.7                  15.1             -29.4
OUITP, LA80R FORCZ AN;D POOUCTIVTY IN 1979/801&
Value Added             Labor Force       V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    2        Itillion    %        US5  million    2
Agriculture                     7,538          30       13.2       54          5J1           56
Industry                       6,490           26       465        18       1,442           141
Services                      11,127           44        6.9       28        1,613          158
7otal/Average               25,155          100      24.6      100        1,023           100
GOVEBNM NT PLIWICE
General Gvrnrmnt                                              Central Governmrnt
(! billion)               X of CDP                       (Rs billion)                X of GDP
1980181           1980/81      1976/77-1980/81            1980/81           1980/81       1976/77-1980/81
rurreot  "ereipts                   46.8              16.9             16.2                   36.1               13.0            12.4
Curtent Eapenditure.                36.8               13.3            14.0                   28.6               10.3            10.5
Current Surplu"/Deficit            100.0                3.6             2.2                    7.5                2.7             1.9
Capital Expenditures                25.0                9.0             9.7                   21.5                7.8             7.3
E.terz.l Assistance (neC)            5.7                2.0             3.0                    5.7                2.0             3.0
3MO0EX, C8iX 8340 PRICES
1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80       1980/1Ab
Money and Quasi Mroney                        33.1          41.6         51.7          63.7         76.5         90.7         104.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)            17.7          22.9         29.5         34.3          43.1         48.1          53.8
Sank Credit to Private Sector (groe.)         19.7          23.1         30.1         35.7          42.7         50.6          58.7
loney end Quasi Money as 2 GDP                31.6          34.3         38.1          40.5         42.8         42.7          41.7
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70 - 100)    211.3             229.4        255.3        271.4         239.7        316.7         358.8
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                         23.6           8.6         11.3           6.3          6.7          9.3          13.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)            21.2          29.4         28.8         16.6          25.6         11.6          11.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)         26.3          17.3         30.3         19.6          19.6         18.5          16.0
as  Labor force data are official figures of the Hinistry of Pinance and Planning.  Serious underenumeretion  may exist. espriily of .oonnn.
4b ProvisIonal.
Not applicable.
Fehr.ary 1982



-29-
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ nillion)                         MERChANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGINC 1977/78-1980181)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81 /a                                       USS million          X
Exports of Goods, NFS              1,404    1,651    2,107    2,955    3,450                Raw Cotton                      259.4            8.5
Imports of Goods, NFS              2,877    3,297    4,485    5,709    6,385                Cotton Yarn                     179.3           9.8
Cotton Cloth                    219.2          12.4
Resource! Gap (deficit - -)       -1,473   -1,646   -2,378   -2,754   -2,935                Rice                            393.2          19.6
All Other Commodities         1,034.6          49.7
Interest: Payments                  -172      -183      -261      -285      -322              Total                       2,085.7         100.0
Workers' Remittances                  578    1,166    1,395    1,748    2,117
Other Fakctor Payments (net)           15        62      134        151      193                     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net Transfers                          ..        ..        ..
US$ million
Balance on Current Account        -1,052      -601   -1,110   -1,140        -947
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed          8,813.9
Direct Foreign Investment              ..        ..       ..         ..       ..            Non-guaranteed Private Debt if                ..
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                      961       841       813    1,134    1,067                Total Outstanding and Disbursed          8,813.9
Amortization                      -175      -122      -235      -310      -358
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980/81 /
Sub-Tatal                          786       719       578       824       709
Transactions with IMF/b                44        41      -14         78      331                                                      Percentage
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed             9.5
Other Items n.e.i. /c                  24       163      238       600       217           Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (-)             198      -322       308      -362      -310              Total                                       9.5
Gross Reserves (year end)/d           372      694       386       748    1,058             IBRD/IDA LENDING (SEPTEMBER 1981) (US$ million)
Net Reserves (year end)/e           -146        150      -92        340      330                                                   IBRD    IDA
Official Gold (year end
million ounces)                    1.6       1.7       1.8       1.8       1.8           Outstanding and Disbursed              312.2   825.6
Undiabursed                             36.5   549.9
Outstanding, Including Vndisbursed 348.7 1,375.5
F%,el and Related Materials
Petroleum Imports                    413       497       530    1,079    1,535
Petroleum Exports                     27        63        61        178      169
Rate of Excharnge
Through May 11, 1972    May 11, 1972-Feb. 15, 1973    Feb. 15, 1973-Jan. 8, 1982   Jan. 8, 1982 /h   Jan. 1-Aug. 31, 1982 Average
US$ - Rs 4.7619                US$ - Rs 11.00                    US$  Rs 9.90              US$ - Rs 10.1             US$ - Rs 11.61
Rs  - US$0.2100                Rs  - US$0.0909                   Rs  - US$0.1010           Rs  - US$0.099            Rs  - 0.086
/a  Government estimate.
lb Including Trust Fund.
7i Including net short-term borrowing and errors and omissions.
Id Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
7e  Excluding use of IMF credit.
If Private debt is negligible.
ig Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and worker's remittances;
nct including short-term or IMF changes.
/h Since January 8, 1982, value of rupee is being managed with reference to a
weighted basket of currencies.
Ncot available.
November 1982



-30-
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                     (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                  Undis-
Number      Year    Purpose                                Bank   TW       IDA    bursed
Eighty-four loans and credits fully disbursed /a         635.8            720.7/e
1107       1975   Fourth Sui Northern Gas                 53.0             --      0.7
1208T     1976   Power (Second WAPDA)                     --    32.0       --       1.6
620        1976   Seed Project                            --               23.0    6.5
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply                               26.6    4.6
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)        --               14.0    6.7
1366T     1977   Livestock Development (Punjab)           --    10.0       --      9.3
1372)     1977   Railways                                 35.0             --       1.0
684 )      1977   Railways                                 --              25.0    1.1
678       1977   Third Education                          --               15.0    7.0
751       1977   Hill Farming Development                 --                3.0    1.6
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation          --               70.0   68.8
755        1978   Hazara Forestry Pre-investment          --                1.7    1.4
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.               --               12.5    7.2
846        1978   Fauji Fertilizer                         --              55.0    3.4
867        1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development               --              30.0    0.9
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                  60.0   58.5
892        1979   Primary Education                       --               10.0    8.3
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension             --                9.0    9.0
957        1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP)         --               30.0   10.8
968        1980   Power (Third WAPDA)                      --              45.0   36.6
974        1980   Third Highway                           --               50.0   39.7
1019      1980   Development Finance (PICIC XI)           --               40.0   16.9
1109/d    1981   Vocational Training                      --               25.0   24.8
1113/d    1981   Small Industries                         --               30.0   29.9
11577d    1981   Grain Storage                            --               32.0   32.0
1158/d    1981   Agricultural Research                    -                24.0   24.0
1163/d    1981   On-Farm Water Management                 --               41.0   38.8
11867_    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)         --               30.0   30.0
2122       1982   Telecommunication IV                    40.0             --      40.0
2166       1982   Structural Adjustment                    60.0            --      59.1
2172/f    1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                 --      38.5
1239/b /d 1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                   40.0   40.0
1243/b /d 1982   Baluchistan 21inor Irrig. & Agr.         --               14.0   14.0
12557W    1982   Structural Adjustment Credit             --               80.0   80.0
1256/d    1982   Technical Assistance Credit (SAL)    --                    7.0    7.0
12787d    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                  _               50.0   50.0
Total                                                    862.3  42.0  1,613.5  809.7
of which has been repaid                               447.3   --        30.5
Total now outstanding                                     414.9  42.0  1,583.0
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                            --      --          --
Total now held by Bank and IDA7T-                         414.9  7T2T.  1,583.0
Total undisbursed                                         139.3  10.9    659.5  809.7
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b  Not yet effective.
7c  Prior to exchange adjustment.
7W  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The
principal is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation.
Undisbursed amounts are computed at the August 31, 1982, rate of 1.07234.
/e  By using the rate at August 31, 1982, 1.07234, $41 million was disbursed
under Credit 1066-PAK, now fully disbursed. This amount is shown as
current principal for 1066-PAK.
/f  Effective on October 21, 1982.



-31-
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel          0.63      --        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries   Textiles                0.75      --        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                5.25    0.42        5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development            --      0.52       0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles              1.84    0.11        1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products       19.35    0.84       20.19
1980
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                 5.38    2.02        7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92        3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper        5.60    0.63        6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food         2.40    0.38        2.78
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals and          29.00    1.82       30.82
Ltd. and Attock       Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-       1.78      --        1.78
lene bags
1980     Premier Board          Particle Board        2.70      --        2.70
Mills Ltd.
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17        3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                3.60      --        3.60
Total Gross Commitments                     82.43    9.83      92.26
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                48.85    1.02      49.87
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           33.58    8.81      42.39
Undisbursed (including participants)        17.36    0.35      17.71



-32-
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10,
1978; Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works which, together with work in the downstream channel, were completed in
June 1980. Similar protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool was
completed in 1982. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the dam have
been met. Power generation by the first four units began in 1977.
Construction of a second power plant with four units is in progress. All
Credit proceeds have been disbursed; the Bank continues to administer the
Tarbela Development Fund.
Loan No. 1107          Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of May 15,
1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
This project has been completed.
Loan No. 1208-T        Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
All major works have been completed. One outstanding retention
payment for about US$650,000 is expected to be disbursed shortly.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-
Credit No. 620         Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Delays have continued to be experienced in the construction and
equipping of processing plants in Punjab, due mainly to disputes with civil
works contractors and structural defects in the buildings. The plant in Sind
has been completed. Field activities have made good progress.
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All major works have been contracted but construction delays have
continued and will probably cause a further delay in project completion.
Detailed action plans to improve operational and financial performance have
recently been agreed.
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22,
1976; Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date:
July 31, 1984
Overall progress is about three years behind schedule due to initial
delays in employing consultants, procurement problems and difficulties in
installing the subsurface collector drains. Canal remodeling, surveys and
extension services are proceeding satisfactorily. Additional equipment is
being procured to improve the rate of construction.
Loan No. 1366-T        Punjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Date:
August 3, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The reformulated project has been approved by the Executive Directors
and GOP and GOPun have signed the legal documents. The contract for the
rehabilitation of the Lahore Milk Plant (LMP) has been let and preparatory
work is under way. An outstanding issue is the appointnent of three
consultants to strengthen LMP management.
Loan No. 1372          Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and                 Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684         Closing Date:  Decemer 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The telecommunications and
signaling scheme is making good progress and the complete network is expected
to be commissioned before mid-1983. Procurement has been completed and the
total proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.



-34-
Credit No. 678         Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is generally making good progress. Curriculum
improvements have been satisfactorily carried out. Nearly all civil works
contracts have been completed except at nuetta and Rahim Yar Khan where
construction of the Agricultural Training Institutes has been delayed for
about one year due to site problems. At Sind Agricultural University
construction is also behind by one year due to initial delays in appointment
of project implementation staff.
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff shortages and lack of a decision on upgrading field assistants
have caused implementation problems. Nevertheless, the vegetable seed, maize
production, service laboratory, training and apple production components are
proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule,
significant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Progress has been made
in awarding the first civil works contracts and obtaining necessary
equipment, vehicles and materials.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project activities.
The Guzara socio-economic study, the chir pine forest inventory and the
pulping tests for chir pine have been completed. However, on the basis of a
forest resource assessment study, the immediate developnent of an
economically sized pulp mill had to be ruled out; the scope of the
feasibility study will therefore be broadened to include a range of
development options. Terms of reference are now being prepared and field
work on the next phase of the study will start in the Spring of 1983.



-35-
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:
US$ 12.5 Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective
Date:  September 12, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite some progress in staff
recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction work.
Implementation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages continue
to be weak. Low salaries for village level staff and delays in recruiting
consultants remain problems.
Credit No. 846         Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The plant is in operation. Final disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 1982.
Credit No. 867         Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Two new producing oil wells in the Toot field have recently been
completed despite very difficult drilling problems but well-drilling and
management problems persist. Project implementation is about 15 months behind
schedule. The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1981, has been extented
to March 31, 1983, to allow completion of the original 8-well drilling
program.
Credit No. 877         Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP)
Mardan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979;
Effective Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project has been reduced in scope and initial budgetary and other
problems have been resolved. CIDA (the project co-financier) is assisting
W4APDA in scheduling implementation activities as well as in preparing
subsurface drainage design and specifications. Although about two years
behind schedule, work is accelerating on the preparation of the final designs
and tender documents for the restructured project. Some contracts have been
awarded.



-36-
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is progressing steadily. Nearly all of the project
inputs including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training have
been provided. The evaluation program has been redesigned and a comprehensive
proposal for the improvement of primary education is expected to be completed
by June 1983.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979;
Effective Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Critical staff has been recruited and project iTIplementation has
started, although well behind schedule. Implementation of the T&V system and
research-extension linkages remain weak. Recruitment of consultants has been
delayed.
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the agricultural credit component has been
satisfactory.  The agricultural engineering training component in NWFP is 50%
completed; implementation in Punjab is about to begin. Funds for ADBP onlend-
ing are about 70% disbursed and will be fully disbursed by June 30, 1983.
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement schedules and construction
targets for substations and transmission lines are generally being met.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion, one
has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and re-awarded,
and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts. Discussions
are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of technical
assistance to two provincial governments to improve road maintenance.



-37-
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
About US$35 million had been authorized for 28 projects and US$23
million had been disbursed by September 30, 1982. PICIC's recovery program
is on target.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7
Million Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24,
1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project has made progress in many areas, although there has
been slow progress in the establishment of In-plant Training Advisory
Services in the provinces and in the appointment of staff for the Provincial
Training Boards and the National Training Development Institute. The
Government has agreed to a new timetable for appointing staff and development
of a staff training and work program for these institutions.
Credit No. 1113        Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective Date:
October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
About $750,000 had been committed by July 1982. Selection of
consultants has been completed for the service centers and for the expert
promotion component activities; building construction and procurement of
machinery and equipment are in progress.
Credit No. 1157        Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Million
equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date:
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Construction of the storage facilities is progressing satisfactorily
although there have been delays in hiring of consultants and staff, and in
making training arrangements.
Credit No. 1158        Agricultural Research:  SDR 33.4 IMillion Credit
(US$24 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
Most of the staff required to operate the project have been recruited
and the procedures to appoint a consultancy firm to provide technical
assistance are well advanced. Preliminary selections have been made for the
first 40 overseas training fellowships. Architects have been appointed,
designs for civil works completed and construction commenced at the National
Agricultural Research Center.



-38-
credit No. 1163        On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This Credit was declared etfective on March 30, 1982.
Credit No. 1186         Second Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million
equivalent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date:
May 19, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on June 14, 1982.
Loan No. 2122          Fourth Telecommunications:  US$40 Million Loan of
April 13, 1982; Effective Date: June 9, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Loan was declared ettective on June 9, 1982.
Loan No. 2166           Structural Adjustment:  US$60 Million Loan of
June 23, 1982; Effective Date: September 9, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This Loan was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Loan No. 2172          Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation:  US$38.5 Million
Loan of June 23, 1982; Effective Date: October 21,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on October 21, 1982.
Credit No. 1239        Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation:  SDR 33.5 Million
Credit (US$40 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: December 1, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1243         Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural
Development Project: SDR 12.5 Million Credit
(US$14 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: January 5, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
This Credit is no yet effective.



-39-
Credit No. 1255         Structural Adjustment:  SDR 71.9 Million Credit
(US$80 Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982;
Effective Date: September 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This Credit was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Credit No. 1256        Technical Assistance:  SDR 6.3 Million Credit (US$7
Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effective Date:
September 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Credit No. 1278        Railways XI:  SDR 44.3 Million Credit (US$50 Million
equivalent) of July 13, 1982; Effective Date:
September 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on September 13, 1982.



-40-
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:        Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:
approximately two years.
(b) Agency which prepared the project
State Petroleum Refinery and Petrochemical Corporation
Ltd. (PERAC)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and
date of first Bank mission to consider the
project:
early 1981 and July 1981.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
May 8, 1982.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
November 4, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
March 31, 1982
Section II:       Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(i) the Government shall submit proposals with respect to its
pricing policies for the Hydrocracker Project, together
with a proposed financing plan for the project, to the
Bank by June 30, 1983, for its review and comments
(para. 61).
(ii) the execution of sub-loan agreements between PERAC
and ENAR and PERAC and NRL would be a special condition
of effectiveness (para. 68).



-41-
Annex IV
PAKISTAN- REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PAKISTAN-COMMERCIAL ENERGY SUPPLY AND CONSUMPTION
Supply by Source (%)                         Consumption by Sector (%)
1971/72      1980/81                      1971/72    1980/81
Oil          45.0          36.6       Industry           36.3       31.5
Gas          36.3          41.7       Transport          16.4       20.9
Hydro         9.3          15.9       Power              15.7-       16.6
Coal          9.0           5.3       Residential         8.8       12.2
Nuclear       0.3           0.2       Agriculture         7.6        5.3
L.P.G.        0.1           0.3       Fertilizer (exc.
feedstock)          2.6        4.1
100.0        100.0       Commercial          2.0        3.2
-  -       Government and
other            10.6        6.2
100.0      100.0
Source:  Directorate General of Energy Resources (DGER), MPNR.



-42-
Annex V
PAKISTAN - REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PAKISTAN - HISTORICAL CONSUMPTION FOR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS a/
('000 metric tons)
Average
1972   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   Annual
% Change
High Octane Blending
Component (HOBC)      53     74      84    101    115    116    115       9.0
Gasoline Regular      261    278    290    344    391    426    474        6.9
High Speed l)4pel    827  1,197  1,239  1,349  1,579  1,775  1,966    10.0
Aviation Fuel         189    240    260    290    335    346    316        5.9
Kerosene              422    516    593    646    694    637    529        2.5
Light Diesel Oil      297    268    261    286    246    263    192    -5.0
Furnace Oil           734    668    660    584    532    588    729    -0.1
Total        2,783  3,241  3,387  3,600  3,892  4,151  4,321         5.0
=                     =      =~         ~~~~~~~= _=
Source: DGER.
a/ Excludes bunkering sales to foreign airlines and ships, data for which
are not available for earlier years. Bunkering sales data for 1981
are presented in Annex VII.



-43-
Annex VI
PAKISTAN - REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PAKISTAN - REFINED PRODUCTS SUPPLY AND DEMAND BALANCES a/
('000 MT)
Average
1980/81                    1988/89                Annual
Produc- Consump-            Produc-                      % Growth
Product       tion    tion  Balance b/  tion C/Demand Balance b/   in Demand
Motor
Gasoline    470      474      (4)        624    642      (18)          3.9
Aviation
Fuel         533     531       2         812    812         0           5.5
Superior
Kerosene    177      529   (352)           51    911    (860)           7.0
High-speed
Diesel       960   1,966 (1,006)       1,200  2,829  (1,629)           4.7
Light Diesel
Oil          172     192    (20)         306    333       (27)         7.1
High Octane
Elending
Component    35      115    (80)          51    207    (156)           7.6
Fuel Oil d/ 1,467      832    635         1,557  1,543       14           8.0
TOTALS  3,814   4,639   (825)        4,601  7,277  (2,676)           5.8
Source:  Actual figures for 1981, DGER; forecast for 1988/89, ENAR.
a/  Includes bunkering services for foreign aircrafts and ships, which were
not identified separately in forecasts.
b/  Surplus (Deficit).
c/  Based on processing 5.5 million tpy crude with the existing facilities
including the NRL expansion.
d/  Fuel oil demand in 1989 for power generation has been estimated at 0.92
million tpy based on recent studies for natural gas supply and demand.



-44-
Annex VII
PAKISTAN - REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PAKISTAN - REFINED PRODUCT PRICES
(March 1982, US$/gallon)
Annual
Consumer
Ex Refinery Price      Import Cost    Consumer    Price
Product          ARL        NRL/PRL    C&F Karachi       Price   Increase % d/
Gasoline _       N/A          1.90          1.30         2.40          15
Kerosene         0.19         0.91          1.10          1.04          10
Diesel           0.19         0.94          1.18          1.19          24
Fuel Oil b/    40.5         112.5         169.5C/       135.0           18
a/ High octane gasoline, comparable to imports, is not produced by ARL.
b/  Prices in US$/ton.
c/  FOB export price.
d/  Average since January 1979.



-45-
Annex VIII
PAKISTAN - REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PERAC - REVENUE SOURCES
(US$'000)
…---------------1980/81  …       …1979/80
NRL    NPC   ENAR Petrotech  Other    Total  Total
Dividends      628     500         -          -       1,128    534
Interest       466      11         13         89       579    503
Fees           274      50         10         -        334    399
Other           -       -          -         140        140      3
Total    1,368     561         23        229     2,181  1,439
=     _                = v                 =_
1979-80
Total    1,025     269         3Y        114     1,439
Source: PERAC Annual Report 1980-81. Historical data converted at then
prevailing rate of Rs 10: US$1.00.



-46-
Annex IX
PAKISTAN - REFINERY ENGINEERING AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PAKISTAN - HYDROCRACKER PROJECT DESIGN OUTPUT
('000 tpy)
Product                  Output      % Increase (Decrease)
in Domestic Capacity
High Speed Diesel              363                  30
Aviation/Superior Kerosene   222                    27
HOBC                           152                 224
Fuel Oil (Cracked)             504                 (43)
Liquified Petroleum Gas         30                  32
Sulfur                          21                . NA
Total                        1,292



IBRD 16248
64                                         68-                                  !72           U. S. SR                MARCH 1982
!  ./        .  W    H INA
PAKISTAN                                                          (.S.-.z                 CHINA
NATIONAL CAPITAL1                                                                 >r1
O CITIES AND TOWNS
NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS                                               Q)
RAILWAYS                                                           /
+      AIRPORTS                                                     58$                  )i
---       PROVINCIAL  BOUNDARIES                                                       h                   Approcimole L   Co
INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                                                           V ? AMABAam5 
.   /              :      g[Kandioro                               ~    ~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~0 100  200  300   400
,R        IIIVsEtRNSD    <                                                                 KlLOMETERS
.J   ..   ti                           t                 *<                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 50  100  150  200  250
(   ~       Xea S <:NoeoKbshahha                      M [ES
~~ ,r %4 ~~,/   r              / ~~~ X   -~~ ^q%SOtren<oi       gfrerobodThrop
the advnoreo teraeso
-t  vz  To to   >       I                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the report to which tooh aroacadr]
C   \   Badin                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The denom,net;sns used snd the
-240                                                                y,/                               1_)                     do sot imply,tod /thset parrotthee 7yG2
A4rCJG aQ                                                                                                 aoi  t7 ea  *  jsOerrtoryz ott an ozy7ndorrsmetot
- ~  ~      ~      ~     ,                                                 or ecoepteonce of sucth oenpar,eo
A-1~~~~~~~~~~~2
t                                  4~~~~~~~~~a.



