OF FICIAL
DOCiAT           LOAN NUMBER 2218 PAK
Loan Agreement
(Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE PETROLEUM REFINING AND PETROCHEMICAL
CORPORATION LTD.
Dated                            , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2218 PAK
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                /7, 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FO?RECONSTR TION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and STATE PETROLEUM REFINING AND PETRO-
CHEMICAL CORPORAION LTD. (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the cost of the project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project);
(B)   any financing so provided by the Bank would be re-
funded, if the Bank so requests, out of the proceeds of any loan
by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
which may later be granted to the Borrower for the construction
of the hydrocracker complex to be engineered under the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Bank is willing, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to maake a loan to the Borrower on the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditious; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and _'e following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "ENAR" means ENAR Petrotech Services Ltd., established
under The Companies Act of 1913 and having its principal office
at Karachi, Pakistan; and


﻿-2-
(b) "NRL" means National Refinery Ltd., established under
The Companies Act of 1913 and having its principal office at
Karachi, Pakistan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
oection 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to This Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement oC the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establi         The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarar - of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall p;, .u the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred seventy-seven thousand three hundred
forty dollars ($177,340).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annuo for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior tG the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means    the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the    first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other char,ges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to Lhis Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project, or cause Part A of the Project to be carried out; cause
ENAR to carry out Part B.1 of the Project, and cause NRL to carry
out Part B.2 of the Project, all with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformit   with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Out of the proceeds of the Loan the Borrower shall
relend about $400,000 equivalent to ENAR and about $1,400,000
equivalent to NRL under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered
into between the Borrovir and ENAR and NRL, respectively, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
(c) If the Borrower shall make available the proceeds of
the Loan for Part A of the ProJect to any other entity, such
proceeds shall be made available pursuant to a subsidiary agree-
ment under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under any
subsidiary agreement referred to in (b) or (c) above in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor
amend, abrogate or waive     said  subsidiary agreements or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the
Project, the Borrower, ENAR and NRL shall employ energy and
engineering  consultants whose qualifications, experience      and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) Upon the award by the Borrower, ENAR and NRL of any
contract for goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name


﻿-5-
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(c) The Borrower shall cooperate, and cause ENAR and NRL to
cooperate fully, with such consultants in the performance of
their services for the Project and make available to them all
information relevant to the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall cause such consultants promptly to
furnish to the Bank copies of the documents prepared by them for
the Project, including reports and drafts thereof, plans,
designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(e) With respect to the evaluation and implementation of
the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the
documents referred to in the preceding paragraph during the
carrying out of all Parts of the Project, the Borrower and the
Bank shall from time to time exchange views on said recommenda-
tions and conclusions during the carrying out of all Parts of the
Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, the
expenditures incurred by the Borrower for the Project and the use
of the proceeds of the Loan therefor and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to inspect any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition, including without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)


﻿-6-
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) retain, or cause to be retained, until one year after
the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
(c)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, sepa-
rate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and
(d) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree (i) if. the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to:


﻿-7-
(A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase there-
of, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of
such property or as security for the payment of debt incurred for
the purpose of financing the purchase of such property; or (B)
any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that the subsidiary loan agreements referred to in
Section 3,01 (b) of this Agreement have been executed by the
Borrower and ENAR and NRL, respectively.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the subsidiary loan agree-
ments referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement have been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ENAR and NRL,
respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and ENAR
and NRL as the case may be.
Section 5.03. The date                        , 1983, hereby
specified for the    purpose of   Section 12.04 of    the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Addresses
Section 6.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
State Petroleum Refining and
Petrochemical Corporation Ltd.
P.O. Box 8913
Merewether Road
Karachi
Pakistan
Cable address:                      Telex:
PERAC                              24546-PERAC PK
Karachi
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE PETROLEUM REFINING AND PETROCHEMICAL
CORPORATION LTD.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) License fees               2,100,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Consultant and             6,900,000         100% of foreign
technical                                  expenditures
services
(3) Equipment                  1,300,000        100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(4) Fee                          177,340        Amount due
(5) Unallocated                1,522,660
TOTAL          12,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the Lerm "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.


﻿- 10 -
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,200,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) and (2) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after October 1, 1982.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
aeeded to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procee--res set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDU"E 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Refinery Engineering
Preparation by the Borrower of the construction of a Hydro-
cracker Complex, which will be a grass-roots refining complex
having various process units including a hydrocracker unit
together with associated units and off-site and utility facili-
ties for reduced crude upgrading in the Karachi area including:
(i) obtaining necessary process know-how for the design; (ii)
engineering design specification of all process units and off-
sites and preparation of cost estimates and financing require-
ments; (iii) detailed engineering of critical units; (iv) con-
sultancy services during engineering and preparation of bidding
documents; and (v) carrying out site topographic and soil
surveys.
Part B:   Energy Conservation
1.   ENAR
Establishing an energy conservation unit within ENAR to
conduct energy audits and conservation studies, training
inter alia in energy audit techniques and methodologies, and
providing such unit with adequate equipment, instrumentation
and materials.
2.   NRL
(a)  Carrying out an energy audit of the facilities of
NRL through ENAR including studies to identify improvements
in operating practices and to identify investments to
decrease energy consumption, providing instrumentation for
such audit and for the control of energy use.
(b)  Carrying out various other conservation measures
inter alia to improve fired heater efficiencies and to
decrease evaporation losses from crude oil storage tanks.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 1988
through   January 15, 2003                 400,000


﻿- 13 -
PremIums oa Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen                          0.80
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                         0.90
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                            1.00
before maturity


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the, first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the  ex-factory  price  or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering   goods manufactured   in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.     In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or


﻿- 16 -
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Equipment estimated to cost not more than $50,000 equivalent
each and proprietary items may be procured through direct
negotiations with suppliers or limited international tendering as
appropriate, provided, however, that items and equipment so
procured shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent in the aggregate.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of prequalifications.    The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform     the Bank   in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part B above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for
its comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's  concurrence  before   it is   issued  to  the  prospective
bidders.


﻿- 17 -
(b) After   bids  have   been  received  and  evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in raspect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
trar-, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       , 198
FOR SECRETARY


