Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5775 
Operation Name 
WBG Support for Fiscal Sustainability and Public Financial 
Management 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (44%); Central 
government administration (22%); Power (22%); Other social 
services (12%) 
Project ID 
P118593 
Borrower(s) 
PALESTINIAN LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
Implementing Agency 
ALESTINIAN AUTHORITY/MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance 
Ramallah, West Bank 
West Bank and Gaza 
Tel: (972-2) 400-650  Fax: (972-2) 400-595 
mofird@palnet.com 
Date PID Prepared 
May 24, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 23, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 16, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Since the establishment of the Caretaker Government in mid-2007, the Palestinian Authority (PA) has 
made significant progress in creating new and stronger institutions that will be needed by a future 
Palestinian state. In December 2007, the PA presented its Palestinian Reform and Development Plan 
(PRDP) to donors at the Paris Donor Conference.  This comprehensive plan lays out a three-year 
program of reforms to help re-start economic growth and improve the welfare of citizens.  Despite 
enormous political challenges, the PA has steadily implemented the plan and will soon issue a new 
national plan that builds on the PRDP.  Gaza continues to be split from the West Bank, ruled by another 
government and isolated by Israeli closures. The peace process is moribund and Israeli settlement 
growth continues.  However, the PA has been able to gain widespread public support for its reform 
program and has made significant strides improving the efficiency and transparency of its operations.  It 
has been particularly successful in strengthening its fiscal position and improving public financial 
management -
 the areas supported by the World Bank’s Development Policy Grants (DPGs). 
The PA’s success has attracted large amounts of international aid, including substantial amounts of 
budget support.  Untied budget support is essential for the PA to function. Total expenditures and net 
lending were US$3.189 billion in 2009, however domestic revenues are estimated to have only covered 
about 50 percent. The biggest expenses include salaries (including pensions) and “net lending”, much of 
which are payments by the central government to the Israel Electricity Company for power supplied to 
Palestinian municipalities and other distributors.  The PA has been taking steps to control spending but 
there is limited room for further reductions. Consequently, until economic growth recovers enough to 
allow the PA to raise much larger domestic revenues, there will remain a large need for external 
financing.  It is critical that this external support be provided through the PA’s Central Treasury Account 
Page  2
(CTA) because using the CTA helps the PA develop budget discipline and strengthen its public financial 
management systems.  
Given the importance of untied budget support, the Bank has made helping the PA raise budget support 
a
major focus of its work in West Bank and Gaza (WBG).  The Bank has directly provided DPGs of 
$US40 million in 2008 and 2009.  In addition, the Bank manages the PRDP Multi-Donor Trust Fund, 
(PRDP-TF) which disburses u
ntied budget support based on the PA’s progress on implementing the 
PRDP reform agenda.  Since its inception in 2008, the PRDP-TF has disbursed more than US$400 
million.  But the Bank’s contribution goes beyond directly providing budget support.  The Bank’s 
monitoring, in consultation with the IMF, of the PA’s progress in implementing the PRDP, gives other 
donors confidence to provide budget support on their own account. The provision of this third DPG will 
send a strong signal that the Bank believes that the PA’s reforms are on track and that other donors 
should have confidence to continue to using the PA’s CTA.  
Providing a DPG in WBG continues to be a risky prospect.  For the DPG III to be successful in assisting 
the PA to maintain the reform momentum and develop institutions required by any future Palestinian 
state the PA, GOI and donors must all play their part. The PA must maintain the political will and 
popular support to implement difficult but necessary reforms. It will not be possible for the PA to 
become fiscally sustainable unless private sector growth rises to the level needed to support basic 
services for the Palestinian population.  This will require the PA to continue to improve the business 
environment especially through increased security.  But private sector growth mostly hinges on the GOI 
continuing to relax its economic restrictions in response to the improving security situation. Finally, the 
entire reform agenda depends on the readiness of the donor community to provide sustained high levels 
of budget support while the PA implements its reforms and the Palestinian economy recovers.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed operation will help the PA continue to implement the PRDP. Following on the DPG I and 
DPG II, the DPG III will maintain a focus on supporting efforts to improve the fiscal position and 
increase government transparency and accountability. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed operation is designed to support the PA as it continues to implement the reform program 
detailed in the PRDP, by supporting actions in two policy areas: (i) strengthening the fiscal position and 
(ii) improving public financial management.  The PA implemented the plan throughout 2008 and 2009 
and, as detailed in Word Bank monitoring reports, it is making adequate progress.  To have the largest 
impact, the proposed PRDP DPG III maintains the focus on the same two policy areas supported by the 
previous operations. These are critical building blocks for the government of an independent Palestinian 
state and are also crucial for attracting continued international donor support.  The Bank’s involvement 
in monitoring and providing technical assistance for the reform agenda described in previous operations’ 
policy matrices has helped strengthen the PA’s capacity to achieve its desired reforms and to also build 
the required support among donors.  This third operation is expected to have a similar impact.  
Page  3
The Bank supports the PRDP process in two complementary ways. First, it administers the PRDP-TF, as 
requested by the PA.  Second, it will provide more budget support with its own funds through the 
proposed PRDP DPG III.  The PRDP DPG III is a single tranche operation for which the related funds 
will be released on completion of the prior actions discussed below.  Releases from the PRDP-TF are 
made on a quarterly basis as long as the PA maintains progress on implementing its reform agenda 
based on indicators set out in the policy matrix for the PRDP DPG III.  It is envisioned that if the PA 
continues to make progress on their reform agenda and there is available funding, then the Bank may be 
asked to provide additional DPGs.  However, given the unstable nature of the political environment and 
the uncertain size of future Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB) replenishments, this remains 
a
single tranche operation. 
At the request of the Caretaker Government, the Bank, in consultation with the IMF, will continue to 
provide reports detailing the status of the reform process.  These reports are used not only by the Bank to 
determine whether to release the funds from the PRDP-TF, but are also be used by a variety of other 
donors to help determine the level of their support.  The donor community expects to see the PA 
continue to make significant strides towards controlling its budget deficit by controlling the wage bill 
and reducing net lending.  The PA has committed to reducing the wage bill from around 27 percent of 
GDP in 2007 to less than 22 percent by 2010.  The change in total net lending will depend on the cost of 
fuel, electricity demand and how soon the PA can regain control of Gaza.  However, currently the PA is 
projecting that net lending will decline from around US$535 million in 2007 to about US$250 million 
by 2010 and to US$224 million in 2012. The PA has also committed to strengthening the PFM system 
by improving the  standard accounting system used across all ministries, producing budgets in a 
transparent manner, improving commitment controls, and continuing to publish accounts that are subject 
to external audit. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The PRDP DPG III operation will not have significant effects on the country's environment, forests and 
other natural resources. The environmental and natural resource implications are driven to a large extent 
by the nature of an operation. In the proposed operation, none of the prior actions as listed in the policy 
matrix will have environmental impacts or risks. Additionally, the proposed PRDP DPG III does not 
have any investment lending subcomponent involving physical investment.  None of the
 Bank’s 
safeguard policies are triggered by the proposed operation. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Special Financing 
40 
 Total 
40 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: John L. Nasir 
Title: Lead Private Sector Development Spec. 
Page  4
Tel: 972-2-236-6500 
Fax:  
Email: Jnasir@worldbank.org 
Location: Gaza, West Bank and Gaza (IBRD)
 
