                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR1951



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-97915)



                                     ON A

                             TRUST FUND GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 40.0 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                  PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION

           (FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY)

                                     FOR A

             PALESTINIAN REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN

                      DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT III



                               December 22, 2011




Finance and Private Sector Development
West Bank and Gaza Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
           WEST BANK AND GAZA – GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective December 6, 2011)

                 US$ 1.00 = 3.73 New Israeli Shekels (NIS)
                   US$ 1.00 = 0.71 Jordanian Dinar (JD)

                        WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                            Metric System

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CTA        Central Treasury Account
DPG        Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Development Policy Grant
EU         European Union
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GoI        Government of Israel
IEC        Israel Electric Company
IMF        International Monetary Fund
JICA       Japan International Cooperation Agency
MoF        Ministry of Finance
MoLG       Ministry of Local Government
MoSA       Ministry of Social Affairs
NIS        New Israeli Shekel
PA         Palestinian Authority
PDO        Program Development Objectives
PFM        Public Financial Management
PECS       Palestinian Expenditure and Consumption Survey
PENRA      Palestinian Energy and Natural Resources Authority
PERC       Palestinian Energy and Regulatory Commission
PNCTP      Palestinian National Cash Transfer Program
PRDP       Palestinian Reform and Development Plan 2008-2010
PRDP-TF    Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Multi-Donor Trust Fund
SAACB      State Audit and Administrative Control Bureau
SHC        Special Hardship Cases
SSNRP      Social Safety Net Reform Project
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNRWA      United Nations Relief and Works Agency
WB&G       West Bank and Gaza


                 Vice President:   Inger Andersen
               Country Director:   Mariam J. Sherman
                Sector Director:   Loic Chiquier
                Sector Manager:    Simon C. Bell
          Program Team Leader:     John L. Nasir
              ICR Team Leader:     Elizabeth N. Rupert Bulmer
            ICR Primary Author:    Elizabeth N. Rupert Bulmer
                                               WEST BANK AND GAZA

                   PALESTINIAN REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN
                         DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT III
                                   CONTENTS

   Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring


 1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 19
 6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 22

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 23
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 24
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 25
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 26
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 37
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................... 38
MAP ........................................................................................................................................... 39
A. Basic Information
                                                                          WBG Support for
                                                                          Fiscal Sustainability
Country:                West Bank and Gaza      Program Name:
                                                                          and Public Financial
                                                                          Management
Program ID:             P118593                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-97915
ICR Date:               12/06/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          PALESTINIAN
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:                 LIBERATION
                                                                          ORGANIZATION
Original Total
                        USD 40.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 40.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 40.00M
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/10/2010     Effectiveness:                                10/05/2010
Appraisal:            07/28/2010     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             09/16/2010     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2011         06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:            Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                           Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                    Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               None
                                                    (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                             Quality of
                        No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      50                  50
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                          30                  30
Power                                                                  10                  10
Sub-national government administration                                 10                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                       80                  80
procurement
Rural policies and institutions                                        10                  10
Social safety nets                                                     10                  10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                        Shamshad Akhtar
Country Director:          Mariam J. Sherman                     Mariam J. Sherman
Sector Manager:            Simon C. Bell                         Simon C. Bell
Program Team Leader:       John L. Nasir                         John L. Nasir
ICR Team Leader:           Elizabeth N. Ruppert Bulmer
ICR Primary Author:        Elizabeth N. Ruppert Bulmer




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Support the continued implementation of the government's Palestinian Reform and
Development Plan to (i) strengthen the fiscal position and (ii) increase government
transparency and accountability through improved public financial management.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      PA 2010 wage bill does not exceed budget target of NIS6,053 million.
Value                                     PA 2010 wage bill                 PA 2010 wage bill
                   PA 2009 wage bill was
(quantitative or                          target NIS6,053                   was NIS6,017
                   NIS5,768 million
Qualitative)                              million                           million
Date achieved      12/31/2009             12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Target met.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      2010 public sector wage bill less than 23% of GDP.
Value                                     Public sector wage                  2010 public sector
                   2009 wage bill was
(quantitative or                          bill less than 23%                  wage bill was
                   22% of GDP.
Qualitative)                              of GDP.                             19.9% of GDP.
Date achieved      12/31/2009             12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Target met.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      2010 net lending falls to NIS950 million or less than 5% of GDP.
Value                                       NIS950 million, or                Net lending was
                   2009 net lending was
(quantitative or                            less than 5% of                   NIS880 million
                   5.5% of GDP
Qualitative)                                GDP                               (2.9% of GDP)
Date achieved      12/31/2009               12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Target met.
achievement)
                   At least 80% of electricity in Northern West Bank being distributed by the
Indicator 4 :
                   newly operational NEDCO.
                                            At least 80% of                   31% of electricity
Value                                       electricity in                    customers in
                   Nablus city transferred
(quantitative or                            Northern West                     Northern West
                   distribution to NEDCO
Qualitative)                                Bank distributed                  Bank have been
                                            by NEDCO                          transferred to

                                                iii
                                                                               NEDCO
Date achieved      06/30/2010               08/31/2011                         09/27/2011
Comments
                   Another 14% of electricity customers in Northern West Bank will be
(incl. %
                   transferred by December 2011. Target not met.
achievement)
                   All households receiving benefits under the new PNCTP are below absolute
Indicator 5 :
                   poverty line.
                                                                           Two-thirds of
                   Two previous programs All recipients of                 households
Value
                   not coordinated,        PNCTP benefits                  receiving PNCTP
(quantitative or
                   separate targeting      are below absolute              benefits are below
Qualitative)
                   mechanisms              poverty line                    absolute poverty
                                                                           line
Date achieved      01/01/2009              08/31/2011                      06/30/2011
Comments
                   Despite progress in updating database, transitioning non extreme-poor
(incl. %
                   recipients out of the system has not been implemented. Target not met.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Property tax collections rise to JD23 million in 2010 and JD30 million in 2011.
                                                                               Property tax
                                            Property tax                       collections reached
Value              2009 property tax
                                            collections equal                  JD44 million in
(quantitative or   collections were JD13.5
                                            to JD23 million in                 2010 and JD39
Qualitative)       million.
                                            2010.                              million for Jan-Sept
                                                                               2011.
Date achieved      12/31/2009               12/31/2010                         09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Target met.
achievement)
                   PA budget presented in a transparent manner and accounts comparable on an
Indicator 7 :
                   international basis.
                   2010 PA budget
                   presentation used       2011 budget                          2011 budget uses
Value
                   customized              presentation                         old presentation not
(quantitative or
                   classification          aligned with                         consistent with
Qualitative)
                   inconsistent with       GFSM structure.                      GSFM.
                   GFSM structure.
Date achieved      12/31/2009              01/31/2011                           03/31/2011
Comments           Although GFSM was used to prepare the 2011 budget and for in-year reporting
(incl. %           on budget execution, the presentation resorted to the old structure. Target not
achievement)       met.
Indicator 8 :      2011 budget prepared and adopted by January 2011.
                                           2011 budget
Value                                                                           2011 budget
                   2010 budget adopted in prepared and
(quantitative or                                                                adopted in March
                   March 2010              adopted by
Qualitative)                                                                    2011.
                                           January 2011
Date achieved      03/31/2010              01/31/2011                           03/31/2011
Comments
                   Target not met.
(incl. %


                                                 iv
achievement)
Indicator 9 :      All purchase orders for capital expenditures subject to MOF control.
                                                                             All capital purchase
                   Capital purchases not All capital
Value                                                                        orders subject to
                   constrained by available purchase orders
(quantitative or                                                             MoF control via
                   cash resources, only by subject to MoF
Qualitative)                                                                 making cash
                   budget appropriation. control
                                                                             available
Date achieved      12/31/2009                08/31/2011                      08/31/2011
Comments           MoF used new procurement module to restrict capital expenditures in late 2010
(incl. %           and early 2011. Most capital expenditures in 2011 have been to clear arrears
achievement)       from earlier periods, although new arrears have emerged. Target met.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      In 2012 the wage bill declines to less than 19% of GDP.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                        IP                  Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Background. For over a decade, the West Bank and Gaza (WB&G) has suffered
episodes of violence and the destruction of property. The unstable security situation has
led the Government of Israel (GoI) to impose restrictions on the movement of people and
goods into, out of, between and within the West Bank and Gaza Strip. This, along with
the unpredictable and frequent closure of external and internal borders, has caused major
disruptions to economic activity through limiting factors of production as well as access
to imported inputs and export markets. Moreover, the GoI continues to control about 60
percent of the West Bank land area, making it effectively off-limits to Palestinian
development. Economic output has been severely constrained within this climate. As a
result, incomes fell and poverty rates and unemployment have soared, with negative
implications for the welfare of the Palestinian people during much of the last decade.
However, in 2007 with the establishment of a new Palestinian Authority (PA)
government and increased donor aid, economic growth began to recover.

The PA has relied heavily on international donor support to finance its operations,
develop government institutions, and ensure the delivery of public services. But the 2006
election of a Hamas-led government caused most donors to withdraw direct PA support
and the Government of Israel to cut off the transfer of tax clearance revenues that it
collects on behalf of the PA; the result was a blow to economic recovery and institution-
building.

In mid-2007, a Caretaker Government was established, enabling the PA to rebuild basic
operating systems that had deteriorated and create and strengthen the institutions
necessary for a future Palestinian state. But the Caretaker Government only held power
in the West Bank; the Gaza Strip continued to be governed by the previous government.
The international community rallied around the new Caretaker Government; most donors
restarted their programs, and the GoI released tax clearance revenues. Through a series
of internal and external consultations with stakeholders, civil society groups and
international donors, the authorities developed a 3-year Palestinian Reform and
Development Plan (PRDP). The plan focuses on strengthening the PA’s fiscal position
and improving governance and accountability while targeting spending to social sectors
and priority public goods that foster private sector development. In addition, it sets out a
public investment program to complement the private sector investment that is expected
to power the economy. The plan can only be fully implemented in the West Bank, where
the new government is in full control. However, it is designed to be expanded to Gaza as
soon as the situation permits. Despite ongoing mobility restrictions and closures and the
internal break between the governments of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip – requiring
a shift in some public functions from Gaza to the West Bank – the PA has made
considerable progress in its reform program.




                                             1
Macroeconomic Environment. At the time the PRDP DPG III was prepared – two-
thirds of the way through the PA’s PRDP implementation period – the economy
continued in recovery mode, after a period of stagnation in the West Bank (2005-2006)
and severe contraction in the Gaza Strip (2006-2008). Per capita GDP grew steadily, but
because the starting point was a very low base, real per capita incomes still fall short of
their 1999 level (current income per capita was estimated at US$2,007 in 2010, up from
US$1,633 in 2008). The robust 10-12 percent growth rates observed in the West Bank
during 2007-2009 contrast with the sharp contraction of the Gaza economy. These
divergent growth trends stem from the fact that mobility constraints are relatively less
binding in the West Bank, and large sustained inflows of donor assistance are
concentrated in the West Bank. The economy is highly dependent on public sector
spending; for example, PA commitments accounted for about 42 percent of GDP in 2010,
while government wage expenditures represented nearly 22 percent of GDP. Whereas
public and private investment increased and credit to the private sector expanded, the
largest share of this investment was not in sectors like manufacturing, agriculture or high
value-added services that can sustain economic expansion through trade and job creation,
but rather in real estate, construction and the public sector.

Recent labor market developments echo the growth outcomes in 2009 and 2010. Labor
force participation rose and unemployment fell in the West Bank, while the reverse was
observed in the Gaza Strip. Overall unemployment rates remained elevated compared to
the 1990s, however, when a large proportion of the Palestinian labor force commuted to
relatively well-paid jobs in Israel.

The economic outlook at the time the DPG III was prepared was for continued recovery,
with annual growth rates in the 7-10 percent range, concentrated primarily in the West
Bank and assuming no deterioration in the Gaza Strip. This, together with continued
progress in institution-strengthening, fiscal control, and expenditure restraint, would
increase government efficiency and accountability and foster increased confidence in
Palestinian institutions and the economy. But the question of security remains central to
economic growth prospects and the fiscal health of the PA. Without further easing of
movement and access restrictions by the GoI, trade and consumption tax revenues will
remain depressed, the private sector will not be able to grow, and the population will
have little choice but to continue its reliance on public wages and cash transfers.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The PA is achieving results in implementing the PRDP,
but given the extremely challenging political and economic environment, it needs the
help of the international community to move forward and consolidate progress to-date.
Given its low revenue streams, untied budget support is essential for the PA to cover
recurrent expenditures. The Bank established the PRDP Multi-Donor Trust Fund (PRDP-
TF) as a vehicle for untied budget support to implement the PRDP. In addition, the Bank
provided US$80 million in direct budget support under the DPG I in 2008 and DPG II in
2009 (US$40 million each), and the PA’s satisfactory progress toward its development
objectives implies a strong government commitment and effectiveness, meriting
continued financial and technical support for the government’s reform program. This
was the rationale for the current operation, DPG III for US$40 million. Bank support

                                            2
through the Multi-Donor Trust Fund helped mobilize other donors; the Bank’s US$120
million contribution under the DPGs I, II and III has been complemented by over
US$700 million in support through the PRDP-TF since its inception.

Channeling external support through the PA’s Central Treasury Account (CTA) helps the
PA to develop budget discipline and strengthen its public financial management systems.
The PA believes that ongoing Bank assistance in the form of untied budget support will
continue to catalyze much-needed donor support as the PA strives to establish the
institutions of an effective, transparent and accountable government.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Program Development Objectives are to support the PA’s implementation of the
Palestinian Reform and Development Plan with specific focus on:
I. Strengthening the PA’s fiscal position through:
        a. improved spending controls on the public sector wage bill;
        b. reductions in net lending through the transfer of electricity supply and
            distribution to commercial companies;
        c. better targeting of the social safety net to increase efficiency and protect the
            most vulnerable populations;
        d. improved domestic revenue collection.

II. Increasing government transparency and accountability and improving public financial
management through:
         a. improved efficiency and transparency of the budget preparation process;
         b. upgraded institutional and regulatory procedures to support PFM reforms;
         c. stronger PFM infrastructure and improved auditing functions.

The associated key performance indicators (outcomes expected during the 12 months
following effectiveness) are as follows:
i.     The 2010 public sector wage bill does not exceed the budget target of NIS6,053
       million.
ii.    The 2010 public sector wage bill is less than 23 percent of GDP.
iii.   2010 net lending falls to NIS950 million or less than 5 percent of GDP.
iv.    At least 80 percent of electricity in the Northern West Bank is being distributed
       by the newly operational Northern Electric Distribution Company (NEDCO).
v.     All households receiving benefits under the new Palestinian National Cash
       Transfer Program (PNCTP) are below the absolute poverty line.
vi.    Property tax collections rise to JD23 million in 2010 and JD30 million in 2011.
vii.   The PA budget is presented in a transparent manner, and accounts are comparable
       on an international basis.
viii. The 2011 budget is prepared and adopted by January 2011.
ix.    All purchase orders for capital expenditures are subject to MoF control.




                                            3
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

There were no revisions to the program objectives or indicators.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

As reflected in the prior actions listed in Section 2.1 below and summarized in the results
framework (refer to the Policy Matrix in the Project Document), the DPG III supported
the following policy areas.

Control the public sector wage bill. In light of the PA’s dependence on donor funding,
high priority is accorded to reigning in public expenditure, and wages represent the
largest share of the budget. Expenditures are being addressed through limits on general
wage increases, promotions and new hiring, which will be facilitated by the integrated
payroll and human resource system under implementation. Unfunded liabilities in the
form of public sector pensions are also a big budget item. The DPG III and its
predecessors supported pension reform, both at the regulatory and administrative levels
(including, inter alia, centralizing all PA pension records and eliminating early
retirement) with a view to ensuring financial sustainability and expanded coverage in the
medium term.

Reduce net lending. At present, much of the electricity distribution within the West Bank
and Gaza Strip is through local government entities. Because there is no electricity
generation within the West Bank and there is only limited generation in Gaza, the
majority of electricity supply must be purchased from the Israel Electric Company. The
electricity distribution system is very inefficient – administratively, financially and
technically. For example, losses are technical (line losses) and non-technical (non-
payment). Whereas municipal distributors provide electricity, bill collection is only
partial. Moreover, many municipalities divert these revenues to finance municipal
operations rather than paying for electricity supply. In the end, the PA bears the fiscal
responsibility in order to avoid service disruptions, but even this process is not
completely transparent because the Israeli Ministry of Finance deducts the amount owed
from unrelated tax revenue it collects on behalf of the PA (i.e., clearances). It is therefore
not surprising that net lending costs have been high in the past, given that the PA lacks
direct control over them.

DPG III and its predecessors supported the government’s goal to transfer all electricity
distribution 1 to commercial distribution companies, with plans for three new regional
distribution companies in the West Bank, and a separate distribution company in Gaza.
NEDCO, the distribution company in Northern West Bank, is in operation, and DPG III
is supporting its expansion of coverage through assistance to NEDCO, the Palestinian
Energy and Natural Resources Authority (PENRA), and the Palestinian Energy and Regulatory


1
    The transfer of electricity supply will be addressed at a later stage.


                                                         4
Commission (PERC).       Additional measures supported by the DPG to encourage bill
payment include the introduction of new, progressive unified tariffs (including a lifeline
tariff to ensure electricity access by poor households), the installation of prepaid meters,
and the use of Certificates of Payment (COP) which makes public assistance conditional
on payment of electricity bills.

Improve the safety net. The PA committed itself – under the PRDP and with the support
of DPG III and its predecessors – to streamlining existing public assistance programs into
a cohesive and efficient social safety net administered by the Ministry of Social Affairs
(MoSA), enabling it to improve targeting, increase efficiency, and ensure that the most
vulnerable populations are protected. With support from DPG III, the new merged
Palestinian National Cash Transfer Program (PNCTP) targets households in extreme poverty
through proxy means testing using household survey data, conducts household visits to
verify eligibility, and uses a single payment modality. The medium-term goal is to
establish and maintain an effective targeting database to guide all assistance programs, be
they PA or donor-funded. This will help to coordinate all forms of assistance to optimize
targeting and delivery through uniform payment modalities.

Increase revenue collection by municipalities. Driven by the severe constraints facing the
PA regarding revenue-raising options, this operation supported the PRDP objective to
expand its domestic revenue collections, in particular by increasing the number of
municipalities in which it collects property taxes. DPG III supported this expansion and
concurrent Ministry of Finance (MoF) efforts to re-value properties; these policies aim to
increase the financial sustainability of local governments and discourage future diversion
of electricity revenues.

Advance public financial management reform. The DPG supported the government’s
reform goals to increase transparency and accountability through improved public
financial management, a prerequisite for increasing government efficiency and attracting
donor financing for untied budget support. A major focus of these efforts is the budget
preparation process. DPG III supported the development and adoption of a new budget
classification system that is consistent with the IMF’s GFSM 2001 structure; these
measures make the budget more transparent and comparable on an international basis,
and should assist in planning capital expenditures in line with the government’s new 3-
year National Plan. The regulatory and institutional reforms aim to strengthen internal
controls and facilitate budget preparation by connecting line ministries to the new
computerized financial management system and ultimately tie in with macroeconomic
and fiscal forecasting efforts. The DPG’s support for infrastructure upgrades are
intended to provide more control over capital expenditures (an important component of
efficient cash planning and management) and limit the accumulation of arrears. These
PFM reforms are complemented by regulatory and capacity-building measures to
improve auditing functions in line with international standards.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

The World Bank Board approved the PRDP DPG III in September 2010, and the loan

                                             5
became effective on October 5, 2010. The operation was a single tranche, such that
submission to the Bank’s Board was conditioned on prior actions being met. The table
below provides a summary of prior actions.

2.1 Program Performance

            Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Development Policy Grant III
    Prior Actions                                                                     Status
    1. Budget law includes provisions to ensure that all promotions in the PA are Met
    supported by adequate budget allocations.
    2. The Council of Ministers adopted a plan for pension reform that seeks to Met
    control growth of pension liabilities.
    3. The Council of Ministers adopted a decision to ensure that PA employees may Met
    not draw pensions until they reach statutory retirement age.
    4. Electricity distribution in the municipality of Nablus is transferred to NEDCO Met
    and NEDCO is effectively operating.
    5. The SSNRP and SHC cash assistance programs are merged into the PNCTP that Met
    is operating using a single payment modality in the West Bank.
    6. In 2009, the PA expanded the number of municipalities in which it collects Met
    property tax from 25 to 34 municipalities.
    7. A new economic and administrative budget classification is developed for use Met
    in the preparation of the 2011 budget aligned with the economic classification
    based on the GFSM 2001 structure.1
    8. All line ministries are connected to the new computerized financial Met
    management system.
    9. A new module for commitment control is introduced into the MOF’s Met
    computerized accounting system to provide more control over capital
    expenditures.
    10. The 2008 PA financial statements are prepared and sent for audit to the PA’s Met
    external auditors.
1
   While GFSM 2001 is an accrual methodology, the economic classification will be based on the cash
accounting system used in the West Bank and Gaza.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

The PA’s ambitious reform program laid out in the PRDP and supported by DPGs I and
II and by the current operation DPG III achieved measured success during 2010 despite a
complex environment characterized by challenging institutional, political and economic
circumstances. Reform progress is dependent not only upon actions by the PA, but also
upon the actions of the Israeli government and donors. Whereas the Palestinian economy
experienced positive growth during the life of the operation, ongoing movement and
access restrictions continue to constrain the development space by limiting private sector
growth and incomes and the fiscal revenues collected by the PA (for consumption and
trade taxes, for example). 2 Furthermore, security concerns – and the financial and


2
   Whereas certain taxes are collected directly by the PA, other taxes – in particular trade, petroleum excise
and value-added taxes – are also collected by the GoI on behalf of the PA and transferred in the form of
clearance revenues. In 2010 and the first half of 2011, total clearance revenues were lower than expected.

                                                      6
training resources necessary to ensure a secure operating environment for individuals and
firms – shape the PA’s day-to-day agenda in ways that can divert focus and impede
progress on the ground due to logistical constraints. Moreover, the PA does not control
Gaza, despite the fact that it continues to provide basic services and employ a significant
share of Gaza residents.

Add to these constraints the uncertainty associated with the availability of donor funds,
which arrive at unpredictable intervals. Delays in donor disbursements – a serious
problem for cash management in light of the PA’s dependence on external financing –
imposed further costs, as the PA resorted to domestic bank financing and accumulation of
arrears to cover shortfalls. Together these factors conspired to impede efforts to establish
regular government functions that are efficient, transparent, and predictable and that
ensure accountability.

The PA has displayed solid commitment to the PRDP and the objectives supported by the
current operation. After three years of PA effort and external technical support for
implementing the PRDP, the most simple reforms have been accomplished. But the rapid
pace achieved by the reform implementers ―in the trenches‖ has slowed, in part due to the
nature of first-round vs. second round reforms, with the first round often focusing on low-
hanging fruit or easy wins, while subsequent reforms tend to be more complex and
politically contentious. With respect to PFM reforms, for example, initial reforms tended
to be technical and process-oriented, achieved through technical assistance and capacity-
building at counterpart ministries; later-stage reforms, in contrast, moved beyond the
introduction of new processes to their widespread and effective use. Partly because of this
increasing complexity, reform progress has slowed.

The risk factors associated with the current operation were well articulated in the
Program Document; these include the challenging security climate, politically sensitive
reforms, externally imposed movement and access restrictions and resulting constraints
on economic recovery, and the PA’s fundamental reliance on aid, particularly untied
budget support. Successful implementation of the PRDP will require not only strong
government commitment, but also the cooperation of the GoI and continued generous
support by the donor community. Mitigation efforts by the Bank to foster reform
progress and build the confidence of donors to provide budget support have been largely
effective.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

As a follow-on project, DPG III benefits from the lessons associated with the M&E
arrangements and outcomes of the preceding operations. The DPG III operation is based
on the PRDP which itself is a consensus plan developed through a process of broad
consultation. The outcome indicators for DPG III were also selected on the basis of
stakeholder feedback, not only because they were judged to be important indicators of
performance, but also for their capacity to be measured (i.e., quantifiable) and monitored.
At the request of the PA, the Bank continues to provide regular monitoring of the PRDP,
through in-country daily contact with counterparts and through a quarterly monitoring
review. The MoF also produces quarterly reviews of fiscal developments and
                                             7
performance. These reviews provide regular opportunities for consultation and close
cooperation with the IMF and other donors.

This joint monitoring mechanism was set up under DPG I to coincide with the monitoring
needs of the Bank-administered Multi-Donor Trust Fund that also supports the PRDP.
Under this Trust Fund, the World Bank, in consultation with the IMF, assesses reform
progress on the basis of PA-provided progress reports, and these feed into Trust Fund
disbursement decisions. These assessments are communicated to the donor community,
providing a signal for harnessing additional support for the Trust Fund. This monitoring
mechanism will continue over the life of the Trust Fund. The new macro fiscal unit
created in 2010 by the MoF to enhance the PA’s capacity to track PRDP implementation
has also facilitated the supervision of DPG III.

One of the lessons from the implementation experience of DPG II was that some outcome
indicators were overly ambitious in terms of their timing; to address this concern,
outcome indicators for DPG III were selected only if achievable within the operation’s
short timeframe. The outcome indicator relating to the distribution of electricity by
NEDCO, for instance, was not fully met but is likely to be met with minor time delays;
but these delays were not beyond the PA’s control and thus were avoidable (discussed in
section 3.2 below).       One of the specific recommendations derived from the
implementation of DPG II was to stagger outcome targets and planned actions that lead
toward intermediate development objectives but that also fit within the timing of a short,
single-tranche policy-based operation; DPG III has successfully managed this.

The monitoring arrangements, where possible, take advantage of synergies with other
Bank operations. This is the case with the targeting improvements for the PNCTP, which
overlap with efforts of the Social Safety Net Reform Project currently under
implementation. The Electric Utility Management Project, which supports the transition
to commercial electricity distribution, monitors the collection of utility fees and data from
regional distribution companies and the Palestinian Energy and Natural Resources
Authority (PENRA).         With respect to PFM, two ongoing operations provide
complementary supervision: WB&G Public Financial Management (during FY11) and
the WB&G Governance and PFM project (during FY 12). Effective leveraging of other
projects assists in reinforcing reforms and institution- and capacity-building activities
undertaken by the PA. For example, DPG III leveraged contributions from the EU for
capacity-building in the state auditing office SAACB, and the UK’s DFID assisted with
the budget reforms being implemented at the MoF and line ministries. With respect to
property tax reforms, DPG III support complemented technical assistance from bilateral
and multilateral donors, specifically the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA),
the UNDP and the Government of Denmark.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation:

In response to a request from the government for further support in its efforts to
implement the PRDP, the Bank has prepared a follow-up operation, DPG IV. Similar to
its predecessors, DPG IV will focus on (i) strengthening the PA’s fiscal position and
consolidating recent gains, and (ii) improving public financial management. Retaining
                                             8
the monitoring mechanisms currently in place will assist in the new operation’s
effectiveness in supporting the PA’s reform program.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Bank’s assistance strategy for the West Bank and Gaza is outlined in the most recent
strategy note which was written in conjunction with the preparation of DPG I and
remains relevant under the current circumstances. 3 The strategy aims to support the
government’s reform agenda as articulated in the PRDP. Successful reform depends not
only on the effectiveness of PA efforts, but also on the security environment and actions
by the GoI to ease closures to allow private sector growth. Donor support to finance the
PA’s recurrent budget is also critical to reform success. The operation’s objectives,
design and implementation are based on the PA’s reform program, and are therefore fully
consistent with WB&G’s development priorities.

The Bank’s assistance has focused on mutually reinforcing goals:
    providing technical support for the fiscal, social protection and public financial
      management aspects of the PRDP to promote fiscal sustainability, an effective
      safety net and government accountability;
    encouraging donors’ commitment to provide untied budget support, allowing the
      PA to continue developing its institutional capacity to deliver essential services to
      its citizens.
These goals are also consistent with the Bank’s global priorities of strengthening
government institutions and services to protect the poor, and improving governance.

With respect to the operation’s design, the components represent a sound and consistent
framework with a strategically appropriate and achievable scope. The challenge in
designing a reform strategy is to strike the right balance between ambitious reforms and
existing or potential capacity to implement them. Over-reaching could in fact undermine
the reform effort if strong anti-government sentiment develops. Being realistic in both
scope and timing is therefore essential. Within the Palestinian context, in which the PA
has only limited authority, the PA – in consultation with donors – identified a selective
list of critical reforms that were deemed to be achievable in the present environment. As
the reform process advances and the government increases its capacity and authority, it
may be possible to add more ambitious reforms to the agenda.

The reforms and targeted outcomes under DPG III represent a more streamlined short-
term agenda compared to DPG II as a result of the implementation experience with that
operation. Nevertheless, delays with respect to the transfer of electricity distribution


3
  Interim Strategy for West Bank and Gaza for the Period FY08-FY10 and Request for Replenishment of
the Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank, March 25, 2008. Because West Bank and Gaza is not a
member country, there is no Country Assistance Strategy.


                                                9
from the municipalities to commercial distribution company NEDCO under DPG III
suggest an overambitious implementation schedule targeted in the Policy Matrix outcome
indicator, given the large number of agents (over 200 municipalities/councils need to
agree to the transfer) and the political nature of negotiations linked to compensation. In
this regard, the expected outcomes proved unrealistic within the operation’s 12-month
timeframe.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

I. Strengthen the PA’s Fiscal Position

a. Control the public sector wage bill
The overarching PDO to strengthen the PA’s fiscal position cannot be addressed without
controlling the public sector wage bill, given that wages and salaries account for the
largest share of the PA budget. In the absence of employment-generating private sector
growth during the past decade, the PA used public employment creation as an aggregate
demand stimulus and social protection program. Between 2005 and 2007, PA
employment grew 38 percent, and exceeded 180,000. Under the PRDP, the PA sought to
(i) reduce the workforce to a reasonable base (150,000) and (ii) limit net public job
growth to an annual cap of 3,000 and by targeting priority sectors – namely, health and
education. Great strides were made under DPGs I and II, and by March 2010 the PA
workforce had fallen to 149,500, but new hires exceeded 3,000 and were concentrated in
the security sector. Moreover, the 2009 wage bill was 2 percent over budget, in part due
to a 4 percent general wage increase. Under DPG III, however, the PA had better success
in meeting its targets. Net PA hiring in 2010 was 3,317, two-thirds in health and
education, although security hiring continued. The 2010 wage bill was NIS6,017 million
(NIS36 million under target). And because of stronger GDP growth, the public sector
wage bill accounted for only 19.9 percent of GDP, well below the targeted 23 percent in
the Policy Matrix. Wage costs in 2011 have outpaced budget expectations, however, in
part because of retroactive salaries for new hires appointed at the end of 2010.

As a prior action, all promotions within the PA were required to be supported by
adequate budget allocations. Also underway is the integration of payroll and human
resource systems, intended to streamline and automate personnel actions and act as
another control mechanism on public sector hiring. This integrated approach is being
piloted in two ministries, with full roll-out planned for 2012. Implementation proceeded
more slowly than planned because it was not accorded high enough priority by the PA
and suffered from institutional inertia. Important progress had been made in pension
reform, as reflected in prior actions 2 and 3 (recall from the table in Section 2.1).
Whereas centralizing public pension records as laid out in the Policy Matrix (planned
action during DPG III implementation) and consolidating administration of all pension
schemes under the Palestinian Pensions Authority have advanced, these processes are not
complete.

b. Reduce net lending
The DPG III supported reforms to withdraw the state from providing electricity
distribution services in order to commercialize distribution and reduce the large implicit
                                           10
government subsidy. 4 Several measures under the PRDP are being implemented to
reduce non-payment of electricity bills. The first requires citizens to present a
―Certificate of Payment‖ of utility bills in order to receive municipal services; any arrears
are deductible from government employees’ salaries. Pre-paid meters are also being
installed to ensure bill payment; by end-2010, about 150,000 prepaid meters had been
installed in the West Bank, and another 210,000 meters are currently being tendered for
future installation. The Palestinian Energy and Regulatory Commission (PERC) issued
new electricity tariffs in July 2011, and PERC and PENRA – with support from the MoF
and Ministry of Local Government (MoLG) – are supervising the transfer of electricity
distribution in both the Northern and Southern West Bank.

Distribution services are being shifted to newly created commercial distributors, but this
reform has proceeded more slowly than anticipated. NEDCO, created as a prior action
under DPG I, currently provides electricity to large parts of two of the four largest
municipalities in the northern West Bank, namely Nablus and Jenin, accounting for 31
percent of all electricity customers in the region (falling short of the 80 percent target).5
Many municipal and village councils have shown resistance to joining NEDCO, resulting
in an inability to finalize compensation agreements. The MoF and MoLG have created a
framework for compensation to municipalities to adjust for the implied lost revenue from
electricity bill collections, but there are 49 Municipal Councils, 123 Village Councils and
64 Project Committees within NEDCO’s concession area, comprising a large number of
partners with whom to conclude agreements. The lack of financial plans in each
municipality complicates these compensation negotiations, as has the uncertain and
fluctuating timing of local government elections. This challenge – namely the need to
negotiate terms with each municipality – is compounded by institutional weaknesses at
NEDCO that are typical of a new company, together explaining the slower-than-targeted
expansion of NEDCO services. As of September 2011, 31 percent of electricity
customers in Northern West Bank have been transferred to NEDCO, comprising 80,000
customers of a total potential customer base of 258,000 (this translates into a slightly
higher share of electricity actually distributed, given the presence of industrial zones in
Nablus and Jenin). Another 37,000 customers (14 percent) are expected to be added by
end-December 2011 when another 15 councils are slated to join (negotiations in progress).

Nevertheless, the target for reducing net lending was met and even surpassed, with actual
net lending falling to NIS880 million (2.9 percent of GDP) in 2010. And net lending


4
   This subsidy is reflected in very high levels of net lending (11 percent of GDP in 2007) which arise as a
result of technical line losses, non-technical losses from insufficient collection of electricity bills by utilities
and municipalities (i.e., the culture of non-payment), and the diversion of collections to finance municipal
budgets. Electricity supply comes from the Israeli Electric Company, which charges the PA for any
overdue bills owed by the municipalities by deducting payments from clearance revenues.

5
    Note that whereas the outcome indicator targets NEDCO’s share of total electricity distributed in
Northern West Bank, a lack of data from still-to-join municipalities and village councils precludes this
measurement. Nevertheless, NEDCO’s performance – servicing 31 percent of total potential customers –
translates into significantly less than the 80 percent target.


                                                        11
continued its downward trend in the first half of 2011. This outstanding performance vis-
à-vis the 2010 target outcome of 5 percent of GDP can in part be explained by the decline
in PA support for fuel to the power plant in Gaza, which ceased altogether in October
2010.

c. Improve social safety net targeting
Given the high unemployment and poverty rates and rapid population growth in WB&G,
social assistance programs play a crucial role in protecting vulnerable populations and
boosting aggregate demand. As indicated in the Project Document, there are multiple
safety net programs being implemented not only by various agencies within the PA but
also by NGOs and external agencies such as UNRWA. Typically uncoordinated and with
inefficient or even duplicate targeting, the PA committed itself – under the PRDP and
with the support of DPG III and its predecessors – to streamline the programs into a
cohesive and efficient social safety net administered by the Ministry of Social Affairs.

To this end, the PA merged the main cash assistance programs in the West Bank, (i) the
Bank-funded Social Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP) and (ii) the EU-funded Special
Hardship Case (SHC) program, into the Palestinian National Cash Transfer Program
(PNCTP) under the MoSA and operated using a single payment modality. This
institutional step was a prior action to DPG III, and the implementation on the ground has
progressed significantly in the past 12 months. The unified PNCTP relies on proxy
means test targeting using the latest household survey data (PECS 2007) to identify
needy households. This identification process is used to classify potential beneficiaries
into the following categories: extreme poor, poor, and non-poor, with overlapping
categories for vulnerable households (e.g., female-headed, elderly household head,
presence of disability).

Under the new proxy means test, existing and new potential beneficiaries need to be
confirmed through home visits to update and verify information. With the support of
DPG III, MoSA successfully recertified over 60,000 households in the West Bank (of
100,000 households visited) and 31,000 households in the Gaza Strip, surpassing the
targets identified in the Policy Matrix. As of end-September 2011, 44,951 households in
the WB were eligible for the PNCTP, 65 percent of which are extreme poor. The
remaining 35 percent are classified as ―vulnerable‖ and were approved for MoSA
benefits, and receive a lower level of benefit compared to those in the extreme poor
category. In Gaza, around 50,000 households were deemed eligible for the PNCTP,
including 19,000 newly identified households. About 70 percent of eligible Gaza
households are extreme poor. The PNCTP was designed to benefit only the extreme poor,
implying that non-extreme poor households should be removed from eligibility. But
given the prevailing poor economic conditions, the PA approved a gradual phase-out of
poor and non-poor beneficiaries, with the transition period originally set for June 2011
but extended to 2012. As a result, the outcome indicator in the Policy Matrix that
stipulates that all PNCTP beneficiary households should be below the absolute poverty
line was not met by end-September 2011. A transitional plan is in place to enforce this
provision next year, although political pressures to retain some type of benefit for
―vulnerable‖ groups will be high.

                                           12
In a related effort to strengthen the safety net, the new electricity tariffs issued in July
2011 by PERC are progressive, with the goal of promoting energy conservation but at the
same time ensuring minimum access by low income families through a ―lifeline‖ tariff
(as laid out in the DPG III Policy Matrix under Planned Actions). The first tariff block
was designed in consultation with MoSA to allow for basic electricity consumption at a
lower price. The tariff for electricity consumption in the 1-100 kWh range is 0.4085
NIS/kWh, which reflects the actual cost of electricity supply. The tariff rises by 11
percent for consumption between 100 and 200 kWh, and by a further 5 percent for
consumption above 200 kWh. So for a family consuming 100 kWh per month, the
resulting expenditure on electricity equal to NIS40 represents 16 percent of the minimum
monthly PNCTP payment of NIS250. Going forward, the proxy means test for PNCTP
eligibility will be adjusted to incorporate electricity consumption variables.

d. Improve domestic revenue collection
During the implementation of DPG III, the MoF continued to improve local revenue
collection. In the past two years, the MoF has focused on expanding the previously
under-utilized property tax mechanism. In 2008, property taxes were collected in only 22
municipalities. Some of the obstacles to property tax collection include: (i) the absence
of physical plans that are legally required in order to perform property valuations;
(ii) inadequate land registration, which impedes the PA from identifying properties and
their owners in order to levy tax; (iii) valuations are rent-based, but in some areas there is
no rental property; and (iv) the valuation process is time-consuming and inefficient.
Nevertheless, property tax collection expanded considerably by extending the number of
covered municipalities to 28 in 2009, 37 in 2010, and an anticipated 50 municipalities by
end-2011. Revaluations in 2010 and 2011 also boosted revenue. Property tax revenues
jumped significantly in 2010 and 2011, reaching US$30.8 million (JD43.7 million) in
2010 and US$27.8 million (JD39.3 million) from January to September 2011, far
surpassing the outcome target indicators in the Policy Matrix. 6 Within those
municipalities already covered, collection rates are very high, ranging between 85 and
100 percent, in part due to requirements making other MoF services such as car
registration conditional on proof of property tax payment. Reforms were delayed to some
degree by initial resistance among municipalities and the prospect of municipal elections
which did not ultimately transpire (49 municipalities were originally targeted for end-
2010). The process could benefit from streamlining and digitizing the valuation and
recording process, and implementing a more efficient payment system.

II. Increase Government Transparency and Accountability through Improved PFM

a. Improve the budget preparation process
DPG III builds on the support provided under DPGs I and II to the budget preparation
process. Sound public financial management is aided through systems that support
budget planning, revenue and cash management and expenditure controls. Moreover, the



6
    Property tax targets were JD23 million in 2010 and JD30 million in 2011.


                                                    13
budget preparation process is central to establishing spending priorities at the aggregate
and line ministry levels, aligning resources with financing needs, and identifying
financing gaps. Planning is particularly important – and difficult – in WB&G because of
limited revenue options and uncertainty associated with the clearance revenues from the
GoI and the availability of donor support.

As indicated in the Project Document, increasing transparency and improving PFM are
essential to increasing the PA’s efficiency and attracting donor support for recurrent
expenditures. Transparent budget preparation is key, and the PA – with technical
assistance from the Bank and other donors – has established upgraded budget systems
and successfully mapped the budget classifications to international classification
standards (i.e., the GFS standards). Whereas the new, more transparent classification has
been operationalized and accounts are comparable on an international basis, the GFS
classification was not ultimately used in the final presentation of the 2011 budget due to
political sensitivities implied by the changes. Despite improved efficiency and
accountability, transparency fell-short, and the target outcome was not met.

With respect to planning development expenditures, significant progress was achieved in
the 2011 budgeting process, with a bottom-up approach based on extensive consultation
with donors and line ministries. The resulting aggregated development budget was
deemed unrealistic, however, in light of past experience, and was ultimately scaled back.
The detailed underlying financial information for planned development expenditures no
longer aligned with the final development budget and therefore was not included as an
annex to the budget as planned. The fiscal framework for the 2011 budget did, however,
align fully with the recently adopted Palestinian National Plan 2011-2013 (the successor
to the PRDP), as laid out in the DPG III policy matrix under planned actions.

b. Establish upgraded institutional and regulatory PFM procedures
All line ministries are connected to the new computerized financial management system
(a prior action for DPG III). And the new budget module developed for the computerized
accounting system was used to prepare the 2011 budget (consistent with the planned
actions identified in the DPG III policy matrix). These advances together with the
modernized budget classification system and planning procedures implemented under
DPG III should have helped the PA to prepare the 2011 budget more quickly than in the
past. Whereas the detailed planning stages were completed in a timeframe consistent
with the targeted January approval date, delays arose as the broad budget parameters
were negotiated at the highest levels. As a result, the new budget was not adopted until
March 2011 (two months after the target date), reflecting no improvement in timing
compared to 2010. The delay not only impacts spending efficiency but also exacerbates
internal tensions that a well-functioning system seeks to minimize. The prospects for the
2012 budget are unclear, but delays in the 2012 budget cycle are already evidenced by the
delayed distribution of the budget circular to ministries. The PA indicates that this delay
is due to the difficulty of developing strategies to deal with the extreme fiscal challenges
currently facing the PA.




                                            14
c. Strengthen PFM infrastructure and improve auditing functions
The new module for commitment control that was introduced into the MoF’s
computerized accounting system (a DPG III prior action) enables the MoF to control all
purchase orders for capital expenditures. Whereas in the past ministries could purchase
items as long as they appeared in the budget, often resulting in arrears, the new system
requires MoF approval which is granted by making the necessary cash available to
transact the purchase. In practice, the MoF used the new module to restrict capital
expenditures in late 2010 and early 2011. But most capital expenditures in 2011 have
been to clear arrears from earlier periods. The system has been an effective tool, and the
targeted indicator was met. But the MoF has nevertheless condoned the emergence of
new arrears in light of donor disbursement delays.

DPG III and its predecessors have been instrumental in assisting the PA in implementing
active cash management through the well-functioning Central Treasury Account. But the
medium-term objective of a functioning cash planning system appears to remain out of
reach due to the continued uncertainty of donor aid flows. There is a sense that since it is
impossible to anticipate when donor disbursements will be made, the PA’s hands are tied
in terms of being able to plan cash availability to time expenditures. As a result,
expenditures remain lumpy (as illustrated by the recent payment delays in government
salaries) or spending proceeds nevertheless through the accumulation of arrears or
through additional domestic borrowing. Cash planning therefore remains a challenge for
the future.

With respect to accountability and auditing functions, the PA has continued to build on
previous efforts to introduce and comply with international auditing standards. As a prior
action for this operation, the PA’s 2008 financial statements were sent for external audit
by the State Audit and Administrative Control Board (SAACB). Auditing guidelines for
external audits were adopted in 2010, and Bank support under DPG III helped to leverage
technical assistance to the SAACB in terms of training and capacity building under the
auspices of a recently approved €4 million EU project based on a comprehensive needs
assessment completed in 2010 but refined in early 2011 during the inception phase of the
project. DPG III support also assisted the PA in preparing its 2009 financial statements
compliant with International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS). The audit of
the 2009 accounts was completed in early October 2011, and the MoF submitted the draft
2010 financial statements for audit in mid-September 2011, consistent with the Policy
Matrix planned actions and medium-term objectives.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating balances the degree to which overall program development
objectives were achieved and the extent to which target indicators were met. The policies
supported by DPG III clearly contributed to achieving the two overarching development
objectives and seven sub-objectives, as laid out in the program document’s reform matrix.
The PA’s fiscal position in 2010 was a marked improvement over 2009 (see the Central
Government Budget table below). Whereas the 2010 public sector wage bill exceeded
budget targets in nominal US dollar terms, non-wage expenditure (include social
                                              15
protection spending) was below the budget allocation. As a share of GDP, both the wage
bill and net lending were well-below target levels. The PA faces challenges in further
expanding domestic tax revenue, but important strides were made in increasing property
tax collections. Whereas the 2011 budget execution remained largely on track on the
expenditure side through the third quarter, revenue and donor aid shortfalls have given
rise to new arrears. The PA has made significant advances in improving the targeting,
coverage and efficiency of the social safety net. Building on the PFM reforms supported
by DPGs I and II, DPG III effectively helped to establish and embed transparency and
comparability (using international standards) in budget preparation, internal controls and
auditing functions. Among the seven specific sub-objectives, all were achieved.

                       Central Government Budget (US$ millions)
                                                             Actual     Budget Projected
                                       2008       2009        2010       2010    2011
Total Net Revenue                        1568       1597        1927       1927     2106
Tax revenue                               273        301         474        377      499
Non-tax revenue                           289        284         270        330      244
Clearance revenue                        1122       1103        1259       1320     1474
Tax refunds                               116         91          76        100      111

Total Expenditure and Net
Lending                                  2886       3190       3076        3170        3282
Wage expenditure                         1453       1467       1613        1550        1887
Non-wage expenditure                      985       1349       1227        1370        1235
Net lending                               447        374        236         250         160

Current Balance                         -1317       -1592      -1149      -1243       -1176

Development Expenditures                  215         430        299        670         400

Balance                                 -1532       -2022      -1448      -1913       -1576
Sources: MOF, IMF (2011 projections)

With respect to outcome indicators, performance was mixed. Of the nine indicators, five
were met and four were not met. One of the unmet indicators – indicator 4 related to the
commercialization of electricity distribution in the Northern West Bank – was the result
of delays rather than a change in strategy, and will require renewed focus at the central
level to achieve the next stage of progress. With respect to the new cash transfer program
PNCTP, targeting only extreme-poor households (indicator 5) was not met due to
unwillingness by the PA to cut off benefits immediately to poor and otherwise needy
recipients (i.e., those falling into the PA’s ―vulnerable‖ category). The PA has instead
opted for a phased approach. Internal political pressures were behind the decision to
retain the old budget presentation format despite the technical capacity to present it using



                                            16
the revised GFSM-consistent structure (indicator 7). This also contributed to delays in
the adoption of the 2011 budget (indicator 8).

The overall outcome rating is moderately satisfactory because the development objectives
were met, five of the nine outcome indicators were fully met, and of the four indicators
not met, they are expected to be met, albeit with some delay (delays are primarily
attributable to the challenging institutional setting, but may also be explained by a shift of
focus at the central level). Moreover, the operation is highly relevant and builds on – and
consolidates - past gains.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

This operation addresses poverty and welfare both indirectly – through more efficient use
of public resources – and directly – through measures to improve social safety net
targeting and electricity access. Through the updated proxy means test, over 100,000
households in the West Bank and 50,000 households in Gaza were verified to assess
eligibility for the PNCTP. This effort included the identification of 19,000 newly eligible
households in Gaza, implying a greatly expanded reach of MoSA assistance. Further
poverty alleviation was targeted through the introduction of progressive electricity tariffs,
with the lowest consumption bracket tariff, or ―lifeline‖ tariff, set equivalent to the
supplied cost in order to ensure minimum access by needy households.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

To achieve the objectives of strengthening the fiscal position and increasing government
transparency and accountability through improved public financial management, DPG III
was designed with an institutional focus. Measures to implement an integrated payroll
and human resource system and centralize public pension records will enable tighter
control over wage-related expenditure and hiring decisions. In a similar vein,
streamlining cash transfers under the PNCTP strengthens the institutional capacity of
MoSA to deliver assistance and improve targeting. Commercializing electricity
distribution is proving to be complex in part because of institutional deficiencies in local-
central government linkages; progress will require renewed efforts on the part of the
Ministry of Local Government and the municipalities themselves to reach agreement on
service transfer and compensation. These challenges also extend to PA efforts to expand
the reach of property taxes.

Whereas political uncertainties vis-à-vis sovereignty issues have impeded the
establishment of the full range of government functions, the PA continues to build its
institutional capacity. DPG III, particularly the public financial management reforms, has
helped the PA carry out its functions in a more transparent and accountable way that
makes more efficient use of public and donor resources. For example, upgrading the
budget preparation processes has strengthened capacity within the MoF as well as the
institutional links between the MoF and line ministries, and, when fully implemented,
will introduce a greater degree of transparency. The new computerized accounting

                                             17
system has been central to increasing MoF control over capital expenditures, and capacity
building and the development of guidelines related to audit functions demonstrate
progress in transparency and accountability which, over time, should elicit greater
confidence among citizens and the donor community, and help the PA to face medium-
term challenges more effectively.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

As stated in the Project Document, ―WBG is an unstable and high risk environment‖.
Sporadic violence and unpredictable but regular conflict and disruptions to economic
activity are not ideal implementing conditions for an ambitious reform agenda.
Nevertheless, the PA has made significant and sustained progress in implementing the
PRDP over the past several years. Despite advances, the PA is limited in its capacity to
finance government services in light of the severe constraints on revenue-raising options
and the anemic growth of the very small private sector.

Continued progress on the reform agenda will therefore require significant technical and
financial assistance from donors, particularly with respect to financing the recurrent
budget. By building its institutional capacity and strengthening public financial
management systems and accountability, the PA is addressing budgeting and fiscal
control issues that historically raised concerns among donors providing untied budget
support. Mitigation measures include channeling funds through the Central Treasury
Account which is subject to regular monitoring by the Bank and IMF and external audit,
improved budget procedures, and consolidated payroll and associated spending controls
and capital expenditure controls, inter alia. When policies are embedded in an
institutional framework they are harder to reverse. This is the case with the integrated
payroll system, net lending reforms, safety net targeting, and revised budget, accounting
and audit procedures.
The tenuous economic environment – as reflected in the slow recovery of economic
activity and continued high unemployment in the West Bank and Gaza Strip – is
vulnerable to mobility restrictions and closures imposed by the GoI. Security issues,
therefore, represent a central source of risk. The PA has strengthened its own security
efforts including measures to extend its security control in some problematic parts of the
West Bank through training new security personnel. But these improvements have not
heretofore led to any significant and sustained easing of mobility restrictions.

In the event of a dire deterioration in the security and economic environment, the reforms
supported by DPG III would be significantly undermined if donor assistance did not
materialize due to the resulting strain on recurrent expenditures, in turn threatening fiscal
discipline. Similarly, if mobility restrictions persist such that there is inadequate
breathing space for the private sector to generate broad-based economic growth, it will
become more difficult for the government to maintain public support for its ambitious
reform agenda.
                                             18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

DPG III was prepared in close consultation with the PA and stakeholders such as civil
society groups and international donors. The policy measures supported by DPG III were
selected in coordination with reforms being supported by other donors in order to
maximize the development impact and at the same time provide mutually reinforcing
mechanisms of support. This approach also succeeded in leveraging additional financial
support and providing positive signals to donors. The operation was conceived to help
bolster the PA’s public finance and institutional reform efforts.

The overall implementation and M&E arrangements were adequate. The operation was
prepared with an appreciation and sound articulation of the broad risks to program
outcomes, and identified mitigation measures to address these risks. Specific risks,
however – such as the institutional weaknesses that impeded the transfer of electricity
distribution to NEDCO within the targeted timeframe – could have been further
considered. DPG III retained the quarterly monitoring arrangements that are related to
the PRDP Trust Fund disbursements.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

As mentioned above, the operation’s design enabled broadly adequate monitoring and
evaluation. Most of the unmet outcome indicators were the result of political factors,
such that closer supervision would not likely have made a difference to actual outcomes.
The only policy area in which one might ask whether the Bank could have done more is
the transfer of electricity distribution to NEDCO. But given the number of players, the
complexity of compensation issues, and local pressures, it is unclear how the Bank could
have accelerated the process.

Monitoring arrangements are challenging to design given the short time-horizon of a
single-tranche DPL. But the embedded overlap with related Bank operations – namely
the Social Safety Net Reform Project and the Electric Utility Management Project – takes
advantage of synergies in supervision related to, for example, targeting the PNCTP and
tracking electricity fee collections. An ISR was not prepared during the operation’s
implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Quality at entry and quality of supervision were both satisfactory, making the overall
Bank performance rating satisfactory.



                                            19
5.2 Borrower Performance7
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The operation was designed to align fully with the PA’s objectives as laid out in its PRDP,
thereby ensuring government ownership and commitment. The operation’s development
objectives and the government’s strategy to achieve them were developed in close
consultation with stakeholders. Under DPG III, the PA achieved real progress, not only
in further consolidating its fiscal position and building institutional capacity to ensure
budget discipline, but also through extending safety net coverage to the most vulnerable
and strengthening accounting and financial management systems and auditing procedures,
which contribute to increased transparency and accountability.

It is important to recognize that the economic and security climate in WB&G remains
extremely hostile, however, and the ongoing split between Gaza and the West Bank
complicates policy decisions and reform implementation.          Mobility and access
restrictions inhibit private sector activity, and the associated lack of predictability
threatens macro stability and economic growth, and diminishes quality of life. It is
within this context that the PA is implementing its reform program, thus inhibiting its
effectiveness in building consensus on national reforms.

Whereas the Government has demonstrated progress is all of the policy development
objectives and sub-objectives, four outcome targets were not fully achieved. As
mentioned above, some delay was due to institutional shortcomings among the various
actors involved in the complex negotiation process for transferring electricity distribution
to NEDCO. On the other hand, the Government exhibited signs of wavering
commitment with respect to narrowing the PNCTP targeting eligibility to include only the
extreme poor, and with respect to the 2011 budget presentation format and timing. On
balance, borrower performance has been moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

1.      Reforms are possible even in the most difficult political environment. Despite the
extremely difficult political environment, the PA was able to steadily implement a reform
program. While the ultimate success of the PA depends upon a political solution and a
successful conclusion to the peace process, the nascent government was still able to build
the institutions required by a future state. The during implementation of the reforms
supported by this operation, the PA was distracted by a number of pressing issues,
including reconciliation talks with the government in Gaza and continuing negotiations
over continuing the peace process. However, because the DPG had carefully chosen
technical areas of reform, progress did not stall. As the reform agenda becomes more
difficult it is important that future operations continue to support select reforms that are



7
       For a Development Policy Grant providing budget support, the borrower consists of the
government, which also acts as the implementing agency.

                                            20
important and will push the PA to do more that it might otherwise, but are also possible
given the political environment.

2.      Complex reforms are best done in stages. The multi-stage program for
strengthening PFM through establishing new accounting and budgeting systems and
implementing them centrally and across line ministries involves technical design stages,
piloting, training, and roll-out. The reforms began with the creation of a functional
accounting system, which in the next stage was extended beyond its initial function of
recording transactions to its use as a control mechanism. This control capability will be
extended in the next stage to facilitate management decisions at the central level on
resource allocation in line with priorities and reform objectives. The Palestinian
experience with PFM reform has shown that gradually building on prior reforms,
broadening their application and deepening their use over an extended period is an
effective approach to institutionalizing complex reforms.

3.       Keep your eye on the broad objective. The risk of the multi-stage approach to
complex reforms is that the broad objective may get lost while focusing on the technical
steps of the initial stages. Paying inadequate attention to sequencing reforms and linking
the technical and strategic planning functions risks undermining technical progress. This
was illustrated by the 2011 budget preparation process in which the detailed groundwork
on budget preparation was successfully completed by the line ministries, but with
insufficient upstream input on budget envelopes from the central ministries, which
themselves are the product of political decision-making. As a result, the draft budget was
revised – and significantly delayed – to accommodate the broad budget targets that were
eventually negotiated at the central level. A review of budget process sequencing should
reflect the interface of these political and technical tensions earlier in the process.

4.      Anchor reforms in institutionalized processes. When reforms are driven by
individuals rather than by agencies or institutions, there is a risk of losing momentum or
even backtracking when individuals leave. In WB&G, as in many other developing
countries, a small number of civil servants tends to carry the load of the reform process.
Anchoring reforms through linkages at the technical and institutional levels can help
sustain reforms despite changes in personnel.

5.      Multi-donor cooperation yields a bigger reform impact. This operation
successfully leveraged contributions from the EU, the UK’s DFID and other donors, not
only through financial assistance but – perhaps more importantly – through technical
assistance to support reforms. The result was to reinforce the PA’s reform efforts from
multiple angles.

6.     Political will at the highest levels is needed to maintain reform momentum.
Whereas important progress has been made in shifting electricity distribution to
commercial entities such as NEDCO in the northern West Bank, progress has been
impeded by delays in the complex negotiation process between the central government
and over 200 local government entities (municipal councils, village councils and project
committees). These delays might be mitigated by stronger political commitment at the

                                           21
central level. For example, the transfer of distribution in Nablus and Jenin to NEDCO
was achieved with substantial input from the MoF and MoLG during negotiations with
these large municipalities. But subsequent negotiations with other municipalities, even
the large municipalities of Tulkarm and Qalqiliya, were undermined by uncertainty in the
timing of municipal elections, which complicated the issue of identifying a counterpart
for negotiations, and rendered the process a political issue in local elections.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

N/A




                                          22
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
Names                      Title                              Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Mark Eugene Ahern          Senior Public Sector Specialist       MNSPS
Maha Muhammad Bali         Program Assistant                     MNC04
Sabine W. Beddies          Sr. Social Scientist                  MNSSO
John L. Nasir              Lead Private Sector Development Spec. MNSFP     Task team leader
Nikolai Soubbotin          Sr. Counsel                           LEGEM
Steve W. Wan Yan Lun       Operations Analyst                    MNSFP
Husam Beides               Sr. Energy Specialist                 MNSEG
Gustavo Demarco            Sr. Economist                         MNSSP
Soraya Goga                Sr. Urban Development Specialist      MNSUR
Samira Hillis              Sr. Operations Officer                MNSSP
Supervision
Elizabeth Ruppert Bulmer   Sr. Country Economist                 LCSPE       ICR leader
John L. Nasir              Lead Private Sector Development Spec. MNSFP
Steve W. Wan Yan Lun       Operations Analyst                    MNSFP
Mark Eugene Ahern          Senior Public Sector Specialist       MNSPS
Husam Beides               Sr. Energy Specialist                 MNSEG
Samira Hillis              Sr. Operations Officer                MNSSP
Soraya Goga                Sr. Urban Development Specialist      MNSUR



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage                                                         USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY10                                             12.3                       62.9
FY11                                              4.1                       20.2
 Total:                                          16.4                       83.1
Supervision/ICR
FY11                                              4.6                       18.5
FY12                                              3.5                       14.6
 Total:                                           8.1                       33.1




                                            23
     Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

NA




                     24
     Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

NA




                           25
     Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Evaluation of the DPG III “Development Policy Grant?
By the Palestinian National Authority

Project background, design and objectives:

When the Caretaker Government headed by Dr. Salam Fayyad was appointed in June
2007, the Government faced a large deficit and a significant stock of arrears to PNA
employees and private sector suppliers. Therefore, the Government was determined to
move aggressively toward strengthening the PNA`s fiscal position and improving public
financial management. After a successful episode of implementing the Palestinian
Recovery and Development Plan (PRDP 2008-2010), the caretaker government put
forward the new National Development Plan (NDP 2011-2013). Under the earlier PRDP
2008-2010, the caretaker government set out towards restoring the basic operating
systems of the PA while reforming and creating stronger public institutions that will form
the basis of a future Palestinian state. The current NDP 2011-2013 aims to move the PA
fiscal and institutional performance beyond recovery and towards sustainability, by
gradually reducing dependence on foreign assistance while continuing to improve the
welfare of citizens.

The Palestinian Authority’s ambitious two-year program ―Palestine: Ending the
Occupation, Establishing the State‖, presented on August 25, 2009. There has been
substantial progress in implementing the program’s goals and policies, centering on the
objective of building strong state institutions. As a certificate of success in the
implementing the two years plan, both the Bank and the IMF in the AHLC meeting in
April, 2011 considered that the PA is now able to conduct the sound economic policies
expected of a future well-functioning Palestinian state, given its solid track record in
reforms and institution-building in the public finance and financial areas

The PNA requested much of the aid in unrestricted budget support in order to achieve its
goals of strengthening its fiscal position and improving its financial management. The
World Bank responded positively and established the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (PRDP-
TF). It also mobilized the donors to use this TF to provide the PNA with untied budget
support through its own Central Treasury Account (CTA). The Bank has also provided
direct budget support through the Development Policy Grant (DPG). The grant helped
finance the PNA recurrent expenditures deficit and, because of its demonstration effect
with other donors, encouraged them to contribute financing to the CTA as well.

The main objective of the Trust Fund was to facilitate the flow of budgetary support to
the PNA by enhancing accountability and developing the financial administration of the
PNA within the broader framework of national reform. Disbursements from the TF were
made in compliance with specific prior actions which had been outlined in the project
Policy Matrix. These prior actions were formulated by the Ministry of Finance in
consultation with the Bank and aimed at adopting specific reforms to move forward

                                           26
toward fiscal sustainability. The PNA believes that such comprehensive Bank
involvement helped mobilize otherwise reluctant donors to support the PNA reform plan
and provide budget support.

PNA Performance:

Our objective of moving towards fiscal sustainability and reducing our dependence on
external budget support has been complicated in 2011 by the slowdown in economic
activity. While the 2011 Budget assumed a real rate of growth of 9%, the West Bank
which presently contributes 98% of our revenues is not expected to grow by more than
4.5% this year. As a result, there has been a shortfall in gross revenues relative to the
budget targets. In 2010 we made substantial progress in strengthening our domestic
capacity in revenue collection, domestic tax revenue increased by 50% over collections in
2009, well exceeding their budget target. The strong domestic tax revenue collection in
2010 didn't continue in 2011 due to the slowdown in the economic activities; the growth
rate in 2011 in the West Bank was nearly half the growth rate in 2010.On the positive
side, those budget targets which the PNA can control—wage bill, nonwage expenditure,
and net lending—are expected to be met by year end.

Two measures were taken by the PNA to increase domestic tax collection: first is the
establishment of the Customs Court of Appeal in accordance with the provision of the
Customs Law to handle disputes related to customs duties and the value added tax on
imported goods. Second is the new income tax law which was signed by the President in
October 2011. This law added more flexibility to the cabinet authority to change the tax
rates as well as adding taxes on interest earned on deposits and taxes on real estate
transactions to the income tax categories which will generate more revenues to the PNA
treasury. The impact of these measures will be seen in 2012.

Despite all the obstacles facing the PNA, especially the continued deterioration in the
political environment and intensification of Israeli restrictions on movement and access,
the PNA has succeeded in reducing its fiscal deficit in 2010 by four percentage points of
GDP compared to 2008 while maintaining a consistent level of expenditure and
investment in the social sectors, and promoting a more investor-friendly environment for
the private sector. The recurrent deficit on a cash basis was below the budget ceiling

MOF has established a new Public Financial Management System (PFMS) in order to
ensure that government resources are managed in a transparent and accountable manner.
Under this PFMS, all domestic revenues, clearance revenues, fees, charges, and income
have accrued from ministries and autonomous agencies, to the Central Treasury Account
(CTA). This system has also provided tighter controls on expenditures, by recording all
expenditure operations, checking them against budgetary appropriations, and internal
financial controls.

The initial focus of the Caretaker Government was on ensuring that cash controls were
operating effectively, while more recently attention has been given to improving the



                                           27
budget preparation procedures, and the accounting and reporting of government
expenditures.

In terms of financing, both for budget support and for development expenditures, the
CTA system has provided robust financial controls, a centralized monitoring of
development expenditures and full accounting of this external assistance.

An essential component of the PFMS was the establishment in the Ministry of Finance of
a macroeconomic projection and fiscal analysis unit. The unit has drafted a Plan of
Action to clearly define its objectives and staff requirements. Staff recruitment, including
the unit’s director, is expected before the end of the year. In another significant step, the
PNA’s financial statements for 2009 have been audited by the State Audit and
Administrative Control Bureau. The audit was finalized in August 2011.

MoF presented the draft 2010 financial statements to the SAACB in September 2011.The
SAACB will attempt to complete the audit of the statement within the six month limit to
allow a catch up in the regular audit cycle. It is hoped that this will allow the audit of the
2011 financial statements to be completed on a more timely basis –possibly approaching
the international practice of having these completed within six months of the year-end.
The PNA has also promoted reforms in the social sphere by better targeting social
assistance. This included a full updating of its database to support a more transparent and
objective identification of beneficiaries. The PNA has also initiated a process of merging
the various on-going cash assistance programs using the MoSA poverty targeting
database as the main mechanism for streamlining the cash assistance program across the
various donor institutions (EU, and UN organizations). In early 2009, the PA cabinet
approved the merger of the EU-funded SHC and the World Bank-funded SSNRP
program into a Palestinian National Cash Transfer Program (PNCTP) administered by
MoSA. In 2011, MoSA conducted home visits and verified data in the data base to ensure
that all the targeted households are below the absolute poverty line. It has been
recertifying households in both Gaza and the West Bank. The target for 2012 is to have
70,000 households registered under the unified system.

Outcome of the reforms against agreed objectives:
Prior actions which have been laid out in the PRDP-Policy Matrix, and highlighted in its
Letter of Development Policy (LDP), focussed on two policy areas supported by the
grant: (1) strengthening the PNA fiscal position and (2) improving public financial
management.

1) Strengthening the fiscal position:

Wage Bill:
The PNA has managed to control the wage bill during 2010. The public sector wage bill
in 2010 was 20% of GDP as opposed to 24% of GDP in 2009. The public work force had
reached 150,400 by the end of December 2010 which is consistent with limiting the
annual net increase in PNA employment to 3,000 hires, as stated in the PRDP, to achieve
fiscal sustainability.

                                             28
The wage bill during the first three quarters of 2011 is within the budget target on an
annual basis. When compared to the first half of 2010 the wage bill increased by 6.2%.
This is slightly higher than what was programmed in the budget, which was predicted on
a 6% salary increase, including the 3.5% cost of living allowance, 1.25% which is the
annual increase and a 1.25% increase in employment planned for 2011. Employment of
public sector employees rose by about 2400 during the first three quarters of 2011 and is
expected to remain well within the 3,000 benchmark for net employment increase.

Public Pension System:
Regarding Pension Reform, a technical assistance mission from the World Bank was held
on November 1, 2010.The main objectives of the mission was to support the Ministry of
finance and Palestinian Pension Agency colleagues as they proceed with the
implementation of the PNA's pension reform action plan. The mission discussed policy
options for the first and second pillar of pension reform, as well as disability and
survivorship pension issues. Following the discussion a revised action plan to amend the
public pension system was approved by the Council of Ministers this year to reduce short
term liabilities, thereby contributing to fiscal adjustment, and to make the Public Pension
System sustainable over the longer run. Provisions of this action plan include the
gradual increase in the retirement age from 60 to 65 and indexing pension payments to
the CPI instead of to the yearly wage increases. In implementing the provisions in the
Action Plan regarding new entrants to the pension system, purchase by new entrants to
the pension system of additional years of contribution to ensure pension eligibility has
been eliminated.

Net Lending:
Since the PNA has taken actions to increase collection rates, in parallel with reducing
debt to the IEC and strengthening the institutional environment for electricity distribution
and bill collection. PNA been steadily reducing the yearly subsidy to municipalities on
the utilities account, from $ 447 million in 2008 (7.3% of GDP) to 2.9% of GDP in 2010
and projected at (1.7% of GDP) $ 160 million in 2011. This remarkable adjustment over
the last three years, equivalent to 5.6 percentage points of GDP, has been essentially
achieved through two measures: following up with municipalities and assisting them in
their bill collection efforts, including through the installation of a growing number of pre
paid meters, and vesting the Gaza Electricity Distribution Company with full
responsibility in covering the fuel needs of the Gaza Electricity Generation Company.

A) Increasing collection performance

The MOF has started working with local government officials to increase the collection
rate in the West Bank by 90%, to achieve this target; MoF has taken the following
measures:
      Requiring a certificate of payment for electricity bills from subscribers when they
        seek government services.
      Requesting all cities and villages to reschedule their debts to MoF.
      The municipalities and villages councils are paying monthly electricity debts to
        the Ministry of Finance and the monthly invoice to the IEC. Almost 80% of the

                                            29
      municipalities and villages councils fulfilled their commitment to MoF in paying
      their debts.
     Progress in bill collection has been reflected in the decline of net lending during
      the first half 2011 by 43% compared to the first half 2010.
     Each utility and municipality was requested to design an Action Plan for
      increasing bill collection. These Action Plans have been submitted to MoF.
     MoF deducted certain percentages from PNA employees’ salaries for repayment
      of their electricity debts.

  B) Institutional Reforms

The Electricity Law was approved by the Council of Ministers and sent to the President
for ratification. Two fundamental changes have taken place:
      i. Electricity distribution and bill collection in the Northern West Bank have been
         shifted to NEDCO, a commercial electricity distribution company. NEDCO
         issued its first bills to the city of Nablus in July 2011 and has now integrated into
         its system the electricity distribution and bill collection for Tulkarem and Anabta.
         This process will gradually cover the entire Northern West Bank over the next six
         months. The medium term objective is to convert all electricity distribution in the
         West Bank to a commercial basis.
     ii. In the interest of guiding the Palestinian Energy Regulatory Commission (PERC)
         in its regulation of the sector and ensuring efficiency of distributor operations,
         PERC has set performance targets, developed by the Palestinian Energy
         Authority, for West Bank electricity distribution companies on financial and
         technical performance and the utilities will prepare, and PEA and the Cabinet will
         approve by the end of 2011, action plans to meet these targets.
    iii. A new electricity tariff has been issued on June 27, 2011 with ascending rates per
         KW, depending on consumption levels, to protect the most vulnerable groups in
         the population.
      PEA installed 214,000 prepaid meters by end of November 2011. The PEA has
          finalized the first phase of installing the prepaid meters.

Social Safety Net:

The Ministry of Social Affairs together with the World Bank and the European
Commission have been integrating their databases and unifying their targeting criteria for
social safety net eligibility.

The European Union (EU) funded Special Hardship Case (SHC) and the World Bank
funded the program under the Social Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP). Together,
these two programs provide over US$ 50 million annually to roughly 57,000 poor
households.

SSNRP and SHC merged into one system (databases and eligibility requirements
merged).


                                             30
Over the last year, the social safety net benefited from merging the cash assistance
program and the Social Safety Net Reform Program into the PNCTP. In Gaza 10,000
additional households have received payments to raise the number of beneficiaries in line
with the latest PCBS poverty statistics. The Ministry of Social Affairs staff has expanded
its field visits to recertify households under absolute poverty. The target over the next
year is to have 70,000 households registered under the unified system. The PNA aims at
establishing a robust Social Protection Reform and Integration Program under which all
vulnerable households are registered under the same criteria and all payments are effected
under the same procedures and modalities.
Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA) has disbursed several payments during 2011 for
around 25,716 households of US$200 each from the Global Crises Response Trust Fund.
The ministry also paid the regular payments for 5,000 households from the SSNRP
Additional Financing.MoSA has implemented the Cash Transfer Program (CTP) during
2011.

Municipalities Financial Transparency and Accountability:

The Ministry of Local Government (MOLG), in association with the Municipal
Development and Lending Fund had two overriding objectives: To consolidate small
municipalities into more efficient entities and to undertake a financial and accounting
system reform for 132 municipalities.
     An operational manual has been delivered in June 2009, detailing municipal
       merger programs. There were initially 425 municipalities, and local government
       units, mostly village councils, before this process began, and the objective is to
       reduce them to 174 by end 2014. s.
     By end of 2010 MOLG announced the amalgamation of four clusters of Local
       Government Units (LGUs) and municipalities. Small, unviable LGUs have been
       consolidated into more efficient and sustainable Joint Service Councils (JSC).
       This amalgamation enhances the capacity of local governments to raise revenues
       at lower costs and to deliver services to their communities. An integrated
       Financial Management Information System has been installed and is being
       implemented by 35 pilot municipalities accounting for the bulk of West Bank
       population. The process of financial reform includes unifying the chart of
       accounts for all pilot municipalities and undertaking fixed assets.

A financial Policies and Procedures Manual has been prepared. It covers in detail all the
financial policies and procedures which should be followed by municipalities in
preparing their budgets and in processing all their financial Municipalities will also shift
their accounting basis from cash accounting to modified accrual accounting. Once this
process of financial reform is completed by end 2012, municipalities will have the same
chart of accounts and budget classification as well as the same accounting Summary
outcomes for MoLG achievements:

      31 West Bank municipalities have initiated the transition from cost accounting to
       accrual basis using new financial management information system.


                                            31
      Improved municipal revenue sources by increased property tax collection from 25
       to 34 municipalities.
      Re-evaluated the property taxes for 15 of the 25 municipalities that already had a
       property tax registry which increased their tax revenue.

2) Improving Public Financial Management (PFM):

Public Financial Management:
The PA continues to have Public Financial Management (PFM) reforms at the top of the
government’s reform agenda. There has been considerable progress with several areas of
strength, although there remain weaker areas where the reforms are underway and need to
be further developed and enhanced. PFM reforms are pillars of the proposed DPG series.
The DPG sets out to provide a development policy grant to the PA which will be
executed through the Government’s PFM systems.

To improve efficiency and transparency of the budget preparation process, a new
economic and administrative classification, based on the IMF’s GFSM, has been used for
the preparation of the 2010 and 2011 budget. In addition to this ―best practice‖
classification, the 2012 budget will fully integrate development projects in its
classification and will provide detailed financial information on all major development
expenditure expected to be disbursed during the year. Transparency is being further
enhanced by the addition to the monthly reports posted on the MoF website, a table
detailing expenditure on development projects and sources of financing.

Producing annual budgets in a transparent manner is a key component of the reform
program. The MOF developed a new budget classification for the preparation of the
2011 budget that is aligned with the economic classification based on the IMF’s
Government Financial Statistics Manual GFSM 2001 structure.8 The PA has also made
progress with introducing a program focus to the budget. This initiative started in 2009
with a programmatic presentation of the budget but in 2011 it was extended to the
execution phase of the budget. The reform is still at an early stage and further
improvements are expected in future budgets.

According to the Bank, IMF, and other donors’ reports on PFM, including the fiduciary
report on PFM assessment conducted during the appraisal of this operation, the
Palestinian PFM system is deemed to be adequate insofar as the Bank’s criteria and
standards for approval of development policy operations are concerned. The 2004 CFAA
had concluded that the fiduciary risk level in the Palestinian PFM system was significant
due to weaknesses in the PFM systems. Recent IMF and Bank reports state that the PA’s
PFM system has improved considerably since then.




                                           32
   Notable improvements in PFM include the following:

   1. Launch of the new financial management information system that will help
   consolidate budget implementation processes, strengthen payment controls and improve
   fiscal reporting. This system has been rolled out to line ministries.
   2. Transformation of line ministry and agency bank accounts into zero-balance accounts.
   3. All PA revenues are now paid into the CTA.
   4. An orderly system of budgetary appropriation is now in force.
   5. MOF is exercising firm control over budget expenditures, has imposed strict limits on
   non-wage expenditures and makes adjustments as needed, with funds often being
   released by MOF on a daily basis.
6. Since the MOF established its financial controllers in each ministry, the controllers have
   gained considerable experience and credibility within the line ministries.
7. MOF established a central internal audit function, which initially compensated for the
   weakness in external audit. With the creation of the State Audit and Administrative
   Control Bureau (SAACB) in 2007, the internal audit department’s role has evolved in
   line with international standards and is now in the process of being decentralized from
   MOF to the line ministries.
8. The SAACB is also receiving substantial technical support to develop its capacity as an
   external audit agency.
9. Control over the civil service payroll has improved significantly. MOF has taken charge
   of the central payroll system from the General Personnel Council (GPC, the PA’s central
   personnel agency), and is now in a position to monitor new recruitment and pay all public
   sector salaries, and thereby to contain civil service hiring.
10. Since 2005 the salaries of the PA’s civil and security servants have been paid through
   direct deposit into personal employee bank accounts.
11. The establishment of the Palestine Investment Fund (PIF) has brought all PA equity
   holdings, including virtually all state-owned enterprises (SOEs), within a centralized and
   commercially-oriented management framework. PIF has annually been publishing its
   annual report and audited financial statements (for 2003 and after), and these are
   available on its website.

   Financial Accounting System:
   MoF has established a General Accounting Department (GAD) in the West Bank which
   has made considerable progress in the reform of its accounting practices since 2007,but
   recognizes that further developments is needed in a number of key steps:

   1- The GAD has committed to carry out an assessment of the Palestinian Authority’s
      preparedness to adopt the the accrual accounting standards of International Public
      Sector Accounting Standards(IPSAS).The work is expected to be completed before

                                               33
   the end of the year. A program of activities has been developed to position the MoF
   for the move to accrual reporting.
2- The World Bank will provide MoF with examples of fixed asset policies from other
   countries to guide the nascent work in this area. Once a fixed asset policy is adopted
   by the MoF, it will need to initiate an inventory and valuation of PA assets, and work
   with the software developers to prepare a fixed assists modules for the accounting
   system.

New computerized accounting system:
The PA has developed a new payroll system and piloted its use in two ministries, with
plans to roll out the new system to all ministries in the next year. All line ministries have
been connected to the new computerized financial management system. In particular,
expenditure management was enhanced since 2010 through the integration of the
Commitment Control System into the Financial Management Information System. This
automatically prevents expenditure commitments by line ministries to exceed amounts
under ―purchase orders‖ authorized by MoF. The more accurate and comprehensive
information on purchase orders and actual expenditures has enabled MoF to prioritize
expenditure commitments in the light of liquidity shortages. This has contained the
accumulation of arrears in both operational expenditure and transfers. All purchase orders
for capital expenditures have also been subjected to MoF controls, resulting in a
substantial decline in these purchases to counteract some of the financial difficulties
which we have recently experienced.

Cash and Debt Management:
With the establishment of the Cash and Debt Management Department, the PA can
forecast cash requirements on a monthly basis. Provided the donor community responds
with timely transfers of the required budget support, in line with the unit’s forecasts, this
unit can make substantial progress in minimizing the buildup of payment arrears.

All zero balance accounts were opened in the Bank of Palestine in 2008. In June 2009,
MoF successfully started to deal with the zero balance accounts with the line ministries:
374 accounts had been closed by end-September 2011.

The cash management department can determine the cash ceiling for each line ministry;
this provides MoF control in managing the zero balance accounts.

The internal audit department at MoF:
In 2011 the Internal Audit Department in MoF has completed the risk assessment and
financial auditing for 4 departments within the Ministry: Petroleum Authority, Property
Tax, Payroll, General Supplies, Also, the internal audit department at MoF has issued
final audit reports on the Ministry of National Economy, Ministry of Social Affairs, and
Bureau of the Chief Justice.

EU has supported three units in line ministries (Health, PW, and N.E.) in the current year.
Two more units were established in Ministry of Local Government and MoPAD with
partial help form EU. There are also four other units established at Ministry of Detainees,

                                             34
Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Labour. Three more
units were established in 2011 year in ministry of interior affairs, water authority and
Ministry of Education and Higher Education.


Establish a comprehensive public procurement system:

A major achievement in public financial management reform in 2011 has been the
enactment of a Public Procurement Law in July 2011. This is the culmination of a long
process which began in 2005, and which has benefitted all along from World Bank
support and assistance, but which also included all stakeholders and members of the civil
society. Implementing regulations are now being drafted. The Higher Council for Public
Procurement Policies will be established to lay down uniform and consistent policy, rules
and procedures, and ensure efficient oversight of public procurement. This Council will
have a Chairman and eight members to be appointed by the Council of Ministers, four of
whom will be representatives of key ministries and the other four specialists in public
procurement. All public purchases, including those by Municipal Councils, will be
subject to the Law.

Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation:

The close consultation process between the PNA, the Bank and other key donors has
contributed to a timely and orderly implementation of the reform agenda.

The Bank works closely with the IMF and other donors to support the PA’s
implementation of the NDP. The Bank consults with the IMF when it issues quarterly
reports assessing the PA’s progress on implementing the NDP. To enable this, the IMF
team was closely involved in the development of the policy matrices for the Bank’s
DPGs including DPG III. In WBG, the IMF and World Bank have a complementary
division of labor and constantly share information and consult on policy advice to the PA.
The IMF monitors the macro framework and helps the PA produce accurate and timely
accounts. The Bank also monitors the overall macro environment, but it concentrates on
helping the PA address the underlying structural issues such as what is driving net
lending, transfer payments or pension arrears.

The IMF has resumed full contact with the PA following the establishment of the
Caretaker Government in June 2007 and is providing technical assistance on a variety of
issues. The IMF helped the PA produce the macroeconomic framework used in the NDP
and continues to work with them to regularly update the macro-economic projections.
The IMF also provides technical assistance to strengthen public financial management
and in doing so works closely with the Bank’s resident PFM expert and draws on
analytical work done for the Bank’s Public Expenditure Review. The IMF is providing
technical assistance to the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS) to help them
develop better basic statistics. Here again, the Bank and the IMF collaborate closely.
Good basic economic data is essential to monitor progress of the PRDP reforms.
Therefore, the Bank has provided funding to support building the capacity of the PCBS.
                                           35
In this effort, the Bank is coordinating closely with the IMF statistics team to identify
exactly how the funds are best utilized.

The Bank, through the PRDP-TF, has contributed in reducing the PNA fiscal gap by
providing donors an efficient mechanism to channel external budget support. This
mechanism provided the donors with assurances that their funds would be closely
monitored, which encouraged them to redirect their pledges from idle development
balances to budget support. The bank has also shown its trust in the PNA’s financial
controls when it provided the PNA with budget support through "PRDP DPG".


Lessons learned:

Three lessons can be learned from the experience of working closely with donors on
capacity building, achieving fiscal sustainability and attaining greater transparency and
accountability:
   The political paralysis in terms of negotiations with the GoI has created great
    uncertainty, undermined private sector investment and has reduced economic growth
    in the West Bank. This makes the reform process more difficult to sustain.
    Nevertheless, the PNA is accelerating its efforts at fiscal retrenchment but runs the
    risk of increasing dissatisfaction with the perpetuation of the occupation regime.

  There has been no easing of restrictions in the West Bank and the siege on Gaza is
   fully maintained. Area C continues to be beyond Palestinian sovereignty, limiting
   private sector development potential. This may undermine further institution building.
   The GoI should cooperate in easing restrictions, allowing exports from Gaza, sharing
   data on trade with the PNA to eliminate the revenue leakage in clearance revenues
   and allow institution building and rehabilitation in East Jerusalem, particularly
   schools, hospitals and clinics

  Fiscal and expenditure policy have been on track in 2010 and during the first half of
   2011. The PNA recurrent deficit in 2010 amounted to US$1.15 billion, substantially
   lower than the US$1.59 billion recorded in 2009. However, in the first half of 2011
   the recurrent budget deficit was slightly higher than the budget target due to the
   shortfall of revenues caused by the slowdown in the economic activities in the West
   Bank.




                                           36
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

 NA




                               37
                     Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents



―NEDCO Presentation to WB Energy Mission 19-23 July 2010‖, presentation by the
     Northern Electricity Distribution Company to the World Bank energy sector
     mission, July 2010.

―Recent Experience and Prospects of the Economy of the West Bank and Gaza: Staff
      Report Prepared for the Meeting of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee‖, International
      Monetary Fund, September 18, 2011.

―The Palestinian Cash Transfer Program: PMTF Targeting Assessment and Way
      Forward‖, presentation by Phillippe Leite (HDNSP, World Bank) to the Ministry
      of Social Affairs, Ramallah, West Bank, June 8, 2011.




                                         38
                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33512R1
                                                                                                                                                                To                         35°30'E
                                                                                                              35°00'E                                         Nazareth

               WEST BANK                                                                                                           To Haifa

               AND GAZA
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                        32°30'N                                                                                                                                   32°30'N
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                       Yamoun
                                                                                                                                                                    Jenin
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                    Ya'bad
                                                                                                                                 Kaffeen
                 RAILROAD                                                                                                                                      Qabatia

                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949                                                                                                     JENIN
                 NO-MAN’S LAND AREAS,
                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949                                                  To Netanya               TULKARM
                                                                                                                                      Anapta                                     Tubas
                                                                                                                        Tulkarm                                                          TUBAS
                 JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY                                                                                                                               Tammun
                 EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
                 THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980                                                                                                             Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                        (940 m)
                 GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                          Nablus
                                                                                                   Qalqilyah
                 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY                                                                               QALQILYAH                              NABLUS
                                                                                           To                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Tel Aviv                                                                                                                    Um Qais
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 SALFIT
                                              34°30'E                                                                                     Salfit   West




                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                               Jordan Rive
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                       To
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                      Ramla
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JORDAN
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
32°00'N
                                                                                       To
                                                                                    Tel Aviv
                                                                                                                                                   Bank                                                        To 32°00'N
                                                                                                                                                                 Tall Asur                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                                 (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                       RAMALLAH                                          JERICHO

                                                                                                                                                     Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Amman
                                                                                                                                                                                           Jericho
           Mediterranean
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                           Sea                                                                                                                                                                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM


                                                                                                       To                                           Bethlehem
                                                                                                     Ashdod
                                                                          ISRAEL
                                                                                                                                                      BETHLEHEM
                                                                To
                                                             Tel Aviv
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                               Ashqelon                                                                                   Dead
                              JABALYA
                                    Beit Lahia                                                                                        (1,020 m)                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                     Hebron
                           Gaza City
                                                 Jabalya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31°30'N
                      GAZA CITY                                                                                                   HEBRON
   Gaza Nusejrat
                                                           To                                                                       Yattah
DEIR EL BALAH                     El Bureij             Beersheba
           Deir el Balah                                                                                          Zohar

      KHAN
      YUNIS
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                      Khan                                                                                                                                               Zofar
                      Yunis                                                          To
                                                                                  Beersheba
              Rafah
                           RAFAH                                                                                                                                                                JORDAN
                Abu 'Awdah
   To           (105 m)
El Arish
                  To                          WEST BANK
                  Elat                        AND GAZA

 ARAB                                                                                                     0        5        10     15 Kilometers

REP. OF
EGYPT                                                                                                     0             5            10            15 Miles

31°00'N                                                                                                                                                                                                           31°00'N

                                              34°30'E                                                           35°00'E                                                                     35°30'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUNE 2007
