Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9014
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1006-SU)
SEPTEMBER 19, 1990
-gy Operations Division
it II
)ffice
tricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =          3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)            =          10.75 square feet
1 kilometer (km)               =          0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)       =          0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (m3)             =          35.3 cubic meter
1 kilovolt (kV)                =          1000 volts
1 kilowatt (kW)                =          1000 watts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)                     1000 watt hours
1 megawatt (MW)                =          1000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)          =          1 million kilowatt hours
1 megavolt ampere (MWA)        =          1 kilovolt ampere
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AGP       -          Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners (UK)
BMZ       -          (Bundesministerium fuer Wirtschaftliche
Zusammenarbeit) Ministry of Economic Cooperation
(FRG)
BNG       -          Blue Nile Grid
EM        -          Executive Manager
ESB       -          Electricity Supply Board (Ireland)
KfW       -          Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (FGR)
LDC       -          Load Despatch Center
LI        -          Lahmeyer International
LSD       -          Sudanese Pounds
LSTG      -          Pour4 Sterling
MML       -          Merz & McLellan (UK)
NEC       -          National Electricity Corporation
ODA       -          Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PEWC      -          Public Electricity and Water Corporation
PD        -          Project Director
PM        -          Project Manager
P/S       -          Power Station
SAR       -          Staff Appraisal Report
SRC       -          Sudan Railways Corporation
S/S       -          Substation



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
TH( WORLD BlANK
Washington DC 20433
USA
Otlce of Dietn-"Wal
O1K nU D,.tw.Cafw n
0ppotrwis Ivakiatrnn
September 19, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTCRS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Sudan
Third Power Project (Credit 1006-SU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Sudan - Third Power Project (Credit 1006-SU)" prepared by
the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SUDAN                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1006-SU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   ..........................                                         .       i
EVALUATION SUMMARY    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     ii
PART I
1.    PROJECT IDENTITY         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                1
2.    BACKGROUND                                                                1
3.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION              . . . . . . . .           2
-  Project Objectives    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    2
-  Project Description          . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              2
4.    PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION    . . . . . . . . . .                    5
5.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION           . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              6
-  Project Execution and Implementation    . . . . . .                   7
-  Project Costs         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                8
-  Allocation of Credit Proceeds             . . . . . . . . .            8
6.    PROJECT RESULTS    ....  .           .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
-  Operational and Physical Results    . . . . . . . .                    8
-  Economic Return         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                9
-  Financial Performance           . . . . . . . . . . . . .            10
-  Billing and Collection    . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  11
-  Accounting and Audit    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  12
7.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY           . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             12
8.    BANK PERFORMANCE                                                         13
9.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              13
10.   PROJECT RELATIONSHIP          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              13
11. CONSULTING SERVICES .14
-  Staff Development and Training    . . . . . . . . .                  14
12.   PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND REPORTING    . . . . . . . .                   14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



'.able of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
PART II
Retrospective Assessment of Project Implementation from the
Borrower's Perspective         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
PART III
1.  KEY PROJECT DATA         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
2.  PROJECT DATES    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
-  Cumulative Disbursements    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
-  Staff Input        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
3.  MISSION DATA        .............................................              20
4.  SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
5.  PROJECT COST ESTIMATE    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
6.  COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
7.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (FY83-86)            . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24



i
SUDAN THIRD POWER PROJEC"'
(CREDIT 1006-SU.
IAOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This report covers the Third Power Project in Sudan supported by Credit
1006-SU. The credit US$65.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Sudan was
approved on April 17, 1980, became effective on August 14, 1980 aald was closed
on December 31, 1987 after allowing two extensions of one year each
(originally closing date was December 31, 1985). Disbursements continued
until September 30, 1988 to allow payment of all pending iteus. A balance of
US$45,541.79 in the credit was cancelled on October 28, 1988.
2.    Parts I and III were prepared by Bank staff, basei on informatiun
available in the projects files and the project complet...on report prepared by
the National Electricity Corporation, the credit beneficiary.
3.    The Beneficiary reviewed the first draft of this PCR and their comments
are reflected accordingly. The Beneficiary prepared a Final Completion Report
which in many respects is comprehensive and detailed and contai s some or the
topics that need to be covered under Part II of the new PCR format. In order
to avoid further delay in submission of this report, we have completed Parts I
and III as required. We requested the Beneficiary, several months ago, to
prepare Part II according to OED's guidelines, however, they did not reply to
our request and we do not expect them to do so.



ii
SUDAN THIRD POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1006-SU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    The project was conceptualized when the Bank made its first loan (Loan
522-SU for US$19 million) to Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC)
in 1968 to finance the Power I Project which consisted of the installation of
first of three 30-MW generating sets et the Roseires Dam, a 15-MW gas turbine
at Khartoum, construction of 220 kV and 110 kV transmission lines and the
installation of associated substation facilities. The Roseires Power Station
has been in operation since 1971. The second credit of US$23 million to the
power utility (Credit 564-SU) was approved in 1975 to help finance an
expansion program and to provide funds for consultants in carrying out studies
of projects required for future power development in the Sudan. These studies
were prepared by Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners and Merz and McLellan of the
UK which, included a power demand forecast and investigation of probable sites
for hydroelectric development. Upon completion of these studies, PEWC
prepared a power demand forecast for the period 1977/1978 to '085/86 by
aggregating forecasts for individual consumer loads based upon consumer
applications for supply. The results of the analysis were discussed with
government ministries, corporations, industrial and other large consumers.
The forecast indicated that after completion of the oagoing Power II Project,
a further addition to generating capacity would be nezded in the Blue Nile
system by 1981 providing a basis for the Power III Project.  The project was
designed to include phase one of the Sudan's Blue Nile Grid (BNG) Development
Program (1978-1986)2.
2.    The power development strategy of the government of Sudan was to
concentrate on increasing and improving the power system capacity f the Blue
Nile Grid, which provides most of the nation's electricity supply.
Furthermore, the sector was required to supply vitally needed energy for pumps
and machinery in the major irrigation schemes, where the country's principal
export crops (long and medium staple cotton, as well as groundnuts) are grown,
The BNG system comprises the generating and transmission facilities located along
the Blue Nile River to supply electricity to the city of Khartoum and surrounding
areas, as well as Sennar, Damazin, Wad Medani, assea Heissa, Es Suki, Singa and
other individual centers and to various irrigation schemes.
2      The BNG development program has been grouped into three implementation parts and
the first stage (the proposed Third Power Project) comprised: (a) installation of
6xlO MW diesel generating units at the existing Burri thermal stationl (b)
reinforcement of the existing Burri-Khartoum North 33-kV transmission circuits;
(c) addition of the 5th hydro-generator (40 MW) at Roseires hydro-electric
station; (d) stringing of the second 220-kV transmission circuit between Sennar
junction and Kilo X substations; (e) training program; and (f) engineering for the
project and part of the second stage of the BNG Development Program. The project
was financed from proceeds of IDA credit, Overseas Development Administration (ODA
of UK) and the German Ministry of Economic Cooperation (BMZ) grants.



iii
and for agriculture based industries. Without assured supplies of power,
these schemes would not be able to function and Sudan could be deprived of its
main sourue of f-reign exchange.  It is in this framework that IDA's
assistance to -the power sector was designed.
Project Obiectives and Description
3,    The principal objective of the project was to provide additional
generating capacity and transmission extension facilities to meet the growing
demand of BNG at least cost. The project also provided for strengthening of
PEWC's organization and imptoving its operations through management and staff
training programs and reform of tariff policies.
4.    As indicated in paras. 3.01-3.03, the project included: (i) addition of
hydro units at Roseirvs hydroelectric station; (ii) reinforcement of
transmission circuits; (iii) extension and installation of additional
generating capacity at two other power stations; (iv) stringing of
transmission circuits; and (v) technical assistance and training in
management, accounting, development planning and operations.
Project Implementation
5.    The early stages of project implementation were marked by severe
economic difficulties in Sudan: currency devaluations; increasing domestic
prices; and shortages of many essential commodities e.g. petrol and fuel,
cement and other building materials which caused delays in the execution of
the work. As a result, commissioning of the Roseires (Sets No. 5 & 6), Burri
(Units 1,2,3, & 4) and Khartoum North (Units No. 1 & 2) Power Stations which
were scheduled to be commissioned between 1982 and 1984 took place between
1984 and 1985.
6.    The other major objective of institutional strengthening was carried out
by engaging consultants. The assistance provided by consultants during the
implementation period of the project helped NEC in the identification of
critical operational and management weaknesses. Two consulting firms provided
assistance in technical and management areas through: (a) introduction of
better operating systems to reduce energy losses; (b) preparation of tariff
study; (c) development of a management information system; (d) implementation
of programs to improve billing and collection: and (e) assistance in
facilitating the use of computer. Another firm assisted in the implementation
of programs to improve accounting systems and initiation of manpower training
programs.
7.    Although most of the issues identified were addressed, NEC was not able
to implement fully the recommendations of the consultants. For example,
Government often delayed approval of required tariff adjustments which
hampered the Beneficiary's ability to attain satisfactory financial
performance. Government policies also kept salaries at a non-competitive
level which caused departure of many assential excellent technical and
financial staff.



iv
inclusions. Findings and Lessons to be Learned
The main findings and lessons learned are:
(a)   During project preparation, the following implementation problems
should have been identified and adequate provision made to deal
with them:
-     inadequacy of roads and bridges to transport
equipment (para. 5.07);
-     the need to carry out pipeline laying works around the crop
production season (para. 5.08); and
-     the need to ensure that detailed description of all project
components and/or sub-components are completely discussed
with the donors and their sources of financing clearly
identified (para. 5.02).
(b)   IDA should have been more aggressive in communicating to
Government the need for timely implementation of tariff
adjustments both as part of its "project sector" dialogue and
"country economic" dialogue. It silould also have pursued more
actively efforts to link improved financial and managerial
performance so as to be able to retain talented staff. It must be
recognized, however, that it was quite difficult for government
and public enterprises to compete against the salaries then
offered in the Gulf States;
(c)   In the design of the project, sufficient emphasis was not placed
and resources allocated for institution building activities; and
(d)   Future power lending operations, country economic dialogue, and
complementary projects should endeavor to address more firmly the
issue of complete autonomy for NEC so that it would be able to
adopt policies needed to:
-     attract and retain highly qualified and skilled staff;
-     implement more effectively specific recommendations for
improving management and other operating systems; and
-     adjust tariffs whenever necessary so as to ensure the
sustainability of NEC as an institution.
The main objective of the project to enhance power system capability has
een achieved. The project doubled generation capacity by adding 186 MW to
he available firm capacity of about 180 MW to enable NEC power system to
perate on a larger and more reliable scale. Despite some delays in project
mplementation the time spent in completion of physical components is not
xcessive considering the major difficulties and obstacles, mostly unforseen
t project appraisal, which were encountered in project execution.



SUDAN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
CREDIT 1006-SU
PROJECT COMPLETIGN REPORT
PART I
1.        Proiect Identity:
Name            = Third Power Project
Credit No.    = 1006-SU
RVP Unit        = Africa Region
Country         = Sud&n
Sector          = Industry and Energy
Subsector      = Power
2.        Background
2.01      Power operations in Sudan are carried out by the National
Electricity Corporation (NEC). 3/ NEC is responsible for constructing and
operating power generation and transmission facilities connected tc the Blue
Nile Grid and in che Eastern areas, distributing power in Khartoum area,
supplying power to the regional organizations, 4/ establishing power supply
tariffs, ensuring technical uniformity throughout the Sudan, and providing
technical services and training to the regional electricity organizations.
2.02      The Power III project emerged from consultants' studies financed
under the previous Bank Group lending operation for power development in the
Sudan (Credit 564-SU, June, 1975) 5/. Among the conclusions of the report
were: (a) the demand could be expected to rise from 670 GWh and 126 MW peak in
1978 to 1710 GWh and 324 MW peak in 1986; and (b) the recommended additional
plant would increase the installed available power capacity from 216 MW in
January 1980 to 436 MW at the end of 1986.
2.03      The economy of Sudan is predominantly based an agriculture and the
industry is mostly related to the latter. The bulk of Sudan's export earnings
is derived from agriculture (cotton and groundnuts), within which irrigation
3/    Power and water supply operations used to be carried .  by PEWC, the original
beneficiary of Credit 100B-SU. In mid-1982, PEWC was split up into the National
Electricity Corporation (NEC), the Khartoum Water Authority, and a number of
regional organizations.
4/    The remainder of NEC's operations consist of a number of isolated stations in
other areas. The largest of these installations are at Atbara, Port Sudan and
Khasm El Girba. These are run by regional organizations. More recently, however,
Government has proposed to put all regional organizations under the control of
NEC.
The project Included installation of a 42-MW fourth generating unit at Roseires
hydroelectric P/S, installation of 16-MW diesel generating capacity at Burri and
throe generating units each rated 6 MW, installation of five generating units each
rated 1 MW at Juba D/S.



is the most important subsector. The introduction of improv3d and modern
technology, which includes electrification of irrigation projects, among other
things, helps to increase the agricultural output. Expansion under Power III
Project of the existing BNG generating and transmission/distribution
facilities provided the needed energy for agricultural and agro-industrial
projects.
2.04     During the late 70's, a large number of industrial and agricultural
projects had been initiated in the BNG area. The energy requirements of these
new projects, the planned expansion of existing projects, and the increasing
power demand by residential and commercial customers were the basis for
planning the BNG DPvelopment Program (see footncte 2, page iv). The
development program was estimated to require a total investment of US$339
million with foreign exchange component estimated at US$273 million. In order
to facilitate the financing of the considerable foreign exchange expenditures,
BNG Development Program was divided into two parts: the Power III Project to
be financed from the proceeds of IDA credit, the Overseas Developmenw
Administration (ODA of UK) and the German Ministry of Economic Cooperation
grants and a future project, for which it was envisaged that financing
commitments would be required to be secured during the first half of 1982.
3.       Project Objectives and Description
3~.01    Project Objectives:  The main objectives of the project were to:
(a)provide additional generating capacity and transmission
extension facilities to meet the growing demand of BNG at
least cost;
(b)improve and strengthen NEC's organization and operationq
through technical assistance and comprehensive management
and staff training programs; and
(c)undertake reforms in tariff policies.
3.02     Project Description:  At appraisal, the project comprised the
following:
IDA Financing:
(a)Addition of fifth and sixth hydrogenerators and embedded
parts of Unit 7 at Roseires including:
-  engineering, supply, erection, commissioning and
maintenance of Roseires hydrogenerator units 5 and
6 comprising of a vertical shaft Kaplan turbine
similar to the four existing turbines; a veztical
shaft, salient pole synchronous generator rated at
about 40 MW (43 MVA, 0.9 P.F.), with generation
voltage of 11 kV, complete with excitation
equipment; gates and penstock to suit existing
structure, civil works; switchgears, protection and



cabling; ar.d installation of embedded parts 6/ of
Unit No. 7.
(b)Reinforcement of the existing 33-kV transmission circuit
between Burri and Khartoum North substations which includes
the following works:
-   site investigations, load flow, short circuit and
stability studies.
-   installation of two circuits, each of about 4 km
long using 3 core aluminum conductors oil-filled
cable connecting Burri and Khartoum North
substations.
-   installation of 33-kv switchgears (9 switches) and
busbar extensions at Burri and Khartoum North
substations to connect the diesel generating units
at Burri to the existing transmission network.
(c)Extension of existing Kiartoum North substation which
includes:
-   installation of llO-kV switchgear (5 switches) and
busbar extensions to connect the proposed new steam
generating units to the existing transmission
network.
-   replacement of two existing 30 MVA, 110/33-kV step-
up power transformers by two 60 MVA, 110/33-kV new
transformers.
KfW Financing:
(d)Stringing of the second 220-kJ transmission circu..t between
Sennar Junction and Kilo X substations which inc'ades:
-   site investigations, load flow, short circuit and
stability tests.
-   stringing of the second 220-kV circuit overhead
conductor over a distance of approximately 270 kms
between Sennar Junction and Kilo X substations
using existing galvanized steel towers.
i/    The embedded parts of Unit 7 (mainly construction of penstock and control gate)
were Included under Power III to enable all concrete works to be completed in one
operation, leaving only the mechanical erection and cabling of the unit to be
carried out under the next project. Furthermore, the cost of the embedded parts
is relatively small compared to the total project cost.



-    nstallation of lx55-MVA-220/110-kV and lx40-MVA-
220/110-kV transformers at Sennar Junction and
Meringan substations, respectively.
- installation of additional 220-kV. 110kV and 11-kV
switchgears (15 switches) and busbar extensions at
Roseires, Sennar Junction, Meringan and Kilo X
substations.
-   installation of 1 x 100 MVA-220/11-kV step-up
transformer at Roseires substation.
-   installation of reactor banks, each 15 MVAR, at
Roseires, Sennar Junction and Meringan substations.
ODA Financing:
(e)Additional diesel units at Burri thermal power plant which
include the following works:
-   engineering, supply, erection, commissioning and
maintenance of about 40-MW total capacity of diesel
engine-driven generating sets and associated
equipment at Burri thermal power plant and
installation of step-up power transformers,
switchgears, cabling and protection cubicles.
(f)Installation of a steam turbine plant between the existing
Khartoum North substation and the right bank of the Blue
Nile which comprises the following works:
-   engineering, supply, erection, commissioning and
maintenance of about 60 MW capacity of oil-fired
boiler plant and steam turbine-driren generating
plant at a new site in Khartoum North;
-   installation of 2 oil fired boilers, steam
turbines, generators, cooling towers, water
treatment facilities, fuel handling and storage
facilities, auxiliary services, switchgears,
cabling, and protection cubicles.
IDA Financing:
(g)Training program for top and middle management and all
levels of technical staff including:
-   a comprehensive training program covering the
requirements of all technical staff (from engineer
to craftsman).
-   extension of existing training facilities
(including addition of workshops, laboratory,



lecture rooms and electrical and mechanical
training equipment).
3.03     During project implementation, it was realized that in order to
maximize generation capacity and efficiently utilize all existing power
systems, rehabilitation of existing plants was needed. Thus, the following
additional components were added to the project: (a) rehabilitation of Jets
No. 1, 2, 3 at Roseires power station; (b) uprating, rehabilitation and
extension of the 33 kV Burri substation (including consultancy services for
Burri Power Station extension); and (c) construction of a 110 kV overhead line
between Khartoum North power station and Kuku substation. On April 18, 1984,
the credit was also amended at the request of the Government of Sudan to use
the proceeds from the credit for the completion of the Juba power station
which was originally included under the Power II Project but could not be
completed due to lack of funds. Another addition included the refurbishing
and extension of existing telecommunication system and establishment of a
modern and adequate load despatch center which was not explicitly mentioned in
the project description but was intended to be associated with the 220 kV
transmission extension.
4.       Project Design and Orgarization
4.01     The project was designed to support the objectives described in
para. 3.01. It was formulated in the context of the PEWC's least cost
development plan and the specific components of the project were based on a
Hydro/Thermal Generation Program to meet the electricity requirements of the
BNG area. Project planning to enable future expansion, was made possible with
the help of consultants (para. 2.02). Furthermore, the urgent need for
providing additional generating capacity and transmission extension facilities
was clear to everybody concerned, and all parties involved agreed on the
implementation of the physical aspect of the project.
4.02     The scope of the project was modified during the implementation
(para. 3.03) and on the institutional aspect, the Bank's intention to improve
and strengthen NEC's operations was not completely achieved because NEC was
not sufficiently autonomous to carry out consultants recommendations and to
sustain financial stability (para. 7.03).
4.03     The roles and responsibilities of NEC and agencies responsible for
the project were clearly defined and understood at the early stages of
implementation. Also, to facilitate coordination of project activities and
ensure smooth implementation, a task force with a Project Director (PD) was
created. However, in late 1984 the operation of the task force was
interrupted when the PD was appointed as Director General of NEC. Because of
increased responsibilities, the incumbent could not devote sufficient time to
project implementation which resulted ir) the loss of effective control of
monitoring of the project. The situation further deteriorated when the
Director General resigned his position. To prevent the situation getting out
of control, the financing agencies mobilized external technical assistance to
improve the structure and operations of the task force. The task force was
reorganized into a simple and flexible structure with clear lines of
responsibility which was composed of: (a) a Project Director (PD) assisted by
an Executive Manager (EM) responsible for all project development matters



particularly those related to technical and financial aspects; and (b) at the
lower level, Project Managers (PM's) for each of the major components
responsible for all routine matters concerning contracts, administrative
procedures and technical issues affecting the project. In retrospect,
monitoring systems designed by the task force proved to be very effective and
although problems occurred throughout the implementation period, most of these
difficulties were satisfactorily resolved.
5.       Project Implementation
5.01     The credit became effective on August 14, 1960, with the preparation
of tenders for international competition, in accordance with the guidelines
for procurement of the financing agencies, the only restriction being dictated
by the regulations of ODA, that prescribed contracts to be awarded to British
firms only.
5.02     During appraisal, physical risks associated with the project were
considered negligible since most of the works involved were extensions and
additions to existing power generating plants. However, the risk associated
with institutional and management weaknesses was correctly identified and
realistic because the institutional objective of the project was not
completely achieved.
3.03     However, the risk perceived during appraisal with respect to
possible delays in tender evaluations and in opening of letters of credit for
supply of equipment and materials was minimized when the Government and the
Bank of Sudan agreed to streamline the procedures for processing letters of
credit. Furthermore, exemption from custom duties on all goods to be imported
for the Power III Project was granted. This facilitated the flow of essential
goods and supplies needed by the project. Overall, the improved procedures
expedited procurement for goods and civil works. The average time from tender
issuance to award of contract averaged about 8.5 months. On the basis of
procurement methods used which were primarily international competitive
bidding, this can be considered acceptable in view of the other unforseen
bottlenecks caused by the difficult country conditions at the time. The
contract award dates for the major components (Burri Diesel Plant, Roseires
Power Station and Khartoum North Steam Power Station) were within 2-3 months
of appraisal estimates. The longest delay occurred in the procurement of the
Telecommunications and Load Despatch Center (LDC) because this component and
its financing arrangements which should have been clearly identified were not
explicitly mentioned in the project documents. This component was intended to
be a part of the 220 kV transmission line extension and financed from the
Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) grant. The problem occurred when KfW
declared that since the LDC was not clearly identified at appraisal it needed
a complete reappraisal. After lengthy discussions between NEC, IDA and KfW
the latter waived this requirement and provided USS 5.5 million to finance a
scaled down communication center.
5.03     The early stages of project implementation were influenced by severe
economic hardship in the country. In addition to several devaluations,
steadily increasing domestic prices, lack of electricity supply and prolonged
shortages of basic commodities were experienced. In particular, the shortages
of petrol and fuel, as well as of cement and other building materials,



seriously affected scheduling and in some cases completion of civil works.
However, the sizeable quantities of fuel needed for commissioning the thermal
power station were made available ir time through the cooperation and support
of the authorities in charge of its distribution and this prevented further
delays in commissioning of the power plants. Also to avoid potential delays
in movement of equipment and goods, governme-it authorities gave the project
priority in using rail wagons and engines to transport fuel. Other measures
to avoid delivery delays included extensive use of truck convoys for
transporting large pieces of equipment along the new road from Port Sudan to
Khartoum, via Kassala and Wad Medani.
5.04     Project Execution and Implementation.  As indicated in para. 4.02
the formation of the task force facilitated execution of civil works.
However, some generic problems affected project execution. These included
technical. disputes between contractors and subcontractors and inadequate
supply of manpower. In addition to the difficulties generally affecting
several components, specific problems were encountered as mentioned in the
following paragraphs:
5.05     The implementation of the Roseires Hydro Power Station Extension
which included the addition of two hydrogenerators (Set Nos. 5 and 6), and the
embedded parts of Set No. 7 7/, the last that could be accomodated in the
powerhouse, was relatively smooth but difficulties occi'rred at the start of
construction process due to delays in mobilization, poor quality of
construction materials (sand and gravel) and difficulties in procuring and
transporting cement. For work associated with Set No. 7, NEC could not make
the site available in time, due to difficulties in cleaning the gatewell from
a heavy siltation 14 m deep. As a result of this unforseen problem, work at
the power house was delayed and additional expenses were incurred.
5.06     Completion of the Burri Diesel Power Station Extension works were
delayed and suffered some cost increase because overland transport of the four
10-MW diesel engines, which weighed 250 tons (364 tons including the trailers,
headers and beams) was not considered safe across several bridges between from
Port Sudan and Khartoum, particularly the one across the Blue Nile at Wad
Medani which could not hold the weight of the engines. After a few months of
intense consultation, a proposal for reinforcing the bridges was submitted by
the contractor and approved by authorities concerned and ODA, the financing
agency for this component agreed to finance the additional costs of
reinforcement. However, pending the resolution of this, the work at the site
came to a standstill. When this problem was finally resolved, the contractor
had partially demobilized by letting labour go and removed some of the
construction equipment. Also, unable to cope with these difficulties, the
contractor could not maintain control over his work program and resorted to
stop-gap measures which resulted in defective works. Although penalties for
the defective works were assessed against the contractor, the Project Director
suspended the application of penalties in the light of the contractor's
financial difficulties. This helped the contractor proceed with its scheduled
program of works but it did not prevent the eventual financial failure of the
7/    The completion of Set No. 7 is currently being undertaken under the Power
Rehabilitation Project, with the financial assistance of EIB (European Investment
Bank).



- 8 -
contractor. The contractor's business was put into receivership but he was
able to complete the various works against a payment of LSD 225,000 by ODA.
5.07     Implementation of Khartoum North Steam Power Station component which
was delayed by about two years because of installation of overland pipeline
across privately owned agricultural land had to be scheduled around the crop
season in order to minimize the impact on crops and irrigation schemes.
5.08     Annex 1 in Part III shows a comparison between appraisal estimates
and actual completion dates for the various components of the project.
Overall project completion was about 16 months later than appraisal estimates.
5.09     Project Costs.  The total final project cost, in terms of USS
equivalent, was US$245 million, virtually identical to the appraisal estimate
($244.7 million). The available credits in foreign currency were fully
utilized and the IDA credit and KfW grant were not exceeded. Within their
limits, it was even possible to rehabilitate and expand power plants not in
the original scope of the project description (para. 3.03). A detailed
comparison of these costs is given in Annex 5. Conversion of project costs to
US$ equivalent was made each quarter, using the official rates of exchange
published by the Bank of Sudan at the end of the period. During the
implementation period between 1981 to 1988 the official rate of exchange of
the Sudanese Pounds dropped from 0.500 to a US$ to 4.545 to a US$.  Actual
disbursements from the credit amounted to US$64.96 million which is equivalent
to approximately 22 percent of the total project financing.
5.10     Allocation of Credit Proceeds.  The original estimate of
disbursements and the actual disbursements of Credit 1006-SU are given in
Annex 2. Disbursements significantly lagged the appraisal estimates due to
start-up and procurement delays as indicated in paras. 5.05 - 5.07. Actual
costs remained largely within the budgetary estimates. The credit was amended
at the request of the Government to use the proceeds from the credit for the
completion of the Juba Power Station (see para. 3.03). The original expiry
date of the IDA credit was December 31, 1985. Shortly before that date, a
request for extension was submitted to the World Bank, and the credit was
extended until December 31, 1986 to carry out and complete the various
components of the project. Unfortunately, more time was needed since tenders
were delayed and it was evident that disbursements would extend beyond the
period, a subsequent extension of 12 months (i.e. from December 31, 1986 to
December 31, 1987) was granted by IDA on November 17, 1986.
6.       Project Results
6.01     Operational and Physical Results.  The physical targets and
indicators of the project as planned and achieved are shown in Annex 1.B of
Part III. The schedule showed variances between planned and actual completion
dates due to specific problems encountered during implementation (paras. 5.05
- 5.07) and the final operating and financial results were not fully
satisfactory (paras. 6.07 - 6.11).
6.02     Commissioning of the plant which was carried out in coordination
with the Operation Department of NEC was also not completely uneventful
(paras. 6.02 and 6.03). Commercial operations of various components of the



- 9 -
project commenced between 1983 to 1985. NEC greatly improved its public
relations by informing consumers in advance of the power interruptions and
explaining the reasons for curtailment of power supply. This resulted in the
consumers' greater understanding and acceptance of power outages. In March
1984, NEC formed a National Committee for Rational Utilization of Power. The
committee consisted of 36 members including three state ministers (energy,
irrigation, industry), representatives of trade unions and representatives of
residential and other consumers to review the availability of power supply and
take decisions on load shedding. Different programs for load shedding were
implemented whereby power cuts to different categories of consumers during
specified periods of the day were enforced. One of the measures enforced was
the prohibition on the use of air conditioners in offices and homes. This
prohibition, however, was lifted in May 1984 because of the improved river
flow position, and the new hydro and thermal capacity added in the second half
of FY84 which improved the power supply position of the BNG system.
6.03     Some operational problems were experienced shortly after pre-
commissioning of Unit No. 4 at Burri power station. It was discovered that
the power station did not have adequate cooling system capacity which caused
the plant output to fall by about 20Z. An additional cooling cell was added
which enabled all units to reach their full output of 10 MW each. Other
problems were related to frequent tripping of lubricating oil pumps and
replacement of exhaust valves every 2,500 hours instead of the designed 6,000
hours. The manufacturer was subsequently asked to supply extra cages and
valves free of cost. A major fire also occurred on June 20, 1985 which caused
the four sets to shut down. An investigation was carried out by the
engineering consultants (Lahmeyer) in conjunction with an expert from Khartoum
University and NEC staff. They established that the fire was caused by faulty
switchgear and protective devices. In order to avoid recurrence of similar
faults, the station switchgears and protective devices were modified.
6.04     The performance of the two 30-MW units at the Khartoum North Steam
Power Plan in comparison has been good. The units' loading is satisfactory,
sufficiently flexible, and no major operational problems have been
experienced. The plant's instrumentation is very sophisticated and complex,
but operational staff and management have been well trained and are capable of
running all installations. However, during the early stages of operation, the
plant fuel supply was hampered by insufficient railway freight cars (about
one-third of fuel-oil is transported by rail). To overcome this problem a
transport plan was drawn up by Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) and priority
was given to transporting by rail fuel urgently needed by the power plants.
Freight cars were also modified to facilitate unloading of oil during the
winter period when the fuel requirements are at their peak.
6.05     Economic Return.  The project was originally justified on the basis
that it represented by far the most economic means for meeting the additional
generating capacity to meet the growing demand of the Blue Nile Grid. At
appraisal it was estimated that the program would provide approximately 16Z
economic return. Economic rate of return estimates in the SAR were based on
shadow pricing of costs and benefits whereas a reestimation would need to be
based on willingness to pay principles, consistent with the evolution of
methodology in the sector but requiring considerable analytical efforts.
However, since actual project costs were nearly identical to the SAR



- 10 -
estimates, it is likely that the current economic rate of return will be at
least as high as the one estimated in the SAR. Under the circumstances, it
was felt that a full recalculation of the economic rate of return would yield
comparatively little additional insight and therefore has not been carried
out. The actual economic return has not been calculated by NEC. However, NEC
achieved an average financial rate of return of about 7% which is below the
opportunity cost of capital estimated at 10%. This unsatisfactory yield is
the result of poor financial performance which are explained in the succeeding
paragraphs.
6.06     Financial Performance.  Appraisal estimates and actual audited
Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements and Balance Sheets of the National.
Electricity Corporation (NEC) covering the years FY83 through FY86 are given
in Annex 7.
6.07     The following table shows the percentage variations in actual
financial performance of NEC compared with the appraisal estimates:
1983   1984   1985   1986
Electricity Sales (GWh)                    -52Z   -50%   -40Z   -34%
Average Tariff Levels                       47Z   118Z   186Z   173%
Operating Revenues                         -30Z    16%    65Z    81%
Operating Expenses (excl. depreciation)   16%    152        0%    18X
Operating Income (excl. depreciation)    -90%   -18%   179Z   196Z
6.08     The financial results of NEC were disappointing.  Electricity sales
were much lower than estimated at appraisal due to delays in completion of
physical components and high non-technical energy losses. Operating expenses
on the other hand were higher than estimates mainly due to high inflation and
devaluation of the Sudanese pound. Operating income in FY83 was lower than
appraisal estimates due to lack of adequate tariff adjustment during the
period. Operating income between FY84 to FY86 was higher because of increases
in tariffs of 2002 in two equal steps between April and December 1, 1984.
NEC's rate of return on net assets di-ring FY82 and FY84 was less than 8% as
required by the credit covenant (the rate of return requirement was revised in
April 1986 to 9% when the Power Rehabilitation Project became effective).
However, in FY85 and FY86, the rate of return at 14.7% and 12.7% respectively
was adequate.
6.09     A comparison of actual and appraisal estimates of the sources and
applications of funds covering the period FY83-86 is shown below:
(LSD millions)            2
Appraisal  Actual   Appraisal  Actual
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation         168.7    273.1      41.5Z    30.6Z
Less: Debt Service               108.3    131.1      26.6%    14.7%
Interest on Equity            -      66.9      0.0%      7.5Z
Net Internal Cash        277.0    471.1      68.1%    52.81
r



- 12. -
Consumer Deposits                  0.8       0.9      0.2Z      0.1X
Loans                            128.8    387.8      31.7Z    43.5Z
Grants                             0.0      32.6      O.OZ      3.72
Total Sources of Funds         406.6    892.4    100.OZ   100.02
Application of Funds
Construction Expenditures        143.6    485.0      35.32    54.32
Increase in Working Capital       33.4     23.1       8.2Z      2.52
Balance to finance               229.6    430.5      31.9%    48.22
Total Application of Funds   406.6    892.4    100.0Z  100.02
6.10     Net internal cash generation provided about 53Z of total financing
requirements for the FY83-86 period compared with 682 estimated at appraisal.
NEC financed most of its operational and capital expenditures through loans
and grants from the Government which accounted for 432 and 3.7Z respectively
of the total financing requirements. The increase in working capital during
the period is due to the increase in accounts receivables and inventories
amounting to Lsd 94.3 million.
6.11     NEC's average debt/equity ratio of 46/54 for the same period was
consistent with appraisal estimates.
6.12     Billing and Collection.  NEC continued to have serious problems in
consumer billing and collections. At one time while accounting records
indicated about 230,000 customers, the number of live, billable customers on
NEC's computer files was only about 150,000. Staffing constraints, shortage
of computer stationary, and equipment breakdown curtailed its ability to
undertake efficient billing and collection activities. In 1984, after ten
years of efforts at computerized consumer accounts, NEC decided to revert to
manual billing and consumer accounts. This action was prompted by a realistic
assessment of the situation and was considered the most sensible short-term
solution to the problem. NEC claimed that this had improved their collection
performance but based on the financial statement for the period beginning July
1982 to June 1986 accounts receivables averaged more than 12 months of sales.
More recently, however, NEC made some progress in its billing and collection
operations through the formation of a special team headed by a Senior Director
to handle exclusively collection activities with the goal of reducing accounts
receivable. It has also acknowledged IDA's advice regarding the opening of
additional collection centers. These action programs are being monitored very
closely by IDA and NEC agreed to provide regular progress reports.
6.13     The accounts receivable from government agencies constituted a
substantial proportion of all arrears. Before 1985, NEC owed large amounts to
the Government which paid oil companies the cost of fuel oil purchased by NEC.
NEC settled these obligations by debiting Government's accounts receivables
for their unpaid electricity bills. This arrangement was discontinued in
December 1984 when an agreement was reached between NEC and the Government to
settle in cash all receivables and payables. In 1987 major government arrears
were finally cleared. Unfortunately, this practice was reinstituted during
the last few years. On IDA's advice, NEC is currently discussing with the
Ministry of Finance various proposals to deal with this problem.



- 12-
6.14     Accounting and Audit.  NEC has appropriate financial accounting and
control procedures but these have not been effectively implemented because of
lack of adequate systems and modern technology for implementing them. In
particular, a comprehensive and efficient system to record assets was missing
and the computer system had limited capacity to handle the volume of
transactions required to be processed daily. In order to address the
problems, consultants were engaged to assist NEC in dev '.oping modern
accounting systems, standards and procedures as well as to provide on the job
training to staff in the Finance Directorate. To supplement the consultants
work already completed, additional technical support is needed to sustain
satisfactory implementation of the systems introduced, and further development
is necessary in streamlining NEC's budgetting and costing systems.
6.15     NEC's deficiciency in its accounting operations has also resulted in
chronic delays in preparation of final accounts and delays in submission of
audited statements. Audited accounts for FY83 were received in May 1985,
while the audited accounts for FY84, FY85 and FY86 were received in March
1987.
6.16     The project had no major enviro nental impact since it mainly
involved additions and reinforcements to existing hydroelectric and
diesel/fuel oil power stations.
7.       Project Sustainability
7.01     Power projects have a certain amount of built-in sustainability
because, under normal conditions, demand for power tend to increase, or at
worst to remain stable. The reasons for this include the need to provide
power supply for industrial produiction and irrigation projects and the
necessity for maintaining and rehabilitating existing installations to keep
power generation at a reliable level. The obvious risk of sustainability is
ineffective management of NEC due to internal weaknesses and excessive
dependence on government. NEC's lack of complete autonomy limits NEC's
ability to generate sufficient revenue and pursue a profitable operation
because very often tariff adjustments and payments for electricity are delayed
by the Government. IDA, therefore, in addition to providing assistance for
enchancing power systems should continue to provide assistance for
institutional reforms to make NEC an efficient and effective organization.
7.02     Despite various obstacles, however, the main objective of providing
additional generating capacity and transmission extension facilities to meet
the growing demand of BNG has been achieved. The Power III Project
considerably improved the power system's capability to operate on a larger and
more reliable scale. Implementation of the project, however, represents only
one stage in the development of the power sector operations in Sudan. With
demand continuing to increase, other programs have been prepared and
implemented for adding new capacity and enhancing the reliability of the
system. These programs are now being implemented under the existing Power
Rehabiliation and Power IV projects.



- 13 -
8.       Bank Performance
8.01     Overall, IDA maintained fairly good working relations with the
Borrower and the Beneficiary during credit processing and project
implementation. In 1981 IDA, together with the other donors recommended and
succeeded in the creation of an autonomous Project Management Unit for the
purpose of handling exclusively the day-to-day operations of the project and
serve as a focal communication point for project related issues. This
resulted in tremendous improvement in project monitoring capability by NEC
(para. 4.01).
8.02     IDA's participation in this sector made it possible for Sudan to
develop and implement the least cost project for meeting the expanding power
requirements of industrial and agricultural consumers. Compared to the large
physical infrastructure provided under the project, however, there was
considerably less emphasis on institution building activities. Although IDA
insisted on adequate usage of consultants in improving and strengthening of
NEC's organization and operation envisaged under the project, this objective
was not completely achieved due partly to operational difficulties (paras 6.11
- 6.14) encountered during project implementation period. The project was
jointly supervised with Power II Project approximately twice a year beginning
August 1980 and between 1987 and 1988 with Power Rehab and Power IV Projects
(Annex 3 in Part III gives details of the supervision missions). The
supervision missions were timely and teams composed of a Power Engineer and
Financial Analyst regularly visited Sudan.
8.03     In order to overcome these implementation problems in the future,
IDA needs to ensure that NEC has sufficient authority to carry out the
recommendations by consultants in improving its financial and organizational
operations and appropriate resources exist at the institution. Currently,
steps are being taken under the on-going projects (Power Rehabilitation and
Power IV) and within the framework of IDA's efforts to improve public sector
management and operations in Sudan.
9.       Borrower's Performance
9.01     Government was the Borrower and NEC was the implementing agency.
The status of compliance with the conditions of the Credit and Project
Agreements is indicated in Annex 6. NEC's project performance was
satisfactory except for: (i) the implemention of comprehensive financial
management and accounting systems; (ii) the revaluation of assets and the
application of a plan for periodic revaluation and systematized assets
amortization procedures; (iii) the reduction of overdue accounts; and (iv) the
delays in submission of audited financial statements. As already noted
earlier, the support needed by NEC in overcoming these difficulties was
inadequate due to lack of skilled manpower to execute these programs.
10.      Project Relationship.  IDA relationship with Government and NEC on
the project has been good. Adequate liaison and communication with the
Government and NEC established under previous operations was maintained under
the project. Coordination with other donors and contributing agencies was
good.



- 14 -
11.      Consulting Services
11.01    Various consultants initiated programs for improving NEC's operating
performance through reduction of energy losses, revision of tariffs,
development of a management information system, implementation of systems to
facilitate billing and collection procedures, and introduction to the use of
computers. Consultants hired to improve NEC's accounting operations were
successful in introducing computerized systems (payroll, stores accounting,
general ledger accounts, capital expenditures) and developed and implemented
suitable manpower development and training programs. Simultaneously, in an
effort to rationalize staffing levels, NEC computerized essential employee
data. This program was designed to place qualified staff in jobs commensurate
with their particular skills. All of these activities provided NEC with the
tools necessary to cope with its technical and financial management
deficiencies and ultimately improve its operations. The implementation of
these technical assistance programs, however, was not sustained because of
persistent institutional problems such as: (a) lack of qualified technical and
professional staff; (b) high departure rate of engineers and technicians who
left for many times more attractive employment opportunities in the Middle
East; (c) poorly motivated personnel; and (d) lack of sufficient management
control of operations.
11.02    Staff Development and Training.  NEC established a relationship with
the University of Khartoum and the Polytechnic for provision of technical
training and has been using various local institutions for management and
business administration training. Furthermore, in response to the Leed to
pursue a comprehensive training and development plan for its technical and
managerial staff, NEC employed the s-rvices of consultants who provided a
comprehensive training program covering the requirements of technical staff
from engineers to craftsmen and extension of existing training facilities.
Training activities in the power subsector have also been implemented through
foreign institutions and consultants. NEC staff were sent to Ireland
(Electricity Supply Board) for theoretical courses and to the U.K. (plant
manufacturers) for practical courses. Unfortunately, because of the delays in
completion of the power station, the returning trainees found themselves
unable to immediately apply their enhanced skills on the job. In the end many
trainees frustrated with the situation left with a considerable loss to NEC.
To fill in the gap, ODA financed an expatriate power station manager and some
specialized operating personnel.
12.      Project Documentation and Reporting
12.01    The Development Credit and Project Agreements were adequate for
achieving project obiectives in the area of power sector development. As the
project evolved, project documents were revised. In particular, new
components (para. 3.03) were added which were considered vital to maximizing
power generation, alleviating power distribution difficulties, improving
quality of supply and services, and reducing excessive power losses. The
additional components were added within the original scope and objectives of
the project.



- 15 -
12.02    Quarterly progress reports were received on a relatively timely
basis and usually came together with the consultants reports. The former
reported on progress of project activitieL; and problems associated with
project implementation and the latter, prepared by consultants, reported on
status of works at the Burri power station. Financial reporting by the
institution, however, had been unsatisfactory. This problem was caused by
the loss of a considerable proportion of NEC's experienced accounts staff to
the Middle East during FY81.  The delay in prep.-ation of timely financial
statements was also the result of the separation of electricity and water
supply operations because additional work was needed to properly establish
exclusive accounts for NEC.



- 16 -
PART II
SUDAN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1006-SU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
The Beneficiary was requested to prepare this section of the report a few
months ago but this has not yet been received. However, NEC has prepared a
final completion report and below is the conclusion portion of their report:
Conclusion
After ten years of a life particularly rich in events, sometimes quite
dramatic, several conclusions could be drawn from the completion of an
ambitious undertaking like the Power III Project, depending on the point of
view from which its developments were watched and lived.
Instead of entering into a detailed list of comments on the particular aspects
of the Project implementation, the conclusions of this report are deliberately
limited to a few essential facts, that can cast full light of the importance
of this achievement.
-     The Project has added a total nomical capacity of 186 MW to the
available firm capacity of about 180 MW of the existing NEC system,
thereby doubling its geneiation capability.
-     The generation capacity of the NEC grid could be doubled in a period of
four years, which can be considered quite reasonable under any
standards, if one accounts for the difficulties and obstacles of any
sort that had to be overcome in the hard environment of this
implementation, this can be qualified as a successful achievement. Of
course, it could never be question to keep the original time schedule,
established under heavy political pressure with extremely tight and
unreasonable targets.
The available credits in foreign currency were fully utilized, but not
exceeded, at least for the IDA loan and the KfW grant. Within their
limits it was even possible to rehabilitate and expand much plant that
originally could not be considered for improvement. Against the LSTG 71
million available from the ODA grant at the beginning of the Project
implementation, the financial requirements were finally estimated at
LSTG 79 million. The extra amount had to cover such exceptional events,
like e.g. the special road transport of extremely heavy diesel engines
and the consequences of the bankruptcy of a Contractor.



- 17 -
PART III
SUDAN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1006-SU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Original/                  Actual
Appraisal               as Z of Apr
Item                                        Estimate       Actual         Est
Total Project Cost (US$ million)               244.7         245.1     100.0X
Credit Amount (US$ million)                     65.0          64.9      99.92
Date physical components completed
Roseires P/S Unit 5                      07/83         01/84
Roseires P/S Unit 6                      12/83         07/84
Burri Diesel Plant  (4 x 10 MW)
Unit No. 1                               12/82         11/83
Unit No. 2                               01/83         05/84
Unit No. 3                               02/83         03/84
Unit No. 4                               03/83         11/84
Khartoum North Steam Station (2 x 30 MW)
Unit No. 1                           06/83         05/85
Unit No. 2                           03/83         03/85
33 kV tie line, Burri P/S, Kuku S/S    05/82           03/84
110 kV tie link, K.N. P/S-Kuku S/S       08/82         02/84
220 kV Transmission extension            10/83         10/84
Extension of 33 kV busbars at K.N,
Burri & Kuku S/S                                   03/87
Rehab of load dispatch center            07/86         10/86
Extension of telecoms facilities         09/85         02/86
Training Center Buildings                              07/83
Rehab of Roseires No. 1, 2 & 3
Unit No. 3                             -           06/85
Unit No. 2                             -           06/86
Unit No. 1                             -           06/87
Rehab of units 1. 2, 3 at Juba D/S          -          07/86
Proportion completed by date                     1ooZ          looz
Economic Rate of Return                           16Z
Institutional Performance                                    Mixed



- 18 -
Proiect Monitoring Guidelines
Commissioning
Description                               Target Dates             Actual
- Burri Diesel Plant                Aug - Dec 1982       Nov 83 - Jun 84
- Roseires Power Station
Unit No. 5                         Jul 1983             Jan 1984
Unit No. 6                         Dec 1983             Jul 1984
- Khartoum North Steam Power Plant  Mar - Aug 19b3   M'ar - May 1985
Financial and Other Indicators
a)    Rate of return on average revalued net fixed assets in operation,
adequacy of tariffs and progress of implementation of cost
reflecting tariffs.
Result: NEC's rate of return on net assets during FY83 and FY84
was less than 8% while in FY85 and FY86 the rate of return was at
14.7Z and 12.7Z respectively. Tariffs were not adequate in FY83,
however because of the tariff adjustment undertaken in April and
December 1984, NEC was able to improve its revenue position during
FY84 to FY86.
b)    Billing and collection of revenue progress in reducing accounts
receivable to 352 of sales by June 30, 1980 and at the end of each
subsequent year to 30?, 252, 202, and 17Z respectively.
Result:           Year                   Z of Sales
1983                      1282
1984                      1152
1985                       882
1986                       552
C)    Project cost estimate revisions and changes in financing plan for
quarterly review.
Result: Project costs were adequately monitored.



- 19 -
Project Dates
First mentioned in file                    May 1977
Negotiations                               September 5-11, 1979
Board Approval                             April 17, 1980
Credit Agreement date                      April 24, 1980
Effectiveness                              August 14, 1980
Closing Date                               December 31, 1985 - Original
December 31, 1987 - Actual
Final Disbursement Date                    September 30, 1988
Cumulative Disbursements
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Appraisal Estimate        1.0   7.0  29.0  51.0  61.0  64.0  65.0
(US$ million)
Actual (US$ million)            9.8  24.2  32.9  40.3  46.1  54.0  62.6  64.9
Actual as 2 of
Appraisal Estimate (Z)          140   83    65    66    72    83    96    99
Staff Input (Staffweeks)
Stage of
Project Cycle  1978 1979 1980  1981  1982  1983 1984  1985  1986 1987  1988
Through
Appraisal      15.0
Appraisal
Through Board        27.0
Board Through
Effectiveness
Supervision  8/            14.0  16.0  16.0  18.6  20.1  11.9  6.4  11.0  7.4
Total SW's    15.0  27.0 14.0  16.0  16.0  18.6  20.1  11.9  6.4  11.0  7.4
P===  ==3S ===0  ==wh=hr 3o-g  A=== p3=      = pr3j3==s=
!/ Sup.r,is.d with other on-going power pro3ects.



- 20 -
Mission Data
Days
Stage of           Month/    No. of    in      Specialization   Per#.   Types of
Project Cycle       Year     Persons   Field       Represented    Rating   Problems
Through Appraisal
-Preappraisal        Feb 78    3         10 a/  Power Engineers
Financial Analyst
-Appraisal           Sep 78    2         34 a/  Power Engineer
Financial Analyst
Appraisal
through Board        Jun 79    2          7 */  Power Engineer
Financial Analyst
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision          Aug 80    1         10    Power Engineer         2
Dec 80    1          9    Financial Analyst    2
Apr 81    1          8    Power Engineer        2   Procurement
Sep 81    2         10    Power Engineer        3  Managerial/
Financial Analyst        Financial
May 82    2         15    Poser Engineer        3  Procurement
Financial Analyst
Dec 82    2         13    Power Engineer        3
Oct 83    1          9    Power Engineer        3  Managerial/
Financial/
Political
Jun 84    2         15    Power Engineer        2  Technical/
Financial Analyst        Financial/
Managerial
Jun 86    3         11    Power Engineers       2  Manageritl/
Financial Analyst        Financial
Dec 86    1          8    Power Engineer        2
Jun 88    1         30 b/ Operations Analyst
Sep 87    3         21 c/ Power Engineer        1
Consultant
Oct 88    2         10 c/ Financial Analyst
Power Engineer
a/ Project appraised in conjunction with the suporvision of Power II Project.
b/ Project supervised in conjunction with supervision of manpower components
of Power Rehabilitation Project.
S/ Supervised simultaneously with other power projects (Power Rehabilation and
Power IV Projects).
Performance Rating Status: 1 - Problem free or minor problems
2 - Moderate Problems
3 - Major Problems



- 21 -
SUDAN POWER III PROJECT (Credit 1006-SU)
Schedule of Disbursements
(US3 Millions)
Appraisal         Actual       Actual as % of Apr.
Quarter Ending         Estimate      Disbursements          Estimate
Jun. 30, 1980             1.0
Sep. a0, 1980             2.0
Dec. 81, 1980             3.0
Mar. 31, 1981             4.0
Jun. 30, 1981             7.0
Sep. 30, 1981            12.0               6.2                62%
Dec. 31, 1981            17.0               9.8                67%
Mar. 31, 1982            23.0              13.0               65%
Jun. 30, 1982            29.0              18.6                57%
Sep. 30, 1982            36.0              19.2                66%
Dec. 31, 1982            41.0              24.2                69%
Mar. 31, 1983            46.0             27.2                 59%
Jun. 30, 1983            51.0             30.8                 80%
Sep. 30, 1983            66.0              32.0                68%
Dec. 31, 1983            68.0              32.9                57%
Mar. 31, 1984            80.0              34.6                68%
Jun. 30, 1984            61.0             38.8                 80%
Sep. 30, 1984            62.0              38.4                62%
Dec. 31, 1984            83.0              40.3                64%
Mar. 31, 1986            63.6             41.8                 88%
Jun. 30, 1985            64.0             43.6                 68%
Sep. 30, 1986            64.6             44.7                 89%
Dec. 31, 1985            65.0             46.1                 71%
Mar. 31, 1986                             48.0
Jun. 30, 1988                             49.9
Sep. 30, 1988                              61.7
Dec. 31, 1988                              64.1
Mar. 31, 1987                              69.3
Jun. 30, 1987                             60.5
Sep. 30, 1987                             61.4
Dec. 31, 1987                              62.6
Mar. 31, 1988                              82.7
Jun. 30, 1988                             63.0
Sep. 30, 1988                             64.8
Oct. 26, 1988   9/
V/ Closed on September 30, 1988 and the undisbursed amount of US146,641.79 cancelled.



- 22 -
SUDAN POWER III PROJECT
(Credit 1006-SU)
Project Cost Estimate
(US$ Thousands)
---Appraisal Estimate ----    ----Current Estimate---
Local    Foreign    Total   Local   Foregin   Total
Description
A. Project Works
(i) Roseires No. 6, 6 and 7 Units         5258      29864    34912     8381    30498    33877
(ii) Sennar-Kilo X - 2nd 220 Kv Circuit   6378       12174    17662      4898    26318    31016
(lii) Burrn Diesel Station                  a336      27874    30820      2694    41887    44581
(iv) Refinforcement 33-kV Circuit
Burrl-Khartoum North                    376      1928     2304      2089     9309    11398
(v) Khartoum North Steam Plant           10064      50474    60638    10166    78274    88429
(vi) Khartoum North Substation Ext.         452       1764     2216      1318               1318
(vii) Engineering A Site Supervision         904       7328     8232      2146    20992    23137
25768    130806   156574    25480   207276   233756
Management A Staff Training
Facilitios                            2800       4780     7680      8261     3041    11302
Physical Contingencies                5864      16470    20034
Price Increases                      16664      43888    60562
Total                             47896    195944   244740    34741   210317   246068



- 23 -
SUDAN POWER III PROJECT (Credit 1008-SU)
------------------------------------------------------------__-------------
Compliance with Major Covenants                I Status
Section 3.01, para. (i) requires NEC to        I Operation and maintenance
operate and maintain its plant ... in          l procedures are poor and they
accordance with appropriate engineering          a *re further hindered by a
standards.                                       lack of foreign exchange to
I import spare parts.
-------------------------------------      -  I--- ------------------------------
Section 3.03.  PEWC shall not employ           l NEC now has a ratio of 34:1
additional unskilled staff until it has        l
achieved a ratio of active meters to           |
employees of at least 40:1                     I
-------------------------------------      -  I--- ------------------------------
Section 4.02.  PEWC shall have its accounts I Audited accounts for FY83
audited and submit audit accounts within    l received in May 1985, while
six months after the end of the financial   I those for FY84, FY86 and
year (amended under Power IV Project           l FY88 in March 1987.  FY87
to eight months for FY87 accounts).              audited accounts were
provided in July 1989.
------------------------------------------ I_____________________________
Section 4.04.  Rate of Return requirement   l FY82 is 2%; FY83 is -6.8X;
for electricity not less that 8%O.               FY84 is 6.5%; FY86 is 14.7%;
(This was amended to 9% under Power Rehab        a and FY88 is 12.7%;
and to 20% internal contribution to            l Non compliance in FY82 was
investment for FY88 and to 10% rate of         l mainly due to devaluation of
return thereafter under Power IV.)             l currency and major repair
l works. Non compliance in
l FY83 and FY84 was primarily
l due to large revaluation
increases.
-------------------------------------------I-----------------------------
Section 4.06.  Debt service coverage           l In compliance
requirement is 1.5 6
-------------------------------------------I-----------------------------



- 24 -
e ~SMA
r,at vm L~  Stamn
Fo tia Yews &Aim Jm 3D. 1931986
-19 83~                                      90 - -986-
Appralsal  mMte  App-l t                A      l Hid    ppal  Rav1d
Sals in GIh
chnima                77.0    146.5       85.0    46.0       94.0      60.0   10.      73.0
TmEtrisaL            403.0   27L6        54L0    339.0    606.0    44L0   679.0   53.0
tic              297.0   281.1       315.0    262.0    335.0    34L0   356.0   41.0
AricA=m               25. 0    ZL6       260.0    69.0    307.0        90.0   338L0   109.0
Otbw b/              306.0    37.3       326.0    55.0    340.0        n.o   35o.0   85.0
ToiL             fl7-Is               157.0    77IT    TO=        iw=    MO   1
(ESi Mf11m)
arda l                 3.8      3.9        4.2      7.0       4.7      LL8      5.1    15.7
Iz&tr*la              16.0     17.2       2L5      37.3      24.1      65.3    V.0    664
Icuntc                1L2      2.4        19.3     3L6       20.5      59.0    2L.8    73
hpiie21twa             9.4      L2        10.4      7.5      114       1L4    12.5   15.2
t   b/                189       1.5       2.1       5.3      2L0       12.4   2L9    l62
Tot~. SaI  Bavam    =4~                753    -=T          M1T     Tf.g     ET 
aXrw                   0.7      3.0        0.8      1.4       0.9       4.7    0.9      4.5
Tariff Is_  Y/         0.0      0.0        3.0      0.0      17.1       0.0    3L9      50
Total              67.1      47.2       9.       92.1     99.7     1=6    1^.1    Zo3
Fuel                  20.5     19.7       28.5     26.0      33*6      1L2    4L0    389
int. - c               L7       2.4        2.0      3.7       2.3       8.0     2.8    12.0
0tbw Go,  1  & DIa  10.7       14.0       1W23      16.7     14.2      2Z.0   163    26.0
-  rd ad-             9.0     11.9       10.9     15.0      12.8      17.5    16.2    7.2
A4mfMg=~tjCn           5.4      8.2        6.3    100        7.2      1L5      84    20.8
Tam                    0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0       6.2       0.0    14.5
lbt1         _.3  o    -.2  7-3-. 8 M                      m            z 2 2 
(apent  i               19.8      9.0       19.3     20.T   234          S3.4    2L9   106L4
Incmt a CUI              0.0     13.2        0.0     13.2       0.0      153      0.0    25.2
la      c Iab        19.8   -21.2        19.3      7.5      23.4      6.1L    2L9    8L2
_e     Jm I5.8            2.2       1.6       2.8      19.1      20.9    18.8   46.3
hlst 1a14.0   -24.4                        7.7      4.7       4.3   U .2    101    34.9
km. h-     - SiM~   0.0ow  0.072    0.051    0.118     0.09     0.164   0.070   0.191
Ron of latm s10.0           -.6         L1        5.5       8.2     14.7     83    12
7-W-m          mi Hm  a fzcu vwhau =m-          -t      m  m     .
CO/M      &"P   rd    In q      sa1  mon  ma   to'am   W camn lrger   t Of MC.
Am izmm   of 211 in twiffs w                fr  1, 1984 Sads 1 eCtad 1n b L



- 25 -
SMAN
Natioal Electricity Corporatoa
9S: ative Ftrds F1lo  Statt
For the Years  X     JUi  30, 1983-1986
(ESd Million)
-1983---                    1984-              1985-   -1986---
Appraisal  IJadtite  Appraisal Unaidite  Appraisal  RevisW   Appraisal Reaised
Estimt    Actual   Fatzme   Acal   Estimate   Estimte  EstIte  Estimate
Internal Sources
Operatr  Io  -Water              5.3       0.0       4.9        0.0       2.5        0.0       3.2       0.0
- Electric.    19.8      -9.0     19.3       20.7      23.4        83.4      28.9     106.4
lDepredaton                     11.4      11.9      13.6       15.0      16.1       17.5      20.3      27.2
Total                        36.5       2.9     37.8       35.t       42.       100.9      52.4     133.
Increase in Working Capital     13.2    -11.6       10.9     -13.1        5.7       45.1      16.6      -9.0
Debt Service                    20.2      23.9     25.1         8.8      31.1       29.6      31.9      68.8
Interest on Equity Capital                13.2                 13.2                 15.3                25.2
Total                        V.T        ;5       W 60       tI        36.8       90.0      48.5      85.0
Net h,ailable fatOperatlcn         3.1     -22.6       1.8       26.8       5.2       10.9       3.9      48.6
G@s=ontt    R uims
P?mr III Project                30.8       76.4     11.3                  4.1                  0.8
Other                           26.3       15.1     31.2                 24.2                 14.8
Total   m            m       37s        91.5 .5   U5        80.7      28.3      112.8      15.7    200.0
Bel     to Ftnuoe                 54.0      114.1     40.7       53.9      23.1      101.9      11.8     151.4
FicAd b
Co       Deposits                0.2       0.2      0.2         0.1       0.2        0.3       0.2       0.3
loans                           53.8      98.0      40.5       37.1      22.9      101.6      11.6     151.1
Grants                           0.0      15.9      0.0        16.7       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total             11    T4.1                      T.        53.9      23-.1     101. 9 11.8         151.4
Debt ServlAc  Caerap               1.8       0.1       1.5        4.1       1.4        3.4       1.6       1.9



SUDAN
National Eletricity Corporatimx
2Wrative Balwice Steets as on June 30, 1983-1986
(LSd RDLIMT-
-19833-     -194-  -198a5--   -1986-
APPraisal Unauiltal Appraisal Unauiitel Appraisal Pevised  Appraial  Pevise
Estiate  Actual  Estimate  Actual   Estimte  EsLimte  Estimrce Estimate
AStSEr
Plant in Operation      380.5    456.0   453.7       581.8    535.5    907.8    676.8   1,253.9
Less: Depreciation      112.9    132.0    134.4      150.0    159.9    2D6.2    191.3    280.8
ibt Plant            267.6    324.0   319.3       431.8    375.6    701.7    485.5    973.1
Wbdk in Progress        109.6    179.0   114.2       157.2     95.7    134.6       11.5    228.3
QCrent Asets:
Cash sd Banks         44.7     -4.9    53.0        -6.2      52.1    -64.3      5&3    -45.8
Accounts RecPAvable   17.1     56.7    17.5       104.7      21.5    [37.1      27.1    115.5
Iaventories           15.2     27.2    18.         23.6      21.5     45.4      27.1      62.7
Other Accounts a/              57.4                57.6               50.0                40.0
Other                  8.6      2.8      9.0        0.4      9.5       4.0      10.0       4.5
Total              85.    1T         97.       I;r    11Z1    172;          122Y      177;
Total Assets            462.8    642.2   531.1       769.1    575.9  1,008.5    619.5  1,378.4
LLABELITIES
Equity
Capital               34.4      11.2    34.4       11.2      34.4     11.2      34.4      11.2
etasned aEarninp     105.3     -4.7    117.5        3.0    123.7      50.2    136.0       85.1
Grants                25.2     60.7    25.2        77.4      25.2     77.4      25.2      77.4
ReveiLj titn Reserve   97.8    196.4   116.5      213.8    138.9    365.8    165.2    558.1
Total             NET    =266 MET             -MY.7    I=522       W04.     360       731T5
aIgafenrm Debt          186.3    276.3   222.4       3D7.3    237.2    400.2    240.8    528.8
Grnsu mDeposits           1.9       1.7     2.1        1.8       2.3      2,1       2.5       2.4
Ozantc Ltabilities:
Aco,ms Payable        11.9      21.9    13.0       32.1      14.1     36.3      15.4      50.2
hiterest Payable
an Qapital                    26.5               39.6               15.3                25.2
Othr b/                0.0      52.2     0.0       82.9      0.0      50.0       0.0      40.0
Total           IT7      Tf.       135      T           4-.i    To16      T 5-.4    115.4
Total [AablI Iti        619.5    642.2   531.1       769.1    575.?  1,0085       377.2  1,378.4
(irest Ratio                7.2      1.4      7.5        1.2       7.4      1.7       6.6       1.5
Receivablm-IDys             133      438      122        415       122      304       162       182
Dt/Equity Ratlo           41/59    51/49   43/57       50/50    42/58    44/56    37/63    42/58
a/ Otht  awre  awts cprise the amits due to NEC by the renal electriciLy qacim  for
cmutructinand otehr wst performd by tEC.
b/ Otter  lrret IabIlIti   cprise mainly amtuns in respet of NEC bills (princpally for fuel oil)



