Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2755-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
THIRD POWER PROJECT
March 26, 1980
his docent hs a rsred distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnmce of
their official duties. Its contents may not Otherwise be disclosed without World Dank ahoriation.



CURFtENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00           -      hSd 0.50 (piasters)
LSd 1.00          -     US$2.00 I/
LSd 1.00          5      100 piasters
LSd 1.00          -      1000 millimes (mms)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                       =     3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)               =     10.75 square feet
1 kilometer (km)      2                 0.621 miles
1 square kilometir (km )          =     0.386 square miles
I cubic meter (m )          3           35.3 cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (mi Is)        35.3 cubic feet per second
1 kilovolt (kV)                   =     1000 volts
1 kilowatt (kW)                   =     1000 watts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)             =     1000 watt hours
1 megawatt (MW)                         1000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)             =     1 million kilowatt hours
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)           =     1000 kilovolt ampere
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB - African Development Bank
BEI  -  British Electricity International (U.K.), Ltd.
BMZ  -  (Bundesministerium iEuer Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit,
Ministry of Economic Cooperation, Federal Republic of Germany
BNG  -  Blue Nile Grid
CEWA -  Central Electricity and Water Administration
CEWC -  Central Electricity and Water Corporation
ECUK -  Electricity Council of the United Kingdom
Gibb -  Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners (U.K.)
M/M  - Merz and McLellan (U.K.)
MWSC -  Middle West Service Company (U.S.A.)
ODA  - Overseas Development: Administration (U.K.)
PEWC -  Public Electricity aLnd Water Corporation
PWD  -  Public Works Department
SLPC -  Sudan Light and Power Company (U.K.)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
I1   On September 16, 1979, the Government abolished a tax/subsidy
procedure previously used to arrive at the official rate of
exchange and a direct rate of US$2.00 per Sudanese pound was
established. Valuation of all imports for customs purposes
has been changed to the new official rate (LSd 1.00 = US$2.00)
from the old official rate (LSd 1.00 - US$2.50).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:   Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC)
Amount:         US$65 million equivalent
Terms:          Standard
Onlending       To PEWC at 12 percent interest rate for 20 years including
Terms:         5 years of grace.
Project         The proposed project is designed to help meet Sudan's power
Description:  requirements up to the end of 1986.  The project would in-
clude the following elements: (a) Addition of the fifth and
sixth hydro-units (80 MW) at the existing Roseires hydro-
electric facility plus embedded parts of unit seven; (b)
Reinforcement of the 33 kV transmission circuits between
Burri and Khartoum North substations; (c) Extension to Khartoum
North substation; (d) Engineering and site supervision; (e)
Management and staff training; (f) Stringing of the second
220-kV transmission circuit between Sennar junction and the
Kilo X substation in Khartoum; (g) Installation of about 40 MW
diesel generating capacity at Burri power station; (h) Installa-
tion of the first and second units (2 x 30 MW) at the Khartoum
North steam power plant.  The physical risks of the project are
negligible. Other risks associated with managerial/administra-
tive capacity would by mitigated by the project.
Summary of
Project Costs:
US$ million
Description of Major Elements:             Local      Foreign     Total
(a)  Burri Diesel Station (40 MW)          3.3        27.5        30.8
(b) Roseires No. 5 and 6 units,
embedded parts of No. 7             5.2        29.7        34.9
(c)  Sennar-Kilo X 220-kV Circuit          5.4        12.2        17.6
(d) Khartoum North steam
units (60 MW)                      10.0        50.5        60.5
(e) Reinforcement Burri-Khartoum
North Line                          0.4         1.9         2.3
(f)  Engineering and Site Supervision    0.9           7.1         8.0
(g)  Management and Staff Training          2.8        4.8         7.6
(h) Khartoum North Substation
Extension                           0.4         1.8         2.2
Base Cost                       28.4       135.5       163.9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Contingencies
Physical                                     3.8         16.5      20.3
Price                                       16.8         44.0      60.8
Subtotal                                 20.6        60.5       81.1
Total Project Cost                       49.0        196.0     245.0
Interest during construction                45.0          -        45.0
Total Financing Requirement (rounded)  94.0         196.0     290.0
Financing:                                            US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                                            -        65.0       65.0
ODA                                            -        114.0     114.0
Germany                                       8.0        17.0      25.0
Government (Interest during Construction)   45.0           -       45.0
PEWC (internally generated funds)            41.0          -       41.0
Total                                     94.0       196.0     290.0
Estimated Disbursements:  IDA Fiscal Year   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
(US$ Million)
Annual             7.0   22.0   22.0   10.0    4.0
Cumulative         7.0   29.0   51.0   61.0   65.0
Rate of Return: 16%
Appraisal Report: Report No. 2399a-SU dated March 25, 1980
Map:  IBRD 10992R2



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A THIRD POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of US$65.0 million to the Democratic Republic of the
Sudan to help finance a Third Power Project. The credit would be on standard
IDA terms. The Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom) and the
Ministry of Economic Cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany (BMZ) have
agreed in principle to provide cofinancing totaling about US$139 million
equivalent on a grant basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic updating mission visited Sudan in November, 1978 and in
mid-1979; its report (No. 2652-SU) was circulated on October 24, 1979. Major
conclusions are reflected in this report. Summary tables of social, economic
and financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the largest
country in Africa. It has a population of about 17 million and is classified
by the UN as a least developed country. Per capita GNP is estimated at about
US$320. Much of the country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated, and in
contrast to many developing countries, there is little population pressure on
presently developed land. Although a large part of the country consists of
desert or semi-desert, the Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for
agricultural development. Estimates indicate that about two-thirds of the
total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production, and only a small
fraction of this land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent
on exports of cotton, which is the major commodity produced on irrigated land,
and also gum arabic, sesame and groundnuts. The manufacturing sector is
relatively small and, apart from the processing of such agricultural commodi-
ties as cotton, oil seeds and sugar, it is limited to the production of
consumer goods and building materials. There have been some exports of chrome
ore and further development of these deposits is taking place. A development
of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the reported discovery of
oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. The public sector has
1/   Part I is substantially unchanged from discussions of the economy in the
President's Report for the recently approved Credit for the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program.



- 2 -
long been important in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irriga-
tion facilities, the railways and virtually all power and water supply. With
the nationalization measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry,
commerce and finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although some
industrial enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about half of
the GDP is still generated within the public sector.
Past Economic Performance
4.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is consider-
able, its economic performance has been disappointing. During the sixties
and early seventies, the economy grew by little more than the rate of growth
of the population. This was primarily due to the depressed level of invest-
ment, both public and private. While the Government was successful in achiev-
ing a high growth rate of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure absorbed
most of it, and development expenditure decreased. The growth of recurrent
expenditure was caused in large part by increasing security expenditures
and transfers to local government. A protracted civil war in the south also
claimed considerable energy and resources. Public sector deficits were
increasingly financed through excessive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily,
and the external position was under pressure owing to the rapid growth of
imports and a stagnation of export volume.
5.        Following the Addis Abalba accord of 1972, which brought an end to
the civil war, the Government directed its attention more to the country's
development needs. For the first time, in 1973, the Government's development
objectives were stated clearly in an Interim Action Program, which aimed
mainly at removing the severe infrastructural bottlenecks, attaining self-
sufficiency in a number of consumer goods and expanding agricultural exports
to increase foreign exchange earnings. Prospects for financing this program
through external assistance looked very hopeful, particularly from Arab
oil-exporting countries which at the time regarded Sudan as the future
"breadbasket" of the Arab world. Government development expenditure did
indeed expand rapidly, from LS 50 million in 1973/74 to LS 185 million in
1977/78, and it was generally directed towards high priority sectors. Sub-
stantial amounts of foreign capital were forthcoming -- over the five years
1974-78 total commitments amounted to almost US$3 billion with particularly
large amounts in 1974-75. In 1977/78, the Government produced a new six-year
development plan. Ironically, these developments occurred at a time when
other forces were propelling Sudan towards perhaps the worst economic and
financial crisis in its history. Today, after several years of an accelerated
development effort, leading to an estimated average GDP growth rate of about
4.5 percent a year, the country is financially much worse off than seven years
ago when the development thrust began.
The Current Crisis
6.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the crisis situation
with respect to the balance of payments. Within two years, from 1973 to
1975, the deficit on current account increased from US$65 million to US$640
million and has not changed much since. In spite of high levels of external



- 3 -
aid commitments, disbursements actually declined. Gross official reserves
have fallen from a level equivalent to two months' imports in 1974 to only
a few days worth of imports. Debt service obligations started mounting,
and external payments arrears accumulated to a level of about $1.2 billion
in September 1979.
7.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic manage-
ment policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply increased
cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's ability to
respond quickly with effective remedial action, once the decision to act
had been taken. For example, import prices rose by about 88 percent during
1973-78, and because there was no equivalent rise in Sudan's export prices,
the country suffered a deterioration in its terms of trade averaging about 3
percent a year between 1973 and 1978. Adverse developments in foreign trade
were accompanied by other disadvantageous forces -- reduced flows of external
capital after 1974, mounting debt problems and absorptive capacity difficulties.
8.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of inter-
national inflation, particularly in 1974 and 1975, and partially because of an
increase in real terms, which was particularly large between 1973 and 1975--
perhaps 25 percent a year or more. Thereafter, imports in real terms increased
at a much more moderate pace of about 2 to 3 percent a year on the average.
Exports, meanwhile, declined in real terms by some 13 percent between 1970 and
1977. The decline was concentrated in cotton. In spite of an increase in
land under irrigation, the area of land under cotton (economically the most
remunerative export crop) fell by about 20 percent over the 1970-77 period.
At the same time yields decreased from 4.3 kantars per feddan to 3.5 kantars
per feddan. As a result, the volume of cotton exports in 1977 was about 35
percent lower than in 1971. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural
problems contributed to this decline, as did the increasing lack of maintenance
in many public irrigation schemes (a condition aggravated by the lack of spare
parts and other inputs) and the decision taken in 1974, after the sharp rise
in world prices of cereals, to expand the production of wheat and rice at the
expense of cotton. A particularly important factor, however, was the framework
of explicit and implicit disincentives to growing cotton (e.g., an unfavorable
exchange rate for the conversion of cotton export receipts; an additional
cotton export tax; the disproportionate share of production costs borne by
cotton in the public irrigation schemes).
9.        As indicated earlier, Sudan, starting in 1973, attempted to sharply
increase its development expenditures from a low and stagnating level. Ini-
tially, the rise in expenditures was financed by external capital but this
declined unexpectedly soon thereafter. For example, disbursements from public
loans dropped from $563 million in 1974 to $156 million in 1977. Part of the
reason is that commitments also decreased somewhat. Because of the accumulat-
ing arrears, external donors became more reluctant to make new commitments.
Also, increasing problems of absorptive capacity and execution of projects
contributed to the slowdown of disbursements.



10.       As a result of these devielopments, Sudan was left with a difficult
choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to maintain the
projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and borrowing from banks or
other sources abroad. The Government decided to try to sustain the development
effort by using re-erves and by borrowing heavily on relatively hard terms.
Gross international reserves declined from $124 million at the end of 1974 to
$28 million at the end of 1978, enough for only a few days of imports. At the
same time, net foreign assets, which were already negative in 1974 (minus $138
million), fell to about minus $566 million at the end of 1978. As foreign
reserves ran out, the accumulation of arrears became unavoidable. Meanwhile,
external public debt service obligations increased from $55 million in 1973 to
about $300 million in 1978. The debt service burden as a proportion of
exports of goods and non-factor services and remittances increased in those
years from 11 percent to 35 percent. The reasons were (a) the huge amount of
external borrowing in 1974-77 and (b) the fact that a large proportion of the
borrowing was on inappropriate terms (almost 70 percent of total new com-
mitments of $2.5 billion during the years 1974-77 was on hard terms -- averaging
7 percent interest and maturity of 9.7 years including 3.1 years of grace,
implying a grant element of only 11 percent). This unfavorable debt profile
has not only led to a very difficult debt service burden but has critical
implications for future debt service obligations (ref. para. 27).
11.       Sudan's balance of payments problems reflect a number of fundamental
deficiencies in economic policies and management as well as serious absorptive
capacity problems. The latter include infrastructural bottlenecks, which have
been aggravated by increasing shortages of skilled manpower and managerial
talent. The transport system, which in a country the size of Sudan is absol-
utely crucial for effective development, remains unreliable.   Because of the
scarcity of foreign exchange, maintenance of the capital stock -- infrastruc-
ture, generally, but also in the main public irrigation schemes -- has been
insufficient. These problems have been exacerbated by an exodus of qualified
Sudanese managers and craftsmen to the oil producing Arab countries. The
weaknesses in economic management involve mainly: (a) incentives for the
productive sectors, both implied in. the system of taxation and exchange
regime, and those applied through cost sharing arrangements; (b) resource
mobilization and allocation; (c) management of debt; (d) performance of public
enterprises.
12.       A major reason behind Sudan's current troubles has been the wide-
spread price distortions in the agricultural sector, which have hampered
expansion in output, particularly of cotton. This, in turn, has jeopardized
export performance (ref. para. 8). Until June 1978, the foreign exchange
rate remained unchanged at LS 1 = US$2.87. In 1972, an exchange tax/subsidy
scheme was put into effect, except for cotton, which amounted to a de facto
devaluation to LS 1 = US$2.50, coupled with an implied 15 percent export tax
on cotton. Nevertheless, after that the Sudanese pound became an increas-
ingly overvalued currency, as indicated by the excess domestic demand for
foreign currency, and the fact that the inflation rate in Sudan, averaging
about 20 percent a year over the last several years, was about twice as high
as in most industrial countries. In such a situation, exporting sectors
received less for their output than they deserved. Imports tended to be
artificially cheap and were therefore encouraged.



- 5 -
13.       In addition to the problem of an overvalued currency, the system
of explicit and implicit disincentives to growing cotton helped make the
situation worse. For example, under the historic profit sharing formulae,
which have remained in existence in the main irrigation schemes, the expenses
of the schemes were deducted from the proceeds of cotton sales.  This remained
so after the introduction of other crops, and expenses for these crops were
borne by cotton alone.  Profits on other crops, however, accrued entirely
to the tenant. Thus the tenants had a strong disincentive against cotton,
despite the fact that the country's international comparative advantage is
greatest in cotton.
14.       The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases
in expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. In particular,
development spending trebled between 1973/74 and 1977/78 while net external
financial flows declined. The sharp rise in public sector recourse to the
domestic banking system constituted the primary cause of a rapid acceleration
in the growth rate of domestic liquidity, which peaked at 44 percent in
1976/77. The rapid buildup in inflationary pressures resulted in an acceler-
ation of price increases from 6 or 7 percent in the mid-1970s to over 20
percent in 1977/78 and 1978/79.
15.       Most of the increases in current expenditures have been for social
and community services, transfers to local government and general administra-
tion. Most expenditures of local Government, for example, are financed
by transfers from the central Government budget and accounted for 25 percent
of total central Government current expenditures in 1978/79. Transfers in the
past tended to be allocated on the basis of budgetary deficits of the local
authorities rather than on the basis of a rational transfer formula. Efforts
have recently been made, however, to improve these budgetary procedures. The
sharp increases in general administration expenditures are due in large part
to wages and salaries of civilians in the central government, cost of living
subsidies and extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side, tax revenues
have increased over the past few years, but this has been possible only
because of frequent introduction of new tax measures, rather than structural
changes; the tax system per se is relatively inelastic. The main reason for
this is that taxes are based heavily on foreign trade, and the pound value of
exports and imports lagged behind GDP in current prices.
16.       Another contributing factor to Sudan's current crisis is the poor
performance of the public enterprises, which dominate all non-traditional
activities in the country and contribute more than half of GDP.  These
enterprises have not generated anticipated profits or contributed to economic
development as expected. Instead of yielding surpluses, they have relied on
the central Government and domestic borrowing to cover their deficits. Public
enterprise deficits are estimated to have averaged more than US$50 million a
year over the last five years. A study of the public enterprises was carried
out in 1977 by a team consisting of Government, University of Khartoum,
private sector and Bank Group representatives; the final report was issued in
April, 1978. The main shortcomings of the public enterprises, as por'trayed in
the report, included poor management, inadequate internal organization and
control, contradictory and unclear objectives and often changing relations
with ministries and departments.



-6-
Policy Changes
17.       Against this background of serious payments imbalances and general
economic crisis in Sudan stemming from structural maladjustments in production
and trade, the Government in the last two years has taken several significant
decisions aimed at re-establishing financial equilibrium and restoring the
economy's development momentum.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
18.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of an
agreement with the IMF that involved a drawdown of 51 million SDRs from two
support facilities -- the first credit tranche and the trust fund. The
agreement included a devaluation of the Sudanese pound, effectively by 25
percent, and declarations of intent by the Government to keep deficit financing
within certain limits and to limit short and medium term foreign borrowing.
Also, the Government announced that the pricing system in the irrigated
agriculture sector would be reformed and that land and water charges would be
imposed on most crops. In May 1979, agreement was reached on a set of policy
actions to be taken by Government in order to obtain access to resources under
the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for a period of three years in an amount
equivalent to SDR 200 million. Thie policy actions involve essentially an
extension of those agreed as part of the Fund standby in June 1978. Simul-
taneously with these developments, the Government has taken steps -- abolition
of the cotton export tax, institution of land and water charges, revamping of
agricultural production relationships -- which should help considerably to
recast the pattern of financial incentives in the agriculture sector along
lines that are consistent with Sudan's comparative advantage in international
trade.
19.       On September 16, 1979, the Government enacted additional significant
measures with respect to the exchange rate system. These were as follows:
(i) establishment of an official rate of US$2 per Sudanese pound, with valua-
tion of all imports for customs purposes changed to the new official rate;
(ii) abolishment of a special incentive rate for remittances and establishment
of a parallel exchange market with an initial rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25, whereby
some 90 percent of exports, 70 percent of imports and official invisibles,
cash loans and debt service come under the official rate, and all other
transactions come under the parallel market rate; and (iii) agreement to allow
residents and nonresidents to have current accounts with Sudanese banks
denominated in foreign exchange, in which the funds may be freely used for
transfers abroad or for sale in the parallel market, with an incentive for the
holders of these accounts to use their funds to finance the importation of
goods (Government has agreed to provide them preferential treatment in the
granting of import licenses for goods financed in the parallel market). It is
believed that this will encourage the flow of private sector funds to Sudan.
20.       The Executive Board of the IMF approved these changes on September
21, 1979, and in addition, approvecl (i) a drawdown of a second 15 million



SDR tranche under the EFF (the first tranche of 15 million SDRs was pro-
vided in May, 1979); and (ii) a purchase by Sudan of about 17 million SDRs
under the first credit tranche. On November 7, 1979, the Executive Board of
the IMF approved purchases of 36 million SDRs under the Compensatory Financing
Facility, largely on account of the decline in cotton export earnings.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
21.       An essential ingredient in the Government's stabilization program
is a concerted drive to generate greater foreign exchange revenue through
increased exports. This is being carried out under a new Export Action
Program (EAP), initiated in mid-1979 and now formally endorsed by Government.
The EAP is designed to raise the volume of cotton exports at an average rate
of 7 percent per annum during the period 1979-91. Investments and actions
towards this goal would also contribute to larger exports of groundnut and
sorghum, since these crops would also capture some of the benefits of the
program. The EAP comprises (i) a series of urgently needed investments aimed
mainly at satisfying immediate requirements for spare parts, replacement
equipment and inputs of various types, principally in the major irrigation
schemes where the chief export crops are grown (proceeds of the recently
approved Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (ARP) would help fulfill this
aspect of the EAP); (ii) a series of rehabilitation projects to be carried
out in the 1980's, also in the irrigated subsector (the proposed New Halfa
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project would be the first of these); and (iii)
policy and other actions such as institutional reform and revision of cost
recovery systems intended to provide a conducive framework for accelerated
production. Some of these actions have already been taken, others will have
to be implemented as part of the ARP Credit, still others will be done in the
context of the planned rehabilitation projects.
22.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government has reduced the overall
development program, as reflected in the six year plan, to a more realistic
framework consistent with expected external and domestic financial resources.
The Government has recently completed such an exercise for the period 1978/79-
1980/81; it is called the Three Year Public Investment Program, and was
formally endorsed by the Government at the time of the submission of the new
1979/80 annual budget. A central objective of the new program is to redirect
emphasis to those development activities that hold greatest promise for
increasing exports and revenue. To that end, a new interim strategy has been
adopted which sets essentially two criteria for the selection of development
projects: (i) concentration on the completion of ongoing projects, partic-
ularly those in the most productive sectors; and (ii) limiting new under-
takings to those that rehabilitate existing production schemes or that help
alleviate the major infrastructural bottlenecks. This change in emphasis
represents a significant redirection in Sudan's development effort. The
revised three year program provides for a substantial reduction in the total
investment that had been envisioned in the plan for the 1979-81 period; it
also readjusts priorities within and between sectors. Bank staff have
reviewed the new program, and consider its size and composition realistic and
appropriate.



-8-
(c) Public Corporations
23.       For more than a year a special inter-ministerial committee has
been discussing the recommendations of the study group on public enterprises
(ref. para. 16); r cently, the Government has begun to take some action to
help remedy the situation. For example, in September, 1979, the Government
announced the abolition of a cumbersome and overly centralized corporate setup
in agriculture, and decided to replace it with fewer, more autonomous agricul-
tural entities. Organizational changes are expected shortly in the industrial
and commercial sectors as well. This is only a beginning, however, with
more reforms expected and needed in the near future.
(d) Management of External Debt
24.       As indicated earlier (ref. para. 10), Sudan's external debt burden
has been quite heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding
external debt at the end of 1978 armounted to more than US$2 billion and
scheduled debt service payments (principal and interest) for 1979 were almost
US$300 million. Until very recently, the authority to engage in foreign
borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was scattered among many
different ministries and agencies. The absence of a central authority or
unit which had a complete picture of the total debt and which could render
sound judgments on the appropriateness of various foreign borrowing options
further compounded the external debt problem. This inefficiency has now been
ameliorated through the decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing
with the Ministry of Finance. Also, a new debt management unit in the Ministry
of Finance became operational in 1979.
25.       Equally significant, however, are the recent moves to deal with the
severe debt and arrears problems. On November 12 and 13, 1979, a Paris Club
meeting was held on the rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries
(Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands,
Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached
agreement on (i) a rescheduling or a refinancing of amounts falling due
before October 1, 1979 and not paid (arrears); and (ii) a rescheduling or
a refinancing of amounts payable between October 1, 1979 and June 30, 1981
inclusive and not paid (future debt service obligations). This will apply
to loans from governments or public agencies which had original maturities
of more than one year and which were concluded before January 1, 1979.
26.       The conditions of payment of the arrears are a 7 year payment
period with no grace, according to the following schedule: 7 percent of
the arrears to be paid in 1980, 7 percent in 1981, 14 percent in 1982, 14
percent in 1983, 17 percent in 1984, 20 percent in 1985 and 21 percent
in 1986. The conditions of rescheduling of future debt service payments
are as follows: 15 percent of these obligations will have to be paid as
scheduled originally, and the remaining 85 percent will be rescheduled or
refinanced with a 10 year payment period, including 3 years of grace. Interest
rates will be established at subsequent bilateral negotiations. AccQrding to
preliminary estimates, the Paris Club accord involved rescheduling of about



- 9 -
$350 million worth of arrears (out of a total of about US$1.2 billion) and
about $150 million of future debt service obligations. The Government is also
currently negotiating with a consortium of commercial banks in an effort to
achieve additional refinancing.
27.       While the Paris Club agreements were more generous in terms of
period and percentage of debt service covered than other such Paris Club
agreements and will reduce the country's financing gap to manageable propor-
tions in 1980 and 1981, they still fall short of resolving Sudan's medium term
external payments problems. Even if all external debt not covered by the
Paris Club were to be rescheduled on the same terms as those agreed by the
Club in November, Sudan's debt service ratio for 1980 would be 20-25 percent;
more conservative estimates of the rescheduling terms indicate a debt service
ratio of around 35 percent. Under either set of assumptions, there would be a
substantial improvement compared to the ratio of nearly 50 percent that the
nation would probably otherwise have faced.
28.       The Bank/IDA share of Sudan's debt service is 3 percent and of debt
outstanding is almost 9 percent. We estimate that the Bank/IDA share of debt
service will remain at 3 percent in 1985 when the Bank/IDA share of debt
outstanding would be about 10 percent.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
29.       World Bank Group commitments to Sudan to date, including the recently
approved Agricultural Rehabilitation Program, total US$608.4 million. Of this,
US$32.7 million are IFC commitments. There have been eight loans (two on
Third Window terms) and 23 credits for a total of 27 projects. Eighteen
projects and one technical assistance project, funded by UNDP and executed by
the Bank, are under implementation. About 40 percent of the total Bank/IDA
lending has gone into agricultural development: three irrigation projects;
three rainfed mechanized farming projects; three smallholder development
projects, two in the southern region and one in the west; a livestock market-
ing project, an agricultural research project and the Agricultural Rehabilita-
tion Program. Projects in other sectors include: two power projects, two
education projects, two highway projects, a domestic aviation project, four
railway projects, a port project, a technical assistance credit and two credits
to the Industrial Bank of Sudan. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of February 29, 1980 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
30.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been poor, and is becoming worse as a result of the economic crisis. Many
projects have difficulty in getting key materials--cement, fuel, timber,
of which there are periodic shortages. Belated delivery of equipment and
supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most projects. The
continuing drain of skilled manpower from Sudan to neighboring countries,
where job opportunities are better, takes its toll on effective preparation
and implementation of projects. Relatively frequent changes in ministerial



- 10 -
appointments also create problems. Beyond these difficulties there are other
shortcomings traceable to inordinately cumbersome Government procedures. For
example, there have been protracted delays in getting parliamentary ratifica-
tion of agreed development projects and, subsequently, in obtaining legal
opinions from Government. There have also been inordinate delays in meeting
effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in establishing new
institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary
legal documentation or concluding required cofinancing arrangements. These
problems have been brought repeatedly to the notice of Government authorities,
and efforts are being intensified to help resolve them.
Strategy
31.       Bank Group lending continues to emphasize agricultural and infra-
structural investments. For the near term, and in accordance with the Govern-
ment's current economic and development objectives, more importance will be
placed on the rehabilitation and intensification of existing irrigation
schemes and on helping to alleviate key infrastructure bottlenecks. The objec-
tive here will essentially be to help the country generate increased export
earnings to help carry it through the stabilization period. This means that
for the near term at least, the emphasis in Bank Group lending will be on
those activities that promise the greatest and most immediate payoff in
terms of increased exports and government revenues. Less emphasis will be
placed on equity considerations or on trying to distribute the benefits of
development more broadly throughout the society. These goals will be sought
through adjustments in the taxation system and through more rational revenue
allocation mechanisms. It should be noted, however, that investments in more
directly productive activities can have important equity consequences as
well--e.g., to the extent that large irrigation schemes along the Nile can be
rehabilitated to expand production, increased seasonal job opportunities will
result for thousands of laborers from other parts of Sudan. Moreover, recent
experience has demonstrated that several ongoing projects (e.g., Savannah
Development project, Southern Region Agriculture project) were designed in
large part to help meet equity, as well as productive, goals, will very likely
take much longer to implement because of absorptive capacity problems and the
current economic crisis.
32.       This lending strategy is fully consistent with the Government's
policies, as reflected in the new Export Action Program and the Three Year
Public Investment Program (ref. paras. 21, 22). An Agricultural Rehabilita-
tion Program credit, with the objective of helping the country generate
increased export earnings in order to help carry it through the stabilization
period, was recently approved. A related project, recently negotiated, is
designed to improve overall production in the New Halfa scheme, Sudan's second
largest irrigation project. It represents the Bank's first effort in rehabil-
itating an existing irrigation scheme in the country. Rehahilitation of two
pump scheme projects on the Blue Nile and the White Nile have been appraised.
Other projects under consideration include rehabilitation of the Gezira
irrigation scheme (Sudan's largest), an agricultural services project, a
second technical assistance credit to emphasize project implementation, a
second port project, a water supply project and a river transport project.



- 11 -
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Resources and Use
33.       Although preliminary investigations indicate that Sudan might have
some fossil fuel resources (hydrocarbons), imported oil and hydroelectricity
are the main sources of commercial energy. Commercial energy consumption in
FY 1977 was estimated to be about 930,000 tons of petroleum equivalent.
Imported oil covered about 80 percent of these requirements and the balance
was met by hydroelectric generation, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the country's electric energy requirements. Petroleum products are processed
mainly at the Port Sudan refinery from imported crude; however, about 35
percent of the gas oil and 44 percent of the kerosene consumed in the country
are imported, mainly from Kuwait. On the other hand, there is a consider-
able surplus of naphtha and residual fuel which are re-exported since domestic
consumption is negligible. The proposed project and future power projects
would result in a substantial increase in domestic consumption of residual
fuel.
34.       The demand for commercial energy has increased annually at about
5 percent during the 1966-73 period and at about 6 percent annually during
the 1973-77 period. Production of hydroelectricity has increased at a much
higher annual average rate during the same periods--23 and 17 percent respec-
tively. The use of commercial energy by sectors is as follows: Transport
about 40 percent, agriculture 25 percent, industry 20 percent, households
10 percent and government and municipal sectors 5 percent.
Electricity Usage
35.       Although a small proportion of the population (about 8 percent) has
access to electricity in Sudan, this represents one of the highest in East
Africa. For example, percentages of population with access to electricity
in other East African countries are as follows: Tanzania, 7 percent; Kenya,
6 percent; Lesotho 3.5 percent; Zaire, 2 percent. However, present per
capita consumption of electricity annually (about 50 kWh) in Sudan is among
the lowest in the world. Small towns remain without electricity supply and
rural electrification is limited mainly to the more developed irrigated areas
in the Blue Nile and Khartoum provinces (see map).
36.       The Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC) is the main
producer and sole distributor of electricity in Sudan, generating about 90%
of the total electricity produced in the country. Self-generating industrial
undertakings account for the balance. For ease of administration PEWC has
divided its activities into nine operational areas covering the entire coun-
try: Khartoum, Blue Nile, Red Sea, Damazin, Northern, Eastern, Southern
Region, Kordofan and Darfur. Most of these areas contain individual small
diesel plants operating at separate population centers. Only the Blue Nile
Grid and the Eastern areas include two or more interconnected power plants
feeding the major load centers in their respective areas. At present, these
two areas operate their networks independently; however, it is envisioned that
a transmission line tying the two networks will be constructed in the future.



- 12 -
Existing Facilities
37.       PEWC's present installed power capacity is about 234 MW, of which
118 MW is hydroele-tric and the balance is thermal. The principal generating
and transmission facilities are located in the Blue Nile Grid (BNG) along the
Blue Nile with an installed capacity of 177 MW, of which 105 MW is hydro.
The BNG system produces about 90% of PEWC's total energy and supplies (a)
the city of Khartoum and surrounding areas, as well as Sennar, Damazin, Wad
Medani, Hassa Heissa, Es Suki, Singa and other individual centers, and (b)
various irrigation schemes.
38.       The BNG system comprises the following installations:  3 x 30 MW
hydroelectric units at Roseires Station, 2 x 7.5 MW hydroelectric units at
Sennar Station, 2 x 5 MW and 2 x 10 MW steam units at Burri station, 1 x 15
MW gas turbine at Kilo X Station near Khartoum, 8 diesel units (totalling
18 MW) at Burri Station and 9 MW (10 diesel units) at Wad-Medani and Damazin
Stations. A fourth hydroelectric tnit at Roseires Station rated at 42 MW and
3 x 5 MW diesel units at Burri Station, financed by IDA Credit 564-SU, are
scheduled to be commissioned during 1980 and 1981. The Roseires and Sennar
stations are connected respectively, to Kilo X substation (Khartoum) by a 485
km, 220 kV double circuit (only one circuit strung), and a 270 km, 110 kV
single circuit transmission line. Several 110 kV and 33 kV subtransmission
lines interconnect the different step-down distribution substations to the
main grid. Due to seasonal variations in the operating parameters -- i.e.
during March-May hydro generation is reduced as water is used for irrigation
purposes; in July-September power capability is reduced because of low water
ievels--, the effective installed capacity in the BNG at peak times was onlv ll5
MW, 105 MW and 120 MW during July through September, 1978 respectively when
demand was at levels above the system capability and load shedding had to be
enforced.  During January-March, 1979, the total BNG output capability was
148 MW and system demand during the same three month period was 123 MW, 126 MW
and 137 MW respectively and therefore reserves had to be reduced to 25 MW, 22
MW and 11 MW, which is below the rating of a single hydroelectric unit at
Roseires. The condition in 1979 was generally worse than 1978, and new power
production capacity is urgently required. The remainder of PEWC's capacity
(57 MW) is made up of a number of isolated stations in other areas. The
largest of these installations are at Atbara, Port Sudan and Khashm El Girba.
The Blue Nile Grid Present Power Market
39.       PEWC supplies electricity to about 165,000 customers in Sudan, of
whom 121,000 are located in the area served by the Blue Nile Grid, which
produces about 80% of the electricity consu.aed in Sudan. The distribution
of electricity consumption in the BNG by categories during FY 1978, after
allowing for losses of about 14 percent, was as follows: Industrial, 32
percent; residential, 31 percent; agricultural, 16 percent; and others, 7
percent. Total electricity sales in the Blue Nile Grid have increased
annually at an average rate of 11 pesrcent, from 375 GWh in FY1974 to 574 GWh
in FY1978. Simultaneously the system's maximum demand has followed the energy
growth trend, increasing from 86 MW in FY1974 to 126 MW in FY1978.



- 13 -
Future Power Market
40.       Maximum demand is expected to increase from 126 MW in FY1978 to 324
MW in FY1986, or an annual average growth rate of 12.5 percent. Specific
components of aggregate demand are projected as follows: the industrial load
is expected to increase at an average rate of 18.5 percent per annum, from 215
GWh in FY1978 to 424 GWh in FY1982; the agriculture load to increase at an
annual average rate of about 22 percent, from 105 GWh to 231 GWh in FY1982 and
thereafter by an average annual rate of about 10 percent until 1986; residen-
tial loads are expected to follow historical trends, increasing from 206 GWh
in 1978 to about 356 GWh in FY1986 (annual average of 7 percent). The struc-
ture of consumption is thus expected to change considerably, with industry's
share increasing from about 32 percent of BNG's total energy production in
FY1978 to about 40 percent in FY1986; agriculture's share rising from 16
percent to about 20 percent and residential declining from 31 percent to about
21 percent. The BNG total energy requirements, including transmission and
distribution losses, are expected to increase from 670 GWh in FY1978 to 1166
GWh in FY1982, or an annual average growth rate of 14.8 percent. Although
this growth rate is greater than that realized during FY1974-FY1978 (about 11
percent), it is due to the demand that will be forthcoming from irrigation
and industrial schemes which are already under construction and it reflects
only the most conservative expectations. During 1982-1986, energy demand
is expected to increase at a lower average rate, 10 percent per annum, from
1166 GWh in FY1982 to 1712 GWh in FY1986. This lower rate, which is below
the rate actually realized during FY1974-FY1978, reflects the delayed effect
of the recent slow-down in the Sudan's economy.
Past Bank Group Assistance to Power Sector
41.       In 1961 the Bank Group provided US$32.5 million (Loan 284-SU/Credit
2-SU) to the Government to assist in the financing of the Roseires irrigation
project and in 1963 approved an additional US$6.3 million to cover construc-
tion of the substructure and related works for the Roseires power station.
The Bank made its first lending operation to PEWC in 1968 (Loan 522-SU) to
finance the installation of the first three 30-MW generating sets at the
Roseires dam, a 15-MW gas turbine and complementary transmission facilities.
The power station has been in operation since 1971. The original loan amount
of US$24 million was subsequently reduced to US$19 million due to savings on
construction of transmission lines. In 1975, a credit of US$23 million (564-SU)
was approved to help finance an expansion program that included: (a) addition
of 15 MW of diesel generating capacity at the Burri thermal station in Khartoum;
(b) addition of a 42-MW generating unit at Roseires; (c) complementary exten-
sions of the transmission system; (d) addition of 5 MW at the Juba diesel power
station and upgrading of distribution there; and (e) studies for future power
expansion and technical assistance to help improve PEWC operations. A Pro-
ject Performance Audit was completed on the Roseires project (SecM74-490)
and circulated on July 10, 1974. It concluded that the decision to build a
dam at Roseires was right, given the high priority of irrigation for the
development of Sudan and particularly the high profitability of cotton
production in the Blue Nile area. Although the original justification of
the dam was based solely on irrigation benefits, its large hydroelectric



- 14 -
potential alone was significant enough to have justified the investment. An
Audit Report (SecM76-350) was also prepared on the Roseires Power project
(Loan 522-SU) and circulated May 13, 1976. The experience with this project,
the report concluded, pointed up some of the difficulties encountered by a
weak institution in carrying out a large and sophisticated program of expan-
sion and at the same time attempting to overhaul and improve its financial
management. The second power project (US$23 million Credit 564-SU) has en-
countered some problems in implementation and institutional reform. However,
some positive development have occurred in development planning, financial
management and in market studies. A foreign exchange cost overrun of about
US$9.5 million equivalent is being financed by the OPEC Special Fund.
Future Power Development Strategy
42.       In keeping with its current strategy of emphasizing only those
development projects that alleviate key infrastructure bottlenecks or that
help to improve production in existing agriculture schemes, the Government
intends to concentrate efforts in the power sector on the Blue Nile grid,
which provides most of the nation's energy supply. The cost of energy is
relatively high in Sudan due to geographic features of the Nile valley
(a gentle gradient through nearly flat land) which require extensive works
even for a very small head of water in hydroelectric schemes and the con-
sequent necessity to use large turbine-generator sets which can accommodate
large quantities of water. One main objective of future development in the
sector is to supply vitally needed energy for pumps and machinery in the major
irrigation schemes, where the country's principal export crops (long and
medium staple cotton, as well as groundnuts) are grown, and for agriculture
based industries. Without assured supplies of power, these schemes would not
be able to function and Sudan could be deprived of its main source of foreign
exchange.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The proposed project emerged from consultants' studies financed
under the last Bank Group lending operation for power development in the
Sudan (Credit 564-SU, June, 1975). The project was appraised in August,
1978. A report entitled "Sudan - Power III Project" (No. 2399a-SU dated
March 25, 1980) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington from September 5-11, 1979. The Govern-
ment was represented by a delegation headed by Dr. Abdel Rahman Abdel Wahab,
Undersecretary, Ministry of National Planning. Annex III contains supple-
mentary project data.
Project Background
44.       Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners/Merz and McLellan of U.K., PEWC's
consultants, prepared a feasibility study for the future power development
in the Blue Nile Grid (BNG) area through 1986. One of the main factors that
affected the study was the choice of power generating plants with the shortest
construction periods for the initial stages of development so that pressing



- 15 -
needs could be covered as soon as possible. The resulting BNG Development
Program would meet the energy and power demand requirements for the period
1981 through 1986. The program would require a total investment of about
US$340 million excluding interest during construction which is estimated at
US$48 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$273 million.
In order to facilitate the financing of the considerable foreign exchange
requirements, the BNG Development Program has been divided into two parts:
Part A, the proposed project to be financed by the ODA, Germany, IDA, and
Part B, a future project, for which financing is required to be secured
during the first half of 1982. It is envisioned that this future project
would include, as a major component, installation of additional steam gener-
ating units at the new Khartoum North thermal station.
Project Description
45.       The proposed project comprises the first phase of a two-phase
development program designed to provide additional generating capacity and
transmission extension to meet the growing demand of the Blue Nile Grid up
until 1986. The project would also provide institutional improvements and
strengthening of PEWC's organization and operations through a comprehensive
management and staff training program. The project would include the
following components:
IDA Financing
(a) Addition of the fifth and sixth hydrounits (40 MW each) at the
Roseires hydroelectric station and embedded parts of the seventh
unit, including engineering and site supervision.
(b) Reinforcement of the 33-kV transmission circuits between Burri
and Khartoum North, including engineering and site supervision.
(c) Extension of the existing Khartoum North substation facilities,
including engineering and site supervision.
(d) Engineering and site supervision (consultancy services) for the
Burri diesel station and the second 220-kV transmission circuit
between Sennar junction and Kilo X substation.
(e) Management and staff training, including laboratories, workshops
and equipment.
BMZ (Germany) Financing
(f) Stringing of the second 220-kV transmission circuit between Sennar
junction and Kilo X substations, excluding engineering and site
supervision.
ODA (U.K.) Financing
(g) Installation of about 40 MW diesel generating capacity at the
Burri thermal station, excluding engineering and site supervision.



*- 16 -
(h) Installation of about 60 MW oil fired steam turbine plant at
the new Khartoum North thermal station, including engineering and
site supervision.
Project Cost and F.nancing
46.       The project cost is estimated at about US$245 million equivalent,
of which about US$196 million is tha foreign exchange component. These
estimates do not include interest dufing construction of about US$45 million.
The project represents about 73 percent of the total cost of the BNG Develop-
ment Program 1978-1986. PEWC consultants prepared the cost estimates on the
basis of recent quotations from manufacturers and contractors' offers for
similar equipment and works. The Government has indicated that it would
exempt the project imports from duties and taxes. The base costs are at July
1979 price levels. Physical contingencies have been calculated at a rate of
15 percent of base costs on all project components except for the Roseires
hydroelectric units where 10 percent was used for electrical and mechanical
works. Price contingencies have beien calculated on the basis of the following
assumptions: local costs are assumed to escalate by 18 percent in 1979, 14
percent in 1980, 11 percent in 1981, 9 percent in 1982 and 8 percent in
1983-86. Annual foreign price escalation for civil works and equipment has
been taken at 9 percent for 1979, 8 percent in 1980, 7 percent in 1981 and 6
percent thereafter. To minimize the risk of cost overruns on the main IDA-
financed components, bids for the Roseires hydro units were received in recent
weeks and they are within cost estimates shown in this report.
47.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$65 million would provide about 22
percent of total financing required. The United Kingdom, through its Overseas
Development Administration, is expected to provide the equivalent of US$114
million, representing 39 percent of the total financing required, and Germany
is expected to furnish US$25 million. equivalent, or about 9 percent. The IDA
and ODA contributions would be used solely to finance foreign exchange costs;
however, the German contribution, to be provided on a parallel basis, would
cover both the foreign cost (estimated at about US$17 million equivalent) and
the local cost (estimated at US$8 million equivalent) of the second 220-kV
circuit between Sennar and Kilo X. Both the ODA and BMZ contributions would
be provided on a grant basis. The balance of the financing, about US$86
million equivalent, would be provided by Government and/or PEWC as follows:
The entire amount of interest during construction, estimated at US$45 million
equivalent, would be treated as Government's contribution to the project; the
remaining local, costs of about US$41 million.would be met from PEWC's internal
cash generation. Completion of the cofinancing arrangements is proposed as
a condition of Credit effectiveness (ref. Section 5.01(b) and (c) Draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). Proceeds of the Credit would be onlent to PEWC for
a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace at 12 percent annual interest.
Annual inflation in Sudan has averagesd 18, 17 and 25 percent respectively in
1976, 1977 and 1978; the present ratea is estimated at 20 percent per annum and
is expected to decline gradually to 8 percent in 1983. The proposed onlending
rate is in line with the interest charged by the Bank of Sudan on loans to
public corporations but higher than the 8 percent the Government has been
charging PEWC for on-lent foreign loans. Government would assume any foreign



- 17 -
exchange risk. It is proposed as a condition of Credit effectiveness that the
onlending arrangements between the Government and PEWC be executed (Section
5.01 (a), Draft Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       All contracts with estimated cost exceeding US$100,000 for civil
works and for the supply and installation of material and equipment to be
financed with funds from the proposed credit will be awarded under inter-
national competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines on procurement. Competitive bidding in accordance with other
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (e.g. international and local shopping)
will be appropriate for a few contracts not exceeding US$100,000. Total
expenditures under such procedures would not exceed US$500,000. All equipment
and material would be imported as there are no local manufacturers in this
specialized field. Procurement for those project elements financed by ODA
and BMZ would be based on the procedures of these institutions.
49.       Funds from the proposed IDA credit would be applied to the payment
of 100 percent of the foreign exchange expenditure for: (a) the installation
of number 5 and 6 hydro-units and the embedded parts of number 7 at Roseires
Power Plant; (b) the consulting services for Burri Diesel Station, and for the
stringing of the Sennar-Kilo X second circuit line; (c) management and staff
training program; (d) extension of the existing Kartoum North substation
facilities and for reinforcement of the 33-kV transmission circuits between
Burri and Khartoum North. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
December 1985. PEWC has been provided with an advance of US$1.0 million from
the Project Preparation Facility to engage consultants to complete the bidding
process; the PPF would be reimbursed from the proposed credit.
Project Implementation
50.       The project would be implemented by the Public Electricity and
Water Corporation (PEWC). Although officially formed in 1975, PEWC's origin
actually dates back to the early 1900's when a group of British companies
negotiated an agreement to provide electricity services in the cities of
Khartoum, Khartoum North and Omdurman by forming the Sudan Light and Power
Company. Management and organization of the power sector went through several
changes before the formation of PEWC. Indeed, the 1975 Act creating the PEWC
proved to be deficient in many respects and in August, 1978 new legislation
was passed to ameliorate the situation.
51.       Unlike its predecessor, the new Act provides for a board of direc-
tors without any of the PEWC departmental managers as members; thus, it sepa-
rates policy making from operational functions and thereby helps to remove
a source of conflict and confusion which, in the past, tended to undermine
both of these functions. The new Act also changed the composition of the
Board of Directors. The 15 member board is headed by a nominee of the Presi-
dent of Sudan as chairman and includes undersecretaries of the Ministries of
Finance, National Planning, Industries, Irrigation; three representatives of
the President of Sudan; a representative of the People's Local Government;



18 -
five members representing trade unions and the general manager of PEWC itself.
The 1978 Act places PEWC under the direct supervision of the President or a
person designated by him and provides (as did the previous act) the legal
framework for autonomy of administration and the authority to plan, develop
and operate an efficient and financially viable electricity and water supply
system. Except under special circumstances, the Board is required to meet
once every three months and is expected particularly to review PEWC's activi-
ties relating to electricity and water supply services and to submit reports
and proposals thereon to the Presidlent of the Republic.
52.       The Board is authorized under the new Act to delegate its powers
to the general manager, and it has done so to enable him to manage PEWC's
activities effectively, particularLy in respect of staff appointments, trans-
fers and promotions, and procurement up to a reasonable limit. The general
manager is also required to submit annual budget estimates and tariff
proposals to the Board.
53.       PEWC's main departments are Electricity, Water, Administration,
Regions, Commercial, Supplies and Finance. Almost the entire organization
operates at inadequate levels of efficiency, reliability and discipline.
Although some basic statistics are recorded, very little work is done on
matching, summarizing, comparing, analyzing and reporting the results.
The departmental managers, the general manager, the Board of Directors and
the Government receive very little information relating to the operations
of the corporation. The project therefore contains a substantial training
component which would include a program designed to increase management skills
throughout PEWC. It is important to ensure that PEWC is under sound manage-
ment at all times and is capable of achieving an efficient standard of opera-
tion.  Confirmation was obtained during negotiations that PEWC should at all
times employ appropriately qualified and experienced staff including manage-
ment staff to fill the positions of Director of Electricity, Director of
Water, Director of Finance (Section. 3.02, Draft Project Agreement).
54.       PEWC is heavily overstaffed, particularly in the unskilled category.
Electricity and water operations jointly have about 14,600 employees, i.e.
one for every 23 consumers or meters. A realistic initial objective for PEWC
to achieve would perhaps be between 35 and 40 active meters per employee,
considering conditions in the Sudan where staff training needs are consider-
able and operations scattered. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with Government and PEWC that no additional non-technical, unclassified staff
would be engaged until after PEWC has achieved a proportion of more than 40
active meters per employee (ref. Section 3.03, Draft Project Agreement).
Operations and Maintenance
55.       Economic operation of the Blue Nile Grid system depends to a large
extent on the maximum utilization of Roseires hydroelectric power plant.
However, several problems have adversely affected operation of this station:
(a) siltation of water intakes and blocking of trash-screens; (b) lack of
proper maintenance and operational schedules of power plant; and (c) vacancies
for about two years in key technical positions at Roseires and in the elec-
tricity department. These problems were discussed at negotiations and both



- 19 -
Government and PEWC confirmed that considerable progress is being made in
resolving them. For example, PEWC has received funds under an ODA program
which are being used to purchase spares and equipment necessary for proper
maintenance. In addition, a high level joint committee, including represen-
tatives from the Ministry of Irrigation, has been set up to ensure proper
maintenance of the Roseires dam reservoir, including silt removal. Finally,
almost all senior positions which had remained vacant in the past have now
been filled.
56.       Existing thermal plant output is severely restricted due to lack
of spare parts for cooling systems, boilers and diesel engines. Delays and
difficulties in opening letters of credit and non-availability of foreign
exchange are the main causes of the problems. To improve this situation
the Government has agreed to streamline procedures followed by the Bank of
Sudan for opening letters of credit and those followed by the Ministry of
Finance for review of tender evaluations.
Training
57.       PEWC maintains two levels of training programs for its staff:
(a) Technical personnel are sent abroad for practical and academic training
for periods ranging from 1 to 2 years; (b) skilled workers attend an appren-
ticeship program which includes two years of theoretical training and two
years of on the job training. Since present programs do not satisfactorily
fulfill PEWC's requirement, the Electricity Supply Board of Ireland has been
requested by the utility to prepare a detailed training and development plan
for all staff, including establishment of laboratories, workshops, and provi-
sion of special training equipment. Draft proposals have been reviewed by
PEWC and IDA and are satisfactory. These proposals would be included as part
of the training component to be financed under the Credit. Final training
proposals, along with their timetables for implementation, will be submitted
to the Association for its approval by July 1, 1980 (ref. Section 2.04, Draft
Project Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
58.       PEWC's accounts are decentralized and maintained at various area
offices. At the head office in Khartoum, only the accounts of that office are
kept. The regional offices do not send periodic accounts, income statements,
balance sheets or other reports to Khartoum more often than once every year
after the close of financial year. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that accounting information and management reports would be prepared in
respect of all of PEWC's regional offices and consolidated with the head
office accounts no less frequently than at quarterly intervals starting from
July 1, 1980 (ref. Section 4.03, Draft Project Agreement).
59.       PEWC's external auditors are appointed by the Auditor General of the
Sudan, generally well after the closing of PEWC's accounts and consequently
the auditors' report becomes available long thereafter. The Association has
written to the Auditor General about this delay and assurances have been
obtained that the auditors would be appointed in future no later than six
months before the end of financial year so that they can report on the accounts



- 20 -
immediately after the closing of annual accounts (ref. Section 4.02, Draft
Project Agreement). A further problem involved substantial arrears in payments
to PEWC from Government agencies and public corporations. The estimated net
total due to PEWC as of June 30, 1979 was 2.0 million Sudanese pounds. The
problem was discussed at negotiations and adequate procedures for prompt
payment of arrears were agreed. Subsequent to negotiations, the Ministry of
Finance confirmed to the Association that 0.9 million of the total arrears had
already been remitted to PEWC and stated that the balance would be paid in
monthly installments from March to June, 1980, by which time the balance due
would be reconciled and settled in full. So far as future procedures are
concerned, the Ministry confirmed that PEWC's bills to Government departments
and provinces would be settled through quarterly payments of budgeted amounts
for electricity and water supply expenditures. Payments would be made cen-
trally by the Ministry of Finance, subject to reconciliation and final settle-
ment after the end of each financial year. These arrangements are satisfactory.
PEWC's Finances
60.       PEWC's balance sheets as of June 30, 1976, 1977 and 1978 indicate
that its cash position and current ratio during these years have been satis-
factory, principally because of government injection of funds in form of
grants and equity investment or through special external assistance. Accounts
receivable on June 30, 1978 were equLivalent to about 158 days' sales revenue
which indicates an unsatisfactory situation in billing and collections.
PEWC's debt/equity ratio on June 30, 1978 was 15/85, indicating that it is
conservatively capitalized. PEWC's equity capital represents the net value
of electricity and water supply assets contributed by predecessor corporations
since 1971, grants, advances made by the Government, retained earnings and the
net increase due to revaluation of fixed assets. PEWC annually revalues its
net fixed assets.
61.       After the implementation of electricity and water tariff increases
averaging about 30 percent and 34 percent respectively in September 1975, it
was expected that the higher revenues generated would help restore PEWC's
financial viability. However, PEWC's electricity operations during the two
years ended June 30, 1978 generated funds sufficient to finance only about
19 percent of the electricity development program. Energy sales during these
two years were 11 percent and 5 percent below the estimates made during the
appraisal of Power II Project, while operating expenses were 44 percent and
39 percent higher. This was mainly 'because of larger than expected increases
in wages and materials costs.
62.       As a result of these developments, PEWC was not able to meet the
rate of return covenant of Credit 564-SU, requiring the utility to earn a
minimum of 8 percent annual net operating income on average revalued net fixed
assets on its electricity operations and 4 percent on its water supply opera-
tions. Additionally, in incurring some long-term debts, PEWC marginally
contravened the debt service coverage requirement of a ratio of 1.5:1 (internal
cash generation to debt service). PEWC's financial position is expected to
improve, however, after increases of 100 percent in electricitv tariffs and
200 percent in water supply tariffs which were implemented on Julv 1, 179.
After these increases, electricity and water tariffs now average US cents 10



- 21 -
per kWh and US cents 40 per m respectively and are among the highest an
Africa.  The debt service ratio covenant from the second power project bta.
been repeated in this project (ref. Section 4.05, Dra't Project AgreQ      e ;
63.       Present eiectricity and water supply tariffs are adequate to provide
sufficient funds to meet requirements of operating expenses, debt service and
normal capital expenditure, and to meet the rate of return covenant relating
to electricity and water operations (ref. Section 4.04, Project Agreement),
Electricity operations are estimated to produce rates of return in excess of
8 percent per annum on revalued assets until FY83. Tariff increases would
need to be implemented thereafter, however, at the rates of 4 percent, 16
percent and 19 percent in July, 1983, 1984 and 1985 respectively to acheive
the 8 percent return level.  Water supply operations are expected to produce
rates of return in excess of the covenanted 4 percent per annum until FY84.
Thereafter, tariff increases would have to be implemented at the rates of 5
percent and 8 percent in July, 1984 and 1985 respectively to achieve the A
percent return level. The Government has also agreed to cover any deficizt
arising between net internally generated funds from PEWC's water operations
and the cost of its water supply construction program (Section 3.03, Draft
Credit Agreement).
Project Justification and Risks
64.       Present demand in the Blue Nile Grid (BNG) is greater thana 
available supply and will remain so, even after commissioning of the Ongciag
construction of the Power II project at Roseires and Burri diesel power sta-
tions and after increasing the existing thermal capacity by rehabilitat ing
the existing steam units at Burri. If the already, or nearly, completed
industrial and agricultural projects are not to remain idle, power generating
facilities must be installed in the BNG as early as possible. The consultants'
feasibility study for future power development of the BNG was based on a care-
ful analysis of (a) existing facilities, (b) present power market situation,
(c) expected demand for power and energy and (d) several alternatives of
plant addition to meet the requirements.
65.       The urgent need for new power facilities limits the choices in the
earlier stages of the development program to the installation of diesel or
gas turbine units at Burri and/or Kilo X stations and the extension of the
existing Roseires hydroelectric station. Gas turbine plant, which requires
distilled fuel for its operation, was eliminated as analysis proved that it
was less economical in comparison with diesel sets, which can use part of
the residual fuel oil that Sudan's energy market cannot now absorb. Although
space is available for three additional sets at Roseires power station,
restriction of water during the period of low reservoir levels limits the
addition to two units (5th and 6th). Additional possibilities are limited to
oil based steam turbine plants since further hydro-development would require
heightening of Roseires Dam or development of new sites, both of which are
very long-term propositions. Four alternative programs of power plant addi-
tions were developed together with a realistically estimated construction
period for each type of plant considered. The programs were assumed to meet
the BNG's energy and power requirements during the period. System simulation



- 22 -
studies were conducted for monthly power and energy allocations during dry and
medium water year conditions for all alternative solutions taking into account
BNG's existing and proposed hydrothermal generation plant capability. Embedded
parts of unit number 7 at Roseires (penstock, gate and spiral casing) are
justified for the following reasons: (a) due to space limitations in the
powerhouse, installation of these parts for unit seven alone would have
presented major erection difficulties in the future; and (b) due to the small
size of civil works, it would be imLpractical and more costly to undertake
these works for one unit at a time.
66.       Comparison of the net present capital and operating economic costs
of the alternatives demonstrated that the recommended hydro/thermal program
is the least cost solution at discount rates of up to 100 percent. This
is substantially higher than the opportunity cost of capital in the Sudan,
estimated at 12 percent in real terms. Sensitivity analyses have been carried
out to evaluate the effects of (a) variation in capital costs, (b) variation
in fuel costs and (c) lower load growth. Capital cost variations of + 10
percent and fuel cost variation of .+ 25 percent were assumed and the selected
program remains the least cost solution at discount rates of up to 100 percent
(in the case of 10 percent capital cost increase and 25 percent fuel cost
reduction). Lower load growth has been assumed for the period covered by
the study (10 percent as compared with 12.5 percent "probable" average load
growth) and it is demonstrated that the selected program is the least cost
solution at discount rates of up to 100 percent.
67.       The rate of return of the proposed BNG development program at present
tariffs is estimated at approximately 16 percent. The rate of return would
drop to about 12 percent, if costs were 10 percent higher than estimated and
expected revenues 10 percent lower. However, it is unlikely that costs would
be higher, as estimates are based on recent experience and are relatively
high. Furthermore demand growth estimate is already conservative. In cal-
culating economic costs, shadow prices were used for valuing all imported
inputs (foreign exchange component) and all direct taxes were omitted.
68.       The physical risks of the BNG Development Program are negligible.
Other risks which have been considered are those relating to (a) shortage
of local funds if PEWC's financial viability is not maintained; (b) institu-
tional and management weaknesses, and (c) delays in project implementation.
Financial viability of PEWC would be assured with the help of adequate tariffs,
and improvement in billing and collections, management and staff training.
The reconstitution of PEWC's Board of Directors in August, 1978 should help
correct institutional weakness. In addition, the proposed program of manage-
ment and staff training is comprehensive and designed to further strengthen
the utility's administrative capabilities. The Government has agreed to
streamline procedures for tendering and procurement. The proposals for
improvement have been reviewed by the Association and are considered satis-
factory; their implementation will be monitored closely during project
execution.
69.       The project is not expected to have adverse impact on the
environment.



- 23 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the PEWC and the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special features of
the Credit Agreement are referred to in Section 3 of Annex III. In addition
to the features of the Development Credit. Agreement which are listed in the
text and in Section III of Annex III, the following features are of particular
interest:
(a) Additional conditions of effectiveness include:
(i)  Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and PEWC (Section 5.01(a), Development
Credit Agreement);
(ii)  Conditions precedent to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under the ODA Grant Agreement and
signing of the KfW Financing Agreement (Section 5.01(b)
and (c) respectively of the Development Credit Agree-
ment).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMENDATIONS
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
March 26, 1980



- 24-                                               ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFEgENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
LAND A?RA (THOUSAND SQ. M,5)                  SUDsN                           - MOST RECENT ESTIM.ATE) -
TOTAL           Z505.                                                     SAME        SAlE      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICUL-URAL     315.0                                 MDST RECENT      GEOGWRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMAT  /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /t
GM  PER CAPITA (USS)                  150.0       180.0     320.0            306.1      467.5       1097.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALE2NT)      52.0       130.0     143.0             80.6      262.1        730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      11.3        14.1      16.9
RBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 10.0          16.0      20.0             17.1       24.6         49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       31.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (.MSLLIONS)                        89.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. rx.                         5.0         6.0       7.0             18.4       45.3         44.6
PER SQ. K. AGRICULTURAL LAND      37.0         46.0      54.0             50.8      149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.3         45.3      45.0             44.1       45.2         41.3
15-64 YRS.                         53.0         52.0      52.0             52.9       51.9        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7         2.7       3.0              2.8        2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.3       2.6              2.7        2.7          2.4
URBAN                                *-         6.9       6.9              5.7        4.3         4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0        45.0      45.0             46.3       39.4         31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      25.0        21.0      19.0             17.2       11.7          9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.4       3.2              3.1        2.7          2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARlIED WOMEN)    ..           ..         ..              ..       13.2         34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF 700D PRODUCTION
PER CAPtTA (1969-71-100)           86.5       100.0     103.0             94.3       99.6        104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   81.0         72.0      88.0             89.5       94.7        105.0
PROTEINS (GRAI(S PER DAY)          55.0        63.0/h    65.1             55.8       54.3        64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        23.6      23.1             17.9       17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      46.0        38.0      31.0             22.3       11.4          8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    39.0         43.0      46.0             47.0       54.7         60.2
INFANT ItORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        1:2.0/g       ..              ..       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TTAL                                 ..          ..      46.0             20.3       34.4        60.8
URBAN                                                    49.0             53.9       57.9         75.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      45.0             10.1       21.2         40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        16.0      22.0             22.5       40.8        46.0
URSAN                                ..                    . .            62.5       71.3        46.0
RURAL                               ..                                    13.9       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         31000.0      13660.0    9760.0          17424.7     6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PER qIURSING PERSON    2940.0/f    1940.0    1260.0            2506.6     1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            1000.0       930.0     960.0            502.3      726.5       453.4
UR8AN                                ..          ..    260.0            201.4       272.7 7      53.1
RURAL                                *-          *-    2580.0           1403.6     1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..     1i.9              23.4       27.5         22.1
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         5.1        ..              4.9        5.4         5.3
URBAN                                ..         5.7/i      ..              4.9        5.1         5.2
RURAL                                ..           .    .                   5.5        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE NIISER OF FERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..         ..1.9
URBAN                                           2.5/L      ..               ,,         ..         1.6
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS TO E.E;TRICIY (PERCENT
OF DIWELLlNS)
TOTAL                                *-        26.4/i       ..              ,,       2S.1        50.0
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..       45.1        71.7
RURAL                                ..          ..        .,               ,,        9.9        17.3



- 25-                                            ANNEX I
Page 2
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHlEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SA?tE       SAKE     NEXT HIGHER
MOT RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       LNCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EYROLL.NT RAT-S
PRLMARY:     TOTAL                25.0        33.0      39.0             59.0       82.7       102.5
MALE                 35.0        41.0      49.0             64.2       87.3       108.6
FEMALE               14.0        Z6.0      30.0             44.2       75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0         7.0       13.0             9.0       21.4        33.5
MALE                  5.0         9.0      18.0             12.0       33.0        38.4
FMiALS                1.0         4.0       8.0-             4.4       15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   3.0          1.4/j    1.0/1. k         7.0        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRILARY                           41.0        47.0      39.0             42.2       34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                         20.0        17.0      22.0             22.9       23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       13.1        15.0/1    20.0             20.8       54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.4         2.0        ..              4.0        9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0        79.0        ..             44.3       76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         2.9       6.0              2.9       13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
LNTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  4.0           ..       a.0             5.6       18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8           ..       1.4             0.4        2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3700.0       4500.0   4733.0
PEMALE (PERCENT)                   9.6        10.2       10.6            31.9       29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             85.7        82.0      79.0             77.6       62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.2         7.8      10.0              7.9       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               33.0        32.1       31.5            40.8       37.1        33.5
MALE                                59.1        56.9       55.8            53.9       48.8        48.0
FEMALE                               6.4         6.6        6.7            25.6       20.4        16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4          1.5       1.8             1.2        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGCEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.9/rm       ..        ..               ..       15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  so.17O      49.2/n       ..              ..       48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.0/m       5.1/n       ..              ..        6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.97mi     14.57       ..               ..       16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      137.0           187.6      241.3       270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      80.0             96.8      136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      115.0           138.4      179.7       282.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      100.0            71.0      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..             34.5       24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      85.0             48.7       37.5        35.3
..  Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   'he adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1962;  Li  1970-73 average;  /h  1972; 7i  1965;  /L  Begin-
ning 1970, the duration of general secondary education was reduced from 8 to 6 years;  /k  includes programs
of 5 training centers operated by Dept. of Labor and 17 short-term centers operaced by Mia. of Youth and
Sports;  /1  1966;   /m  1963, Ondurman (urban);  /n  1967-68.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-.26-                                              ~~~~~ANN~EX I
a! 01  SOf].L  flIAT0lR                                                     Page   3
Sot.. A.1,to,og  the tot. 0     f40    01.06000.  9mmoflel]  .dodgd the  Wilt initboritti-0  04 ralbloOl, It soh"seld  1   b. w0t0  tot t00y  WJ  t1 bof Int.ria-
!~to,  ~.o.h .e 0.... of h. Isk of stOheodi,edI dftioitictim .d oamcepti us.4 by differt  o000t01.. 1n ..Ilanting th. dot., Th. dot. -r, oo.tholssi,
aefuLe to dosnribs -dors. of wignituf, Lod4m%*te 3,0, oe oOrno.t.ri.so certain maor difforesw.. b.to0 san                r..
The                      o 0   0a   Indicator ar. p0opa.tin-seigit.d gomistri. mooni a-buil10  thsectromm  .1". of the iodicwto, ud the sect Ppuplatod
ofIW   dot o, goco  wo'oqo.e.of a.11 Laf10t00t-  for Csyitlo  00 ..710 Oi1 Uortwg0 .0d of todlotor. ot A .. as to Wet., WA4 1000t.
Eispose.], IseainM  looam. 00elrib.tl.0 and POosotY ftr otharCountry0 V0190 ore O0P.Natio-osigbtod goomotr0 .00 smnslthout  m0101.  of the  x0tri   -W..loe .04
Oh. O,t P.Paltod ea setry.  3 a          0        O Sths te ooero. f o.ot ieont t0. 1.0di.too. d*esed  00 j.oell..li!Z of d01t. od is 001 uniform. 0.Otio-Po :jbe 00500.04!
L. redatla_.yerofoe_ofrs_d M ato  tosothr t           hee..  aw.. r    ool   .eo.          .oo,ietoooof  oe.oto   MIUslo   b0.o oo.vario  the v.00   f 
indioawr at . do.. MOO.. the cUatr, Ond refcauc  0,000.
?19iI fo.]   otxsoe ore. O~o4e0iig laod ore  .04 i1-14 o.to.                                                                               tootfpoo.e(o..   r..   o   oe~sevdb   ert.  10...
~~.100rJ. - Oat reo.0t oet.tea of apogriou2ur.] a,mi, 000  t~omp-ily                parconts.to   of their 0.095.ti- PoPaotioolo. 10r,0. di.po.]. I ma  LM.0lod
orou.lyfo  coop., pastarsa, .0It.  .0d kito0km  g-400  Or t.                  the ..11.,11.  0.d disposal, cith or oJthout tocolmant, of huson -r t.
U.e fslo..                                                                            sod soote-.otor by cotmr-horas 07510    r the u00 of pit p101i.0 and  -i011r
10it.llatio.-
a09pr  q1    so)ee;0050'50p00                                  tioe         5101i0 . Popuoalo ..loldiid by ochb,r of Pr0t10i05 PhYsiciSAi
1960, 1970. asid 1978 dota.                                 (1Po0 ol);                  :shol.   oleottlvl
f001000:r  00.1. P-Srom - Pepulation 4.111dd by 00.r. Of preotiOlO   Cole
C000T10.   CAPITA - A.0.01 ommumpLo  of Oocsisir onarg                       54ten.  rdote see.... practic.al  -oe., sod aolCssita0nt            0
-d li.go   p.txlmu.m- Mt-.I                       p.               p.bd~   oasr-   gooa,ioteo.    1-Di.01..           41tte]   ,b0.0 004 0rur]. - Fopolatioo Ctotal, 0rban,
ihserML.].ectrioiin to lwnocm  of  "I0 .q,oiu.L.  per 4.ia  lo6o,                       .0  .0  4) vde  bythi Oeotle- akmso of hopito.] b.d. 0.b2.01  in
191, sod 1,976 d".                                                                      7Olio sd pri-t.5 SeocIsd  cho.loe               .tcp1o.1 od -roIitti-,lo.  cleo
"apt.L   r  estblhllemits psorommatly ete, fd by *0 lisit 00. Pbysician.
POP0tAfT00 AND VrZAL. STAThISTMS                                                           Utb.li.kmoat  pr0,142g pri-ncLIaf   tustodls.1 0000 a0 dot 100104.. Rural.
feto, Po o10l. mU4-0eer Ceizliops) - As of jO.]y 1; 1960, 19750, sod                    hospitals., 000.-cr, islonlde hesLth  A  .041.1 osetor. OOt prmaaot10  tfffd0
197dt..                                                                           by * phy.ician Cbol by . .sdlo.]I as.i.taot, cosr., sidolfs, eto.) cihill ottr
100.0 P0 i]. _10  (7ect of total.) . 50t1. of 00.0 do tot.]. yseov tbse;                 o-Petisot .omooidatio  .0d provideo  l i.itod Iooge of -d10.1 fanilitie..
41tootdfottos  of  rb00  oru. my effoct comparability of dat.              Adeiseooordootlld- I.]   ohe   f.esiOOt   rdsoog 00
sm   c=tt.*;  O,  1970, cod 197  data..bail.414bytechco  bed..
Pc0g ti.  Poio tiooocssa.  as,                                                       ui
I,by mg. .04  ex sod toolr .ot]lity .0d fortility            50,00  Sic.Io Iocod Ipes00  per boobod  -Ita, 00b.0  .0d r,oi,
r.t.*. Nreisotise prosuwtor. for sertality rot.. 4      s   of three                A 00.01  cocode'te ofa500   fid]vd                 h   hos lirlo   qoortsr sd
I.].. -feuming life  -epeoocany at birth  nocr.oaiog .ith coaontys.                 their.010...].  A bourder or lodger osy or ey cot b. i.0104.4 in th0
We  ouit. irm-  level, sod fossi. life sepetosy et"ht].ing st                      h..echod for                prtpio]   ..Oss..
77.5 yosare.  The parmote,s for fertility rote Llw. 0000 thre  leo,].             4000    .0r of lrc.prrs     o..  0..04re]     vo0enoe
assuming 4.0110. ta ftttlltly sec-rding to looma Isleo   sod puot                   ct poreoc  Po  rco.io .1.  ors,.droo   cold ooootlo.-  d-sllingo,
so11l  ol"iefo. a           o.Oo.lch toucotry iL than "Seigoe  oo. of th"Os         "oPOCtioety.  Nselio. raoloode  o.           o..t crot-r  .4 m-OcPied p-o,
doe  asibin"Insi of so04..11ty .4 ftrtillty trade for pOc]ect                     Ace.. t0t  flectlett  (ceroe    ofdoll.oo     - t00t.   s0o..4ro]-  Co-
Staionry o-ltim- In  sttionory 000010010  thor, ios W g0th                      to.t.1, urba0, .0d ro..-   elg   r.peotiooly.
iothbirthoMt. I.  quoL to the dooth rt,.4os   o 
.1.0..romalo  c-telet. flU. is aehleoed only after fer-tility rat..       11CATION
de]C to th  rop.lWommat 1-01 cof -it oCt ropr-tuasIse rote, eh.             Adioted  0.011-.t0 Ratios
.00A georotion of          rep].... 100.1, seeetly.  Th  stationary po090-                                                      C---'shc.- oa   o]o04   01.    r     tot.al, ol  and focoo  -crol-
1010  Cit. osi satimatd 00 th. bil, of 000 poj-toCd Wwhoaterlotic..                   OO   f01    ea   t   raylvlt  p-rostg.c  of  -epeoti- proitry
of toc p0oplttob 10 the ye. 200, 0nd the roe of 4o.01.1. of foriltlly                 cOoleopooolt;   -oo1p Ioldc. ohil-oco 0  4-1.1.y ve. 01
r.t. to  -episomt ]..ro.                                                               d.41td0 for dlffcocont 1.cgthe of primmy5 cdo.tioo; for 0000010  0100
1.0  ftotl0ooary Ooolttoe 1.0 resehod - They.r jos,honatt.-010       populatiho         0010eru.] h0400.100  00ro012.001 noy 00.04 IC orcltc500              200--9t11-- 0ppl
.1.0 h"e bee  reoahod.                                                                a.c 00100 or  b.00    th5  ffciol cohool aog.
Pc,ltOSoity                                                                     000405 sOoo I   tote.1  -.l  sd foma.l  - CoePot.d a  1v~co or
MjiS-4 .-Yo.  Ppoulation per oquar  kilmotee C10 hecttre) of                    Z4N;1            4 eooo  ot 1ed  rour yo.r. of  pprovd primary .toosctoiol;
total .rc.                                                                            p-ovdeo gaoeral  -cotio..]. , or t-ouhr trsaig1 instro0-00  2'o Ppupol
Per .o. k.. .elohrLa10d - Ccopebd so sOse  for .prc.].too.1 land                         e.i..Ly of 1.2 00 171 y-.0  f0  g.; ooii-ra0c0000  oegoccllf
0010.                                                                                 -ooldod.
90.P.2.1100 Am  itteocor  Cocct C - Child4.- C0-1I you.) * orkogSa.q                    V-ottoo.l Voo1o    eto   f.oo.~C- 'u.ti o..1  0lt'tlotO  000140
C150Oyere, so,d retire  CO5 yours sod oor) 0* Osscc0t&gs. of mid-y.-o               teo7   l.]. 1400011,     0   thrP060 0t0oprt  odcpoooc-t10or
Ppuplation; 1960, 1.970, sod 1977 do.                                                   dep.tontt. of 0.000d.4   -toot.ltiO.-
Popol.stiom (10.0t0 0.0.  perooto  - totald - An---]. xowoth rot.o of tot.]. oLd-       Puoil-tOsobor rati0 - oriso%f  .04 I00-ry - Toted .t04000.  -20oU0d i0
p0. 700100afr 190-0  1001, 0  1970.77.                                                  primary and  -evOdoy 1e.o4044by 00010. of                    r.000   i0 th0 000r-
Pe,co2.tiom 1,0.0h Rot. Coesoet) - orbe  - d.ose] 5001  rat.. of urbn                     op-4ding I000... a
Populations too 1950-00, 1900-70. a04 10-75.                                          Adolt -1t.recny veto Coero,tC  - Uitor.t. .dolts (041., to rOod and -it.)C 00
Crod  Birh Rt' (or t wd)- Ao.o  11,  births Psi, thousand of 01d-                 ap00-t015  of tote  d ebot 0op02tioO..   d  5 yccC  0d 0-00.
IVAT      1960, 1970,sad 197dot..
Cr.. DttLRot   (y    thusssi  - dos.-.L dootb  pe  thcoos-d of aid-your    cflitmltloTt
Population; l99O7I97i, so  1977 dot..                                               Pa.oogcr Co-  (P,, t0h-0.0  opot,o2.t1 ) - P...eoo  o. g- o- prioc cotor  -0
3ro.- 0Oootloo Ratr  - rvoga mmb00 of d.050h .,r. oia11.1 b.or                          looting5 10..  .. th 1.511h 000000  000104. cniol,oa-.u  booroet sd 0,t1100
in her w0,..] raprdotioe portid if so. ceperi.oc.. p-oeot ag.-                        veolio.I.
sp-01f10 fertilIty rStes; usuall.1y fir--Yc. .00,0g.. sowing to 1990,               R.410 botiv Po oe Ihosod~ Ipool.tioo   - All typo. of 00001000  for -oOio
1970, sod 1975.                                                                       0004..0_. to goorel. poll  p- thousand of pp001.t110;  -001040  OlicO... d
7.0110 Planning - A00...0 to .- Annua  Cthou,aod.od     - Aonnul.]. eber  f             r-ol-r  10 00tr010  004 10 00-0  0h00  ogi.tOOltOl of r0.1  -101  0-  10
Voootors Of birth-ooOtro  d-00tOu     d 0     pic..1.0 of 0t.0000.  000110            0ff0t; dot. for  -.et y00r0 fly cot ho ooeporb.00     010000  000010100.
Plannoing pra-0.                                                                       M.101 d0 lloo-ilg.
Family Pi010      .00Corot o             iodcin   -I P`rutog  of eorrid               TV eOr-c   oo tOco.oooO  ooo0iot  - TVoclcr  for 1b004.01t t0 g--10
o=ftUhld aer.o  bg 1-4yeoo   0   0  brt0.-ct-1] device.? b111  PC   110000d pal.0100t 00100  ma-Lloeood IV 000100  (1 OOtO
001]   .010    -   0 in .  50 Sroop.                                              .0   0400oon  050000   f TV 00.0. .0  it effect.
PCCO 04311 197000100                                              000.00000 Clr      i.oto    ...o 11000  00olti..) - Sho-  1h0 000005go10lin
Ind0 of 000=       .tioo coo Capita (1969-7l110)C  - lodae of P0 0091t.                 0 t.000  prirnoly to  -cordlg gcoor.1  -c.  It 10  ..c. id ..d to be "011y'
.00001. 00000110  00 .1e004 ottie          904010.0004.0. -d -f it 00900r0 at Ist 0000                           -.  ...OOc.
toed .0d 1.00  -e].edo, 5s   bosils.  Cmoditieu  0000  pr0imary Oood.               Cio.- .A-o1 Att00..cc p-0 C.pot. -e  00-  - Boord -0t0 .10 oob- 00 ti040-
Co.g. sugae".ro.o.toeod of sugur) Ohioh .rc 04ibl. and 000.t10 00tr10t.               0010 t,,  100 ye.-, i=1041g 040100100  100000 10.. drl i   i         d 0b11.
Co.-offoo .0  t..  -r   -Iolded). Aggroegto podocti, of 0.00  -try1                  -10..
15 0.00  on "otloo"  u00g              ri000, p1 ig005t..
ecog   qorl~ont of00fo   opIs.oO. 0ootry p.- capita                          Toted100  Pobrc C- 10000t0- 41) - & 000 -01o.U   00110  p-.000, 00010410  0.00
W004.. A-vla1.ho094I    o9r0 dom0110 produotlo,  amo..e0                            foOce,u 004 uhsp91000  bit  -         h-ooO   00 i-0102  t004000, 010  Dofi.it.-
_P_t.0, cod 40.080. In stoo.  Set sPplies _.004  0010.1 food, .cedor,               1.  -010.- uot00101. or0 001 c0.0.p 10.b
q0001111. 0410food 9OO-tulg, .0d 1loe i. .0 Io tOooo. FOquiro.                   000Ceco  - 00=1   lb,,oo             -00. p-ta05  if t101.1 1.00- 000-0
naN000  deima04 by 7A0 0.0d 00 pdyui.loeIto  od. for 00.1 rlolOO  0000  robo_  for-  10 f0.010g, C.-rco5, 0h0010  00d
_0110.115    b.04  t0011  00.14.1g  -oirce.oate  ompcO.o, body 0*1gbt0,             01001.5 00 P000001.0 01 t.ta11.0r f_rc
ago0  000- dlotrbuti-e  of bopultio, sod aloig10 poroto for                       toodotoy Coprocot  - Labor 000-   0  Iin .g, 000t0t00100  0000101 sd
eoite  tb-sh.000d 1.-01.                                                            clet oloaty, ott-  nd Los no p0000t0g0 of 1010.1 104cr foce
it5ll   000o   r110Cs.ordo      Oll 0001000 ot  coo                             Pell-ot Part g R         co)-  00   sl    odfml    P-ii-i0010lolo   o
00010  000ouppy offood  er 40. 51 .0010  f food io dOflood 00          .01011  _eots *0   0000   0  00,cp-             od10.0  aodfre    p-0
.J0.-  'oquiromot. for aU   eOr.. oto.1.0sho  by 4004 proide fr-                    -tcIe.. of toted, u1.o sd ftomb  popolatlco 0  .11  g-0 -opoct-lv]y;
mi0.0.  U -.cao  of ho go.. of 00001 00-101  p.r 4oy  04 20 p.0  of                 190,0 1970, .nd 1975 data,  floo. r . ItfL's p00ti0ipt i0  rt00u 00f100110
ansolos.] 0 u.4Ico. 0000010,  ft 00100 10 gam~ .00.d be .0IMI proZoio.              g50-20  otroor  of th. PoPolItios, .0d 1005 0100 tred.  A fro e,tlo--
The.e otedOodo  -r  lose  M=0 t10.0 of 75 grose  of toted p00t0i  00d               cc  000t11.0110000
25 gos  of ani-I. p00t.1. " 0.0  -og. Too too ooolo, potp ..  by FAl              E..o.l               Rstiocy   .11  R0,11  of 004,0101- 0040  15 004 .5 .0d 000  t0
to th. Third Wrod M00  4000.y.                                                      10   00   0001 5  0gr9 of 15-64 000.-
Pe  000  000t0. socol   froe.1.  and 0010.. - P00010 000010  f food
PL;Ol52  00_  =me. 00  olo   000.90doy.                                          IT10E DITSTRZMIGN
1b114 logo. I-)0011   oe   c  bo.0    U-1Soo d0.000 900 th-tod                        Focot-       f  00.0bO    1011 00.0 -1004 kitd) - 501004d by 01010*1
in5M0 goon;     ~ Y-'.006  to o01lro I0 inth. 050 gpOOP  for 0050 00001-              5 p.rotl,  100 2   p ..01  poret 20p--Oo,  -04p00-1 00 pr0000
09100 00,0tri00 dots 400100  fs  1100 tbOl-o                                          Of 100000100.
0ALTH                                                                                 9000177T 100170 220705
Lit.               Bieoeoy.0010  'yoove  - A00005  0000r of y.r. of life              00t1.010  00001010 9oroty boIs  100I (19 0S$ P., -1c              010 00d4 0001 
rinl.ole*t000;190  190, d 1977. 4.-n                                                  00001010 00-00t5  ooM   10_110 71101 10000  10-0  blOt 00100  -.00
Iof=o  trtaIty doto (o, 11-o0dC  - Annu.1 deatf. of infanlts oodooO                     -OOtritinlly d4.0t. 4.1.t plo. 0.0..001t1 no-food rqOrel     -0t0
fY.  of 00   900t0000   11cc 000th0.                                                   fOdle
A000.. t0 Sofo Vater Coretof001110C-00*                  00   00d roya  -             01.14RlIv    ve0bom 001(9pr                            tC      000sd 0000
o.000100aatOd  100 000  .004.  fo  00010010  000000100, spring.,              with 0400..t00 for Ogor  _05  of 11010  00 J.0000,0
sod Osoltry 0511. C a. ocOoo.50  of t0010  -05.1-t00 00001011000.                   Ft101.0  Po,l.boheo   0.11  pOot   0o0t00   2000)-000
sopb.500     0110,2 010  r.odoo   ood01  sore thin                           ro-LI - 0.000.0 o f 00002.10 00004   0C0000   t00.10p0.
20  mt"rs  r00. a 0.0. soy be 0.001400.d - boiog 010110 ro..o000lr
aoeofthot looSe.  T. nor.1 ar-roo -ieiooloeos-.e-Id 109y
that tfhs  ,.eeif. - 00    br. of th. houoho1d do oot h."e to sPood                                                         F.1000.1  and Social Dt0. D10-110
di.oroptiotlo.t  part of too day 10 fOtthiog to. foully. 5 0t0  -o.d.                                                  00000Ao.ly.i. 004  D030000bpalet-
A05000 1979



27 -                           ANNEX I
Page 4
SUDAN - CeUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DnMzSa xC PRODUCT IN 1974/75 1/                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mlin.       Z                               1972/73-1977/78 (estimates)
GDP at Market Prices          4,338.4       100.0                                         4.5
Gross Domestic Investment       761.0         17.5
Gross National Saving           230.5          5.3
Current Account Balance        -530.5       -12.2
Exports of Goods, NFS           486.5         11.2                                       -2.0
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,041.5        24.0                                        10.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974175
Value Adde&/                  Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Min.                         M min.   %_                      US $         %
Agriculture                    1,681          41.2             3.25       68.7                   517        59.9
Industry                         657          16.1             0.30        6.3                 2,190       253.8
Servicee                       1,745       . 42.7              1.18       24.9                 1,479       171.4
Total/Average               4,083        100.0              4.73     100.0                    863       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1978/79
CLSd. Mln.)                         Z of GDPVJ
Current Receipts                    520                                 14.6
Current Expenditure                 607                                 17.0
Current Surplus                     -87                                 -2.4
Capital ExpendituresAl              198                                  5.5
External Assistance (net)            91                                  2.5
Sept.
KEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                 1974           1975        1976         1977         1978        1979
Tmllon LS outstanding end period)
Money Supply                          277.1          329.5       412.1        588.7       750-6        903.2
Bank Credit to Government             130.9          199.5       293.6        487.7       592.8       685.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector         141.9          206.6       250.9        287.6       366.2       432.0
(percentages or Index Numbers)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)        26.0           24.0         10.0        17.0         25.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector           37.1           52.4        47.2         66.1        21.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector          43.6           45.6        21.4         14.6        27.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ This is the last year for which reasonably reliable GDP data by expenditure are available.
2/ Total labor force; umemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ At market prices.
4/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
Not available
Not applicable
EA2DB
February 1980



ANNEX I
-- 28 -                                  Page 5
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES                                           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76-77/78)
1975   1976   1977   1978                                            US $ Mln.      %
(Millions US $)
Cotton                      294.0       52.0
Exports Goods, NFS              515    696    782    800                  Qum Arabic                    33.4        5.9
Imports Goods, NFS            1,202  1,304  1,492  1,550                  Groundnuts                    99.6      17.6
Resource Gap                   -687   -608   -710   -750                  Sesame                        50.2        8.9
Livestock and Products       20.7        3.7
Interest MLT Debt               -57    -65    -84    -80                  Other                         67.2      11.9
Other Factor Payments             1    -34    -29    -25                      Total                    565.1     100.0
Transfers                       102    188    296    330
Current Balance                -641   -519   -527   -525
Public Grants                    32      21     20      30              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Public MLT Loans, disb.         489    493    156    265
Public MLT Loans, amort.        -79   -119.  -141   -150                                                      US $ Mln.
Total Public, net               442    395      35    145
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        2,075.5
Increase in Arrears               5    245    445    270                  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt             ..
Total Outstanding and disbursed
Change Net Foreign Assets                                  a
t-   increase)      362    104      -       73              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978
Errors and Omissions b/        -168   -225    47        37                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         35.0
Non-Guarantecd Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)        36      24    23       28                Total Outstanding and Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE  c/                                      IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Nov. 30, 1979) (Million US S):
Annual Averages   End Period                                            TPRD       IDA
1977    1978   Aug 79  Sep 79
Outstanding and Disbursed         82.4      144.3
Official:                                                   Undisbursed                        32.0      200.6
LSI = US$            2.872   2.662   2.500   2.000        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  114.4        344.9
Effective:                                            -
LS1 - US$            2.500   2.225   2.000       -
Parallel market:
LS1 - US$              -        -      -       1.250
a/ Includes use of IMF resources.
b/ Includes short-term and private capital movements.
c/ Prior to September 1979, the official rate differed from the effective rate by the amount of export tax/
subsidy charges. After September 1979, these were abolished and a parallel market rate was established
for transactions other than a limited category including government purchases and a few "essential" items.
not
EA2DB
February.1980



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of February 29, 1980)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellations)
Credit No.       Year    Borrower   Purpose                 Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Six Loans and five Credits fully disbursed:                  127.2  77.2
Credit 311       1972    Sudan       Mechanized Farming II          11.3       5.0
Credit 331       1972    Sudan       Highway I                       7.0       0.4
Credit 364-1    1975    Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)             20.0       8.0
Credit 457       1974    Sudan       Railways III                   24.0       3.0
Credit 547       1975    Sudan       Education II                   10.0       6.0
Credit 564       1975    Sudan       Power II                       23.0       1.2
Credit 589       1975    Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan II   7.0         2.6
Credit 614       1976    Sudan       Technical Assistance            4.0       2.0
Credit 643       1976    Sudan )                                     9.0       8.6
Loan 1287T       1976    Sudan )    Domestic Aviation         20.0    -       20.0
Credit 718       1977    Sudan       Savannah Development           17.0      17.0
Credit 727       1977    Sudan )                                     8.0       5.3
Loan 1467T       1977    Sudan )    Railway IV                12.0    -       12.0
Credit 781       1978    Sudan       Port                           22.0      20.2
Credit 782       1978    Sudan       Livestock Marketing            25.0      24.5
Credit 804       1978    Sudan       Mechanized Farming III         16.0      15.0
Credit 834       1978    Sudan       Agricultural Research          15.0      15.0
Credit 882       1979    Sudan       Highway II                     41.0      41.0
Credit 904       1979    Sudan       Southern Region
Agriculture Project          15.0     15.0
Total                                                  159.2 351.5    221.8'
of which repaid                                       78.2   6.7
Total now outstanding                                   81.0 344.8
Amount sold                                   5.8
of which repaid                            5.8          -      -
Total held by Bank & IDA /1                             81.0 344.8
Total Undisbursed                                       32.0 189.8    221.8
/1   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of February 29, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                  Obligor                           Loan   Equity   Total
1964 and     Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972         Textiles                                   1.9    0.3       2.2
1976        Cotton Textile Mills                         8.7    1.3      10.0
1978        Seleit Food Production Ltd.                 11.2    1.2      12.4
1978        Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.              6.7    1.4       8.1
Total gross commitments                     28.5    4.2      32.7
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales:                    6.9      -       6.9
Total commitments now held by IFC           21.6    4.2      25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                     4.0    0.6       4.6
C. PROJECT', IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and twenty-two credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The first education project (Credit 122) has been completed and
undisbursed funds ($200,000) have been cancelled. The second project is some
25-30 months behind the original 1975 appraisal schedule. The delay is due
to the lack of a viable construction industry, transportation difficulties
and weakness in project management. Some change in project scope has been
necessary in surmounting these difficulties. Physical execution of the
project is improving, with the award of the bulk of the construction contracts,
although transportation remains as a constraint.   Close monitoring of the
project is to continue.
Credit No. 311   Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since October 1977, the total number of farms allocated has remained
stable at about 245 (88% of appraisal estimate), although steps are now being
taken to bring this up to the full 280. The road construction program has
made little progress due in part to difficulties in getting spare parts for
MFC's heavy equipment. Repayment of loans by farmers at Umm Seinat has
improved but remains unsatisfactory at some 22%. Explanations given by
management include adverse climatic conditions and unwillingness by farmers to
repay loans received. Repayment at Habila is said to be satisfactory however
- more than 95%. The Tozi Farm Machinery Training Center has made some
progress. Management is now concentrating on an implementation schedule for
disbursing the remainder of the Credit.
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62.0 million Credit of March 30,
and            1973 and July 11, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364-1          and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The Rahad Irrigation Project commenced agricultural production
in 1977 with cotton grown over 50,000 feddans (15 percent of the total
project); cotton yields for the first year were already close to the appraisal
estimate for full project development. Major project civil works have now
been substantially completed on some 206,000 feddans, with 154,000 feddans
under cultivation; both are short of the planned target of 300,000 feddans.
Further delays are expected in project implementation in light of continuing
managerial, financial and logistical problems. A revised allocation of funds
to priority activities is being considered, with a perhaps necessary reassess-
ment of project size or deferment of some less essential project components.
The project is undergoing careful review in an effort to identify mechanisms
to minimize the risks to this and other projects in the agricultural sector in
the future.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 million Credit
of June 24, 1977; Effective Date:  August 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Due to organizational delays and logistical and financial con-
straints, the project as well as the parallel OAD/Abu Dhabi Fund-supported
Southern Darfur project, could not be implemented as envisaged at appraisal.
The Government proposed that both projects be rephased, reduced in scope and
consolidated into a single operational unit. Details on this proposal have
been finalized and are now under consideration.
Credit No. 331   First Highway Project; US$7.0 million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective Date: February 6, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Due to escalation of costs for equipment purchases and feasibility
studies, the project's scope had to be reduced to keep it within the original
credit amount. Major components of the project have been completed; progress
on the balance of the project and compliance with the covenants of the Credit
Agreement are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 457   Third Railway Project; US$24 million Credit of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: July 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement, installation and construction for Sudan Railways
Corporation has largely been completed, as has procurement for the Sea Ports
and River Transport Corporations. The first phase of the Railway Training
School started operating May, 1979. The project should be completed by June,
1980. Locomotive availability rose from 50 percent last year to 57 percent in
October, 1979, and is expected to rise to 73 percent by February, 1980.
Improvement in locomotive and wagon availability led to an increase of 16
percent in freight traffic in the first five months of FY 1980 as compared to
the same period last year. Progress toward the operational objectives for
the railway has been slow due to technical and managerial constraints but is
now improving.
Loan No. 1467T   Fourth Railway Proiect; US$12.0 million Loan of July 8, 1977
and           and US$8.0 million Credit of July 8, 1977; Effective Date:
Credit No. 727   January 12, 1979.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Procurement under the pro'ject is progressing well, with nearly
two-thirds of the credit/loan alreadly committed. Rapidly rising prices, along
with a protracted delay between signing and effectiveness of the project, may
necessitate some reduction in project scope. Co-financing is being provided
by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu I)habi Fund, and European Development
Fund.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1287T   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20.0 million Loan of
July 7, 1976 and US$9.0 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Credit No. 643   Ef-ective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
Management problems have resulted in delays in project implementa-
tion. The project is now moving forward, but has encountered serious financial
problems. Tenders for construction of the three airports came in at levels
far above the appraisal estimate. Potential changes in project scope are now
under consideration.
Credit No. 589   Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:  US$7.0 million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Funds under the first Industrial Bank of Sudan project (Credit 447)
have been fully disbursed, and the credit was closed on June 30, 1979. Under
the second project (Credit 589), US$5.3 million has been committed and US$4.4
million disbursed. There have been problems with overall management respon-
sibility and effectiveness within IBS and doubts about IBS' future role in the
industrial sector. These issues have been brought repeatedly to Government's
notice but no appropriate action has been taken. Consequently, consideration
of a proposed third line of credit for IBS has been postponed indefinitely.
The IBS issues will be discussed again with Government at the next Project
Implementation Review in Khartoum, at which Bank staff will be represented.
Credit No. 564   Second Power Project; US$23.0 million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Contracts for supply, erection and commissioning of generating
plant, transmission lines and ancillary equipment were placed mostly accord-
ing to the program, but delays in award of contracts for civil works at the
Burri diesel station, Roseires hydroelectric station and delayed mobilization
by PEWC's staff for civil works at the Juba diesel station are likely to
delay commissioning of various components of the Project by about two years.
The project cost estimate is now 53% higher than at appraisal and the Govern-
ment has received a loan of US$9.5 million from the OPEC Special Fund to help
meet the foreign exchange cost overrun. PEWC has increased its electricity
tariffs by 100 percent and its water supply tariffs by 200 percent. The
Government changed the composition of PEWC's board of directors, removed
PEWC's departmental managers from the board and replaced them with the
ministerial undersecretaries related to PEWC.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project;  US$4.0 million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date:  October 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project, supported by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, is helping to
finance preparation studies of high priority projects to facilitate Sudan's
public investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established, and
progress has been good.
Credit No. 781   Port Project:  US$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date:  February 2, 1979.  Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides for expansion of the capacity of the existing
berths in Port Sudan and mechanization of cargo handling and movement, improve-
ment of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of bulk, container and
roll on/roll off facilities, as well as management assistance and training.
Design of project civil works has been completed, and the contract for con-
struction awarded, with work scheduled to begin in early 1980.
Credit No. 782   Livestock Marketing Project:  US$25 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: July 9, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Project provides market and transport infrastructure, technical
assistance, a headquarters building and additional staff for the Livestock
and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC), which is implementing the project.
Construction of the LMMC headquarters is 50 percent complete and selection of
sites for 13 markets and 10 holding yards has been finalized. The Sudan
Railways Corporation has contracted to purchase livestock wagons, vans and
underframes, and is currently evaluating bids for locomotives.
Credit No. 804   The Third Mechanized Farming Project:  US$16 million
Credit of July 13, 1978; Effective Date; August 13, 1979
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project objectives are to (a) help present users of mechanized
farming methods become more productive, and (b) support programs designed
to develop mechanized farming methods for smallholders. These objectives
will be pursued through improvement and expansion of the extension activities
of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), programs of adaptive trials and
related research, access road building, importation of spare parts for the
mechanized dryland farmers and reorganization and strengthening of the MFC.



- 35 -                       ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 834   Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 million Credit of
July 27, 1978; Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and strengthen
ARC's new Khartoum headquarters. The research program would be concerned
with integrated livestock and crop production systems, pure livestock produc-
tion systems and water and land use management. USAID is co-financing the
project, and a contract has been signed with the Consortium for International
Development for the provision of a technical assistance package.
Credit No. 882   Second Highway Project; US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project would facilitate the transport and export of agri-
cultural production through construction of the Jebel Aulia to Ed Dueim road
along the White Nile; improve accessibility of currently settled but isolated
areas; provide access to new areas of agricultural development; develop appro-
priate organizational, planning and technical skills in the Roads Department
of the Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport and Roads,
particularly with respect to highway maintenance; and provide detailed
engineering for future priority roads.
Credit No. 904   Southern Region Agriculture Project:  US$15.0 million
Credit of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: February 14, 1980;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The present project, a follow-up to the earlier rehabilitation project
(Credit 476), would assist the Southern Regional Government to implement part
of its regional agricultural development program by strengthening agricultural
services, planning capacity and management and improving physical infrastructure.
Technical         Planning Assistance and Training:  US$1.8 million Credit;
Assistance        Effective Date:  July 1, 1977;  Termination Date:
December 30, 1980
This technical assistance project, funded by the UNDP and executed
by the Bank, provides the services of seven advisers to the Ministry of
National Planning to assist in national, sectoral and annual planning and
improved project identification and preparation. The advisers have encoun-
tered some difficulties in trying to introduce appropriate systems for annual
planning and monitoring, as required by their terms of reference, but other-
wise the project is making satisfactory progress.



ANNEX III
- 36 -
SUDAN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare pro;ject: Ten months
(b)  Preparation by:  Government and Consultants
(c) Initial Discussions with Association: March, 1977
(d)  First Bank Mission:  March, 1977
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: August, 1978
(f) Post Appraisal Mission: June, 1979
(g) Negotiations: September, 1979
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness:  July, 1980
IT. Special Bank Implementation Actions
An advance of US$1.0 million from the Project Preparation Facility
was approved to help facilitate project implementation (para. 49).
III. Special Conditions
(a) Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreement - condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 47).
(b) Additional conditions of effectiveness related to
cofinancing (para. 47).
(c)  Key management posts in PEWC to be filled at all times with
experienced and qualified staff (para. 53).
(d)  PEWC to take steps to reduce numbers of non-technical,
unclassified staff (para. 54).
(e) Training program to be agreed with Association (para. 57).
(f)  Debt service ratio to be enforced (para. 62).
(g) Deficits on water supply operations to be covered by
Government (para. 63).



IBRD 10992R2
Th,s t-a h.s bean pra,dabd the Woo/d Sank  - tff -e-nlys.'l to h. on,dan  O
5ABAZOKA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~   ~   ~   ~  ~  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~o   Ohneda  of ora WOiO pth R roreR plonw An4 A s   dosoph ad  ThedeRtonn,ahomr   rdod R and  ARAe kE 3E Y r    
-16              1 t                                                                     rre'uI oandaos 00000gR, onrf, rho;d hotR otityly. on the pad Of the World Bank and Its  CHD     V 
b-d-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
16               KHARTOUM                                                 I                                                             ,OAD
Orndurrmar  2    Khorlndm North                                                                                                                                      OhAttOLA
%V< *BC                                                 -----
\         >       ~~~~~~Bu,,i                             ,'                      -_        \,                                                          
\KHARTOUM -                                                 /                                                                    KHASM EL            CENTAL '                      ETHIOPIA
SCHE)*9R     AFRICAIN                     '
( l0K Iox   =                            ,, -\                                                                                 ;          ,,  .               |       3_EMPRE
'\  5 JAAU2/A  \                                    -AIPG                                                                                                       KENYA
\/1 DAM<    VGrUl{Rbl   EL GE - IRt                                      X                                               New Hol1fc .
-  '/                                                0                                                                             TF K/M SM EH
0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~o  ELGEZIRA                                                                                                       15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRA  A
40T)mbul
$CHEME      oHe,sso                                                       BUTANA   AREA
I   MANAoSf SCsE                                                      / LI  gAttAt STAGE 1/
/                              .                            ... et on......<) 
A, \,,    ,  /   N o:SEIiN4Ne g  <                    KASSALA                                                       WI
W A D L OM E  SS_                                                                                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
SCH M E~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CTBH0d
WHITE NILE, , 
RSbDAN                                           SORM,                                                 <
PUBLIC ElECTRICITY & WATER CORPORATION  \;                                                                                           
MTMTHE BLUE NILE GRID                                                89           BLUE NILE                  >          
A      Hydro Stofio,,s                           E.istig 1-rgotmo  Scee                                             0       ,      /VU 
The,,,al/GcsT,,b,,,e/                      E.istm,g Irrigot-nShme<X                                                    FGAEPR
Dlesel Stcho,,s                          EetemsoI,s                                   !t
-    220 kV  Lrnms iontns                     Roilwoys                       /    \\      l                      r        t//
*---------.  -  10 kV T-cs-iss-o Lmes       E r       idges|  F i I 
()S,,bstDtio,,s                             R,vers l/\\t\\Sdn1
.1--       - Pm,,oalnc Boun,danes                                                                                 Y                                                                            12-  f ~
2    PROJECT                           _,         ,Ite,oct,onol Boundcries     N          ;&tL w                                                                                         2
Hydro, St.tio,,                                                                                                            \t                                 FR 1T A 
~: Thermol/ Diesel StatorIos                                                   D        '}r                                    
=-=220 kV Tronsmission LmOes 4MSEKSD/I\    
0   0   0      60       80     10          '.                                                                                 / ;
33t KILOMETERS                                                                           )                 
33'                              34                   E                      3s- j~~~~34                                   36-      OCTOBER 1978



