CREDIT NUMBER 1006 SU
Project Agreement
(Third Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
Dated                2- 42         , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1006 SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         'AzL 1_              , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION (herein-
after called PEWC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Democratic Republic of the Sudan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty five million dollars ($65,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that PEWC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PEWC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to PEWC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PEWC, in consideration of the Association!s entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PEWC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause


﻿-2-
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PEWC in the carrying out
of engineering design for the Project, the preparation of bidding
documents and evaluation of bids, supervision of construction of
the Project and its coordination, PEWC shall employ engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. PEWC shall, not later than July 1, 1980,
prepare and furnish to the Association for its approval detailed
proposals of the training program referred to under Part H of
the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) PEWC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by PEWC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, PEWC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) PEWC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) PEWC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities


﻿-3-
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between PEWC and the
Association, PEWC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by PEWC and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
(d) PEWC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of PEWC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.07. PEWC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, PEWC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) PEWC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) PEWC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by PEWC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PEWC
Section 3.01. PEWC shall:
(i) operate and maintain its plants, equipment
and property (including procurement of spare
parts and materials), and from time to time
make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering standards;
(ii) except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, take all steps necessary to maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business; and
(iii) at all times carry on its operations, plan its
future development and maintain its financial
position all in accordance with appropriate
business and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. PEWC shall employ at all times appropriately
qualified and experienced staff including management staff to fill
the positions of Director of Electricity, Director of Finance of
PEWC, and Director of Water.
Section 3.03. PEWC shall not employ additional unskilled
staff until it has achieved a ratio of active meters to employees
of at least 40:1.
Section 3.04. PEWC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PEWC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿Section 4.02. PEWC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of PEWC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. PEWC shall cause its regional offices to
provide it quarterly with their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) and shall as of the quarter commencing July 1, 1980
consolidate said accounts with the accounts of its head office.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, PEWC shall take or cause to be taken, from time to time,
all such action within its power (including adjustments of its
tariffs) as shall be necessary to provide revenues sufficient
to produce an annual rate of return of not less than 8% in the
case of its electricity operations and not less than 4% in the
case of its water operations, on the value of the net fixed
assets of PEWC in operations.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated
by relating the net operating income for the
year in question to the average of the values
of the net fixed assets of PEWC in operation
at the beginning and at the end of the year;
(ii) the term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from PEWC's
services; and


﻿-6-
(B) all expenses of operation, administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes or any payment
in lieu of taxes and adequate provision
for depreciation but excluding interest
and other charges on debt; and
(iii) the term "value of the net fixed assets of PEWC
in operation" shall mean the gross book value
of such assets, less the amount of accumulated
depreciation, both as valued from time to time
in accordance with sound and consistently main-
tained methods of valuation acceptable to the
Association.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon PEWC's
obligation under paragraph (a) above, PEWC shall so maintain the
structure or levels of its electricity tariffs that they reflect:
(i) the difference in cost of supplying electricity to different
consumer categories at various times and places; and (ii) any
changes in the price of fuel used by PEWC in its operations.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association and PEWC shall
otherwise agree, PEWC shall not incur any long-term debt unless
PEWC's net revenue for the fiscal year, or a later twelve con-
secutive months' period, immediately preceding the dat2 of
such incurrence shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirements in any succeeding fiscal year, including the
fiscal year in which the debt is to be incurred, on all the PEWC's
long-term debt (including the debt to be incurred) and the
outstanding Borrower's advances to PEWC.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "long-term debt" shall mean any debt
maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred, other than the Bor-
rower's advances to PEWC;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of the contract or
loan agreement providing for such debt;
(iii) the term "net revenue" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources adjusted to take into account
rates in effect at the time of incurrence of such


﻿-7-
debt even though they were not in effect during
the twelve consecutive months to which such revenue
related, less operating and administrative ex-
penses, including provision for taxes, if any, but
excluding provision for depreciation and interest
and other charges on debt;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" shall mean
the aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund contributions, if any), interest and
other charges on debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in currency
of the Borrower debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
rate of exchange at which such other currency is
obtainable by PEWC, at the time such valuation is
made, for the purpose of servicing such debt or, if
such currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of
exchange that will be reasonably determined by the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of PEWC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
PEWC of this event.


﻿-8-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For PEWC:
Public Electricity and Water
Corporation
P.O. Box 1380
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
AMPERE
Khartoum


﻿- 9 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of PEWC, or under the Development Credit
Agreement by PEWC on behalf of the Borrower, may be taken or
executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as
the General Manager shall designate in writing, and PEWC shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /q1  A&L    Wy, K.J\L\s
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B, goods and civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, PEWC shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. PEWC shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; and
(ii) the cost to PEWC of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 each may be awarded on the basis of compe-
titive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 11 -
2.   Contracts for materials and equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $100,000 each may be procured by
negotiated purchase after solicitation of at least three
quotations from suppliers.
3.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the aggre-
gate cost of the contracts to be awarded pursuant to the proce-
dures specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall not exceed the
equivalent of $500,000.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PEWC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PEWC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants refer-
red to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform PEWC and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 12 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, PEWC shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform PEWC and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, PEWC shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform PEWC and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of   -4 A
19SE                              EA
FOR SECRETARY


