F             CREDIT NUMBER 1006 SU
DOCUMENTS    4
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Power Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1006 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          41)1  LA k         , 1980, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by a letter addressed by the Association to the Minister
of National Planning of the Borrower on February 1, 1979, the
Association granted an advance to the Borrower totalling
$1,000,000 for the preparation of the Project;
(C) pursuant to the terms of said advance the aggregate
amount thereof is to be refunded to the Association out of the
proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, acting through its Overseas
Development Administration (hereinafter called ODA), a grant in an
amount equivalent to about one hundred and fourteen million
dollars ($114,000,000) (hereinafter called the ODA Grant) to
assist in financing Parts A and B of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ODA
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
ODA;
(E) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
the Federal Republic of Germany acting through Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called KfW), a grant in an amount
equivalent to about twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000)
(hereinafter called the FRG Grant) to assist in financing Part E
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment between the Borrower and KfW (hereinafter called the KfW
Financing Agreement);
(F) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's Public
Electricity and Water Corporation with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the Public Electricity and Water Corporation the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Public Electricity and Water Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Public Electricity and Water Corporation" or "PEWC"
means the Public Electricity and Water Corporation established by
the Borrower's Public Electricity and Water Corporation Act of
1975 as amended in 1978;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and PEWC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PEWC pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(d) "BNG Development Program" means the.Borrower's Blue Nile
Grid Development Program 1978-1986.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixty five million dollars ($65,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
this Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in paragraph (B) of the Preamble
to this Agreement withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay any unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of such advance shall automatically be cancelled
on the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1990, and ending
Februa*ry 15, 2030, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2000, to be-one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The General Manager of PEWC is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause PEWC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable PEWC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) Without any limitations upon any of its obligations
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall take all
measures necessary on its part to enable PEWC to comply with the
provisions of Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
PEWC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PEWC under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association including: (i) an amortization
period of twenty years including five years' grace period; (ii)
interest at the rate of twelve per cent (12%) per annum on
amounts withdrawn and outstanding; and (iii) assumption by the


﻿-5-
Borrower of the risk of loss due to fluctuations in the values of
currencies.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, substantially amend, abro-
gate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to ensure the timely audit of PEWC's
accounts, the Borrower shall cause the auditors referred to
in Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement to be appointed not
later than six months before the end of each fiscal year.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes to make available
to PEWC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
such amounts as shall be necessary to cover deficits arising
between the net internally generated cash from PEWC's water
supply operations and the cost of its water supply construction
program.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Borrower's Public Electricity and Water Corporation
Act of 1978 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the
ability of PEWC to carry out the covenants, agreements and obliga-
tions set forth in the Project Agreement;
(b) PEWC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PEWC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(d) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the ODA Grant or the FRG Grant made to the Borrower for the


﻿-6-
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the ODA
Grant Agreement or the KfW Financing Agreement, as the case may
be; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such Agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower or PEWC from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement and of PEWC under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and PEWC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PEWC;
(b) all conditions precedent to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals under the ODA Grant Agreement, except the effec-
tiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(c) the KfW Financing Agreement shall have been duly signed
on behalf of the parties thereto.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿- 7 -
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by PEWC, and is legally binding upon PEWC in accor-
dance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PEWC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PEWC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date         f    9I l S c0  is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
. Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.01 (b), 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 and 3.05 of this Agreement and the
provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement the Minister of National Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of National Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Ca-le address:                       Telex:
EIMAR                              324
Khartoum


﻿- 8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /1)           '6155f,-~W
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /5/(LL.~
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds ot the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Extension of               46,000,000         100% of foreign
Roseires hydro-                               expenditures
electric station
(2) Reinforcement               2,500,000         100% of foreign
of 33 Kv trans-                               expenditures
mission circuits
between Burri
and Khartoum
North
(3) Extension of                3,000,000         100% of foreign
Khartoum North                                expenditures
substation
(4) Consultants' ser-           4,000,000         100% of foreign
vices for Burri                               expenditures
Diesel station and
the second 220-Kv
transmission circuit
(5) Management,                  6,000,000        100% of foreign
staff training                               expenditures
and facilities
(6) Refunding of                1,000,000         100% of amount
advance for                                  outstanding on
Project                                       Effective Date
Preparation
(7) Unallocated                  2,500,000
TOTAL       65,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country ocher
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to


﻿- 11 -
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expen-
ditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the BNG Development Program and
consists of the following components:
Part A:
Supply, erection and commissioning of diesel engine-driven
generating sets with a total capacity of about 40-MW and asso-
ciated equipment at the Burri Thermal Power Plant in Khartoum.
Part B:
Supply, erection, commissioning of about 60-MW oil-fired
steam turbine plant, at the new Khartoum North thermal station,
and design of a future 60-MW extension at the Khartoum North.
Part C:
Extension of the existing Khartoum North substation facil-
ities.
Part D:
Reinforcement of the existing Burri-Khartoum north 33-KV
transmission circuits.
Part E:
Stringing of a second 220-KV transmission circuit between
Sennar junction and Kilo X substations.
Part F:
Consultant services for engineering and site supervision.
Part G:
Supply, erection and commissioning of two additional hydro
units of about 40-MW capacity each at the Roseires hydroelectric
station, with associated equipment, gates and penstocks, switch-
gears, protection and cabling; and supply and erection of embedded
parts for a third hydro unit including the spiral casing.


﻿- 13 -
Part H:
(1) Carrying out of a training program of PEWC's management
and technical staff and expansion of existing training facilities
including addition of workshops, a laboratory, lecture rooms and
provision of electrical and mechanical training equipment.
(2) Stengthening of PEWC's development planning activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1984.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
FOR SECRETARY


