Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6208
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 867-PAK)
May 21, 1986
Energy Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



THE WORLD BANK                    I o m   UE ONY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OKe of Dkwcftaresqai
Opwatm hvaltian
May 20, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AID THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Toot Oil
and Gas Development Project (Credit 867-PAK)
Att.chea, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Pakistan - Toot Oil and Gas Development Project (Credit
867-PAK)" prepared by the Energy and Industry Staff.  Under the modified
system for project performance auditing, further evaluation of this project
by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
,of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 867 PAX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   ................................ 
Basic Data Sheet   ............. ...           .......................... ...              ii
Highlights   ....... ....................                                                  iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.    INTRODUCTION   ....I.**.........***....                                          1
1.    PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL   ...... o.............                        2
III.    IMPLEMENTATION   ...*             ...... .......***..**......                     5
a.    Project Management   ......................                                5
b.    Drilling   ......6...............................**                        6
Co   Dhodak   ..............................                                     8
do   Training   a.............................. 
e.   Project Costs   .......  *9...@...............  ........                    9
f.    Disbursements   ***********************************                       10
g.    Performance of Consultants                 ......................         10
h.   Performance of Contractors                  ......................         10
IV.    OPERATING PERFORMANCE   .................... ..  *......*                       11
V.   ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE   ....... o........................                         13
VI.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE   ..................                                  14
a.    Background              ......................... .........               14
b.    Organization and Management                 .....................         15
c.    Staffing   ........... ..... .          ...........*   ......             15
d.    Management Systems                      .........                         16
es   Conclusion   ...                ..........                                 16
This document has a estricted distribution and may bo used by recipients only in the performance
of their officW duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Dank authoriation.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Pase No.
VII.   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE  .........*...................                       16
a    Operating Results  ...... ....  ........      .............          16
b.   Balance Sheet          ........................ ............         17
c.   Financial Covenant  i.s............**............                    18
VIII.   PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK  ............................o.oo..                18
IXo   CONCLUSIONS  ...........  ............    ...................             20
Annexes
1.   Project Costs  ...............................22
la.   Comparison of Estimated and Actual Project Costs  .....                   23
2.   Economic Rate of Return   * .............**...........                    24
3*   Income Statements             ....................................        25
ATTACHMENT A
Comments from the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural
Resources                                                                29.........................e......eeo  29



PROJECT CO"-LETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CRDIT 867 PAK)
PREFACE
This report presents the results of a performance audit of an
Association credit to finance part of the cost of the development of the Toot
onshore oilfield. The credit was made to the Government and onlent to the Oil
& Gas Development Corporation (OGDC), a Government owned entity. The credit,
in the amount of US$ 30 million, was approved in December 1978 and fully dis-
bursed in July 1983, a year behind schedule. The proceeds financed the
drilling of eight wells, surface facilities, and assistance to the Oil & Gas
Training Institute. The project, with some modifications in scope, was
completed with a two year delay (mainly due to the extremely difficult
drilling conditions of the Toot field).
This Project Completion Report was prepared by the Energy Department
and was based on information obtained during project supervision and from the
Appraisal, President, and Supervision reports as well as other documents from
the project files. The Borrower submitted a final completion report
containing its views on the project implementation and supplied additional
data for the PCR.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following standard procedures, ORD sent copies of the draft report
to the Government and the Executing Agency. Comments received from the
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources have been reproduced as
Attachment A to the report.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN -TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 867 PAK
KEY PROJECT DATA
(USe million)
As of 06/30/84
Original   Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid  Outstandiia
Credit Amount           30.0        30.0          -          -      -30.0
Cumulative Loan Disbursement
EY1979       FY1980    FY1981    FY1982    m1 983/4
(i)  Planned           4.0        19.0       27.0      30.0          -
(ii)  Actual            1.5         4.3       18.3       28.0       30.0
(iii)  (ii) as 2 of (i)   38          23         68       93.0      100.0
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original          Actual or
Loan Date       Re-estimated
Board Approval                              12/21/78         12/21/78
Loan Agreement                               1/17/79          1/17/79
Effectiveness                                4/25/79          4/25/79
Loan Closing                                12/31/81         12/31/82
Date All Physical Components completed          6/80         12/31/82
Total Project Cost (US$ million)              73.0              90IX
overrun (I)                                   -               24-
Economic Rate of Return (S)                    53               22
Borrower                                    Government of Pakistan
Executing Agency                            Oil & Gas Development Corporation
(OGDC)
Fiscal Year of Borrower                     July 1 - June 30
I, When expressed in Rs, the cost overrun is equivalent to 311



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Month/    No. of    No. of       Man-      Date of
Year      Das-      Persons      weeks    Report
Appraisal                 07/77       28          4          16      08/02/77
Post Appraisal            10/77        7          3           3      11/10/77
Post Appraisal            02/78        7          2           2      03/11/78
21
Supervision I             04/79       12          3         5.1      05/24/79
Supervision II            07/79        8          1         1.1      07/24/79
Supervisioi. III          11/79       13          1         1.9      11/30/79
Supervision IV            01/80       17          4         9.7      03/17/80
Supervision V             05/80       17          5        12.1      06/05/80
Supervision VI            07/80        9          4         5.1      08/11/80
Supervision VII           09/80        5          1         0.7      09/12/80
Supervision VIII          12/80       19          3         8.1      01/16/81
Supervision IX            05/81        7          3         3.0      06/04/81
Supervision X             07/81       10          3         4.3      07/22/81
Supervision XI            08/81       10          1         1.4      08/20/81
Supervision XII           11/81       12          4         6.9      12/03/81
Supervision XIII          01/82       14          3         6.0      02/25/82
Supervision XIV           06/82       11          2         3.1      06/30/82
Supervision XV            11/82        7          1         1.0      12/03/82
Supervision XVT           12/82        8          2         2.3      01/19/83
In Pakistan                                               71.8
FOLLOW-ON PROJECT(S)
Second Toot Oil & Gas Development Project, Loan 2374-PAX approved on
December 19, 1983 in the amount of US $30.0 million and Petroleum
Exploration Project, Loan 2351-PAR approved on October 18, 1983 in
the amount of US $51.5 million.
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency                             Rupees (Rs)
Appraisal Year Average                       US$1     R Rs 9.9
Intervening Year's Average                  US$1      Rs 10.06
Completion Year's Average                   USU1      R Rs 12.75



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 867-PAR)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The First Toot Oil & Gas Development Project was approved by the
Executive Directors on December 21, 1978 for an asount of US$ 30.0 Million.
The Oil & Gas Development Corporation (OGDC), a Government entity, was the
beneficiary and implementing agency.
2.       The project had three main objectives:  (i) to boost domestic oil
supplies by developing increased production from the Toot field; (ii) to
assist OGDC in acquiring the necessary skills to carry on successful oil
operations; and (iii) to evaluate the potential of the Dhodak discovery and
prepare for its rapid exploitation.
3.       The project was only partially successful.  Crude oil production from
Toot field fell considerably short of that forecast at the time of appraisal;
incremental production from the wells drilled under the project also fell
short of that forecasted. The operating and project implementation skills of
the OGDC staff have been substantially improved through the input of con-
sultants and through training. The potential of the Dhodak discovery has been
evaluated and a preliminary development plan has been formulated. However,
there is still no hydrocarbon production from the field as had been originally
anticipated. (PCR, paras. 4.01 and 4.02).
4.       The final project cost was US$ 90.6 million of which US$ 64.4 million
was foreign exchange cost and an equivalent of US$ 26.2 million were local
costs. Compared with the total project cost at appraisal of US$ 73 million
the cost overrun was 24%. The overrun was entirely due to the excessive
amounts spent on the drilling program. The drilling time per well, including
the time lost in fishing, side tracking and completion averaged 460 days
compared to 180 days estimated at appraisal. (PCR paras 3.09, and 3.10 and
Annex 1).
5.       Although the project was completed two and a half years behind
schedule and the oil production through 1992 is estimated at only 42% of the
figure forecast at the time of appraisal, the price of crude oil has increased
substantially since 1977 and the Toot wells are delivering much more gas than
was anticipated. This gas is being fed into the gas distribution system
already in place and substitutes for imported fuel oil. The expected economic
rate of return on the project, although less than the 53% estimated at time of
appraisal, is still a respectable 22%. (PCR, paras 5.01 and 5.02).
6.       In analyzing the project experience, the PCR (paras. 9.01 and 9.05)
stresses that, although failing to achieve the forecast production target, it
enabled OGDC to maintain oil and gas production from Toot at commercial
levels. It resulted in the resolution of major drilling and completion
difficulties encountered in the Potwar basin, initiated OGDC in the modern
petroleum industry operat-ng practices, and enhanced their operating and
project implementation capabilities. It was instrumental in furthering the



a                                       - v -
Bank's dialogue with the Government on energy policy, which resulted in the
Government's initiating long overdue reforms in the petroleum (especially
natural gas) subsector.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 867-PAK)
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01     Pakistan is a major gas producer, an energy resource which provides
approximately 40% of the country's commercial energy needs. Oil production on
the other hand is relatively small, averaging some 40,000 barrels per day
representing approximately 25% of domestic oil requirements.  Individual oil
fields are small, the majority located in the Potwar basin where the
reservoirs are deep and of poor quality with extremely difficult drilling
conditions.
1.02     Before the OPEC oil price increases, the international oil companies
had little interest in Pakistan considering the Potwar fields too small and
costly and the rest of the country more likely to produce gas than oil. OGDC,
with Soviet assistance, took up exploration after its founding in 1961.
Drilling initially focussed on the oil bearing Potwar basin where the Toot
field was discovered in 1968. Although OGDC's drilling program progressed
slowly, it did manage two additional significant discoveries, the Dhodak
condensate field in 1976 and the Pirkoh gas field in 1977. The Dhodak dis-
covery was considered to be of some significance because it was the first
discovery of liquid hydrocarbons outside the Potwar basin in what appeared to
be sizeable quantities.
1.03     The increase in crude oil prices in 1973 had a major impact on
Pakistan's balance of payments and growth prospects and heightened the urgency
for a set of policies which would provide the incentives to step up ex-
ploration drilling activities in the search for indigenous oil and gas re-
sources. To meet this challenge, the Government formulated a strategy based
on a two pronged approach: first, it prepared a package of incentives in 1975
to stimulate greater private oil industry participation, and second, it in-
creased its financial commitments to OGDC. At the same time the Government
sought financing for OGDC's investment requirements from external sources
including the Bank Group, an initiative which in 1977 gave rise to the project
under review. In parallel, the Bank also helped encourage foreign investments
in 1978 by issuing to three foreign oil companies "letters of cooperation"
designed to ensure the Bank's presence to finance the government's share of
any commercial discovery and thereby minimize the political risk.  Exploration
activities did increase substantially even though only one successful
commercial discovery resulted.
1.04     The Bank's involvement in Pakistan's gas subsector goes back to 1954
when Sui Gas Transmission Company (SGTC) received a loan (99-PAK) for the
extension of its natural gas transmission system. Subsequently four more
loans (377 PAK, 597 PAK, 696 PAK & 1107 PAK) were made to Sui Northern Gas
Pipeline Limited (SNGPL) totalling US$ 108 million equivalent for the con-
struction of gas pipelines. The Toot OiL and Gas Development Credit
(Cr. 867-PAK) approved in December 1978 was the first lending operation to
OGDC.



-2-
1.05     Recently the bank has approved two more loans involving OGDC: one for
petroleum exploration (Loan 2351 PAK) and one for the second stage development
of the Toot oil field (Loan 2374 PAK) approved on October 18, 1983, and
December 19, 1983, respectively. IFC has made three loans in the oil and gas
subsector, one to Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) for the installation of gas
compression facilities in the Sui field, one to Pakistan Oilfields Limited
(POL) for additional developmAnt drilling in the Meyal field and one to Mari
Gas Company Limited for further development of the Mari Gas Field.
1.06     The project under review had three main objectives:  (i) to increase
domestic oil supplies by developing increased production from the Toot field;
(ii) to assist OGDC in acquiring the necessary skills to carry out surcessful
oil operations; and (iii) to evaluate the Dhodak discovery and prepare for its
exploitation. The major components were:
(a)  Toot drilling program comprising one delineation well and seven
production wells;
(b)  surface facilities for producing and marketing the oil produced;
(c)  logistic support;
(d)  Dhodak study and project preparation; and
(e)  Technical assistance.
Financing of the .:oject was provided by an IDA Credly; an EEC Special Action
Credit and CIDA loan/grants; a small grant from ODA - , reduced from the
initial commitment of US$ 12 million (which was substituted in part by the
aforementioned EEC Credit), was used to finance the services of an expatriate
financial controller for OGDC. The Credit represented the Bank Group's first
operation in Pakistan's oil subsector.
1.07     This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission that visited
Pakistan in May, 1)84, on information supplied by the Borrower/Beneficiary, as
well as on documents and reports, available in the project file. It covers
the Toot Oil and Gas Development Project, including those parts financed under
the EEC Special Action Credit 41 and the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) loans. The beneficiary (OGDC) prepared a project completion
report and cooperated fully with the mission by helping it acquire the
necessary data for this report.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Project Origin
2.01     Following the Toot discovery in 1968, OGDC proceeded to develop the
field with Russian equipment. Through 1977 six wells were drilled, but only
two were successfully completed as producers because of a dry hole and a
variety of mechanical difficulties. After the sharp oil price ircrease in
1/ Overseas Development Agency (U.K.), previously named Overseas Development
Ministry



-3-
1973/14 and the Government's increased financial commitment, OGDC started to
introduce modern management and exploration techniques and to modernize its
drilling equipment including the purchase of four modern deep drilling rigs
from the USA in 1977.
2.02     Along with encouraging foreign oil company participation, the Govern-
ment viewed Toot and Dhodak as the quickest means of developing increased
domestic oil supplies.  The initial well in Dhodak showed promise of a pro-
ductive condensate field and drilling in Toot had established the presence of
commercial quantities of crude oil. A geological and reservoir engineering
study by foreign consultants during early 1977 had estimated that tht; Toot
field contained 13.3 million barrels of proven and 30.9 million barrels of
probable recoverable reserves. The consultant recommended that a minimum of
six additional production wells be drilled to reach a production level of
5,100 BOPD on the basis of approximately 950 BOPD per well and 60% success
ratio. It also recommended the drilling of additional wells of an exploratory
nature to confirm the limits of the field.  After an additional well was
drilled another consultant revised upwards the proved recoverable reserves to
16.5 million barrels. It was felt that with the use of modern equipment and
techniques, instead of the older Soviet equipment, the drilling problems in
this field would be overcome.
2.03     The Chairman of OGDC visited the Bank during April 1977 to discuss
Pakistan's pe.trGleum exploration and uevelopment program and the possibility
of Bank involvement and assistance. In early June a delegation representing
the Government and OGDC visited Washington and presented a proposal for
development of Toot and Dhodak with Bank assistance. After reviewing the
proposals, the Bank agreed to appraise the development of Toot but decided
that further preparation and appraisal work was necessary before the develop-
ment of Dhodak could be undertaken.
Project Appraisal
2.04     The project was defined by IDA appraisal missions which visited
Pakistan during July and August 19?.t October 1977 and February 1978 to in-
clude the following individual components:
(a) The Toot Oil Drilling Program
On the basis of the recommendationa made by the foreign
reservoir engineering consultants, eight wells were proposed:
seven production wells and one delineation well to provide
additional data on the extent of the Toot field. A drilling
consultant, expert in deep drilling techniques, would be
assigned to the project for the duration of the drilling
program. After completion of the delineation well a reservoir
study would be undertaken to assess Toot's ultimate potential
and to determine what further action would be required to
exploit the field.



-4-
(b) Toot Surface Facilities
The project would include all facilities required to produce and
dispose of the crude oil and associated gas, including gas-oil
separators, oil and gas gathering systems, gas dehydration unit,
storage tanks and tie-ins to existing gas and oil pipelines.
(c) Logistic Support
OGOC's past drilling programs were hampered by extensive delays
and disruptions becai:se of inadequate logistic support. The
project would include heavy road transport equipment for
supplying and moving drilling rigs and a cargo aircraft for use
in emergencies and for transport of critical personnel,
materials and equipment.
(d) Dhodak Studies and Project Preparation
The project would include a seismic survey of the Dhodak field
and a reservoir evaluation after OGDC has drilled the required
delineation wells. If the field were found to have sufficient
recoverable oil reserves, a feasibility study would be under-
taken to define the devel4pment program and the required down-
stream facilities.
(e) Training and Technical Assistance
The project would assist the Oil and Gas Training Institute
(OCTI) in establishing an effective program to train OGDC's
operating and technical staff. Funds would be available for
expatriate instructors and for the procurement for consultancy
services to OGDC in management and accounting.
2.05     IDA's involvement in the project helped attract other external
assistance from Canada and the UK. The Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA), in addition to offering a loan for equipment and materials,
undertook to provide OGDC with techni cal assistance for the various phases of
its operations, including drilling and production experts and assistance in
setting up a project management team along with the foreign experts needed to
make the unit function effectively. CIDA also undertook to provide technical
assistance in design and engineering of the Toot surface facilities and con-
sultants to carry out the Toot and Dhodak reservoir studies and further Dhodak
development studies if warranted by results. The Overseas Development
Ministry (ODM) Al offered a grant to supply equipment and materials for the
project. This g5jnt in the amount of US$ 12 million equivalent, however, was
almost entirely - withdrawn in August 1979 after a change of government in
the UK. Arrangements were subsequently made for an EEC Special Action Credit
to fill this financing gap.
l/ Subsequently named Overseas Development Agency
2/ With the exception of financing a management study and the services of
a financial controller.



-5-
2.06     Outside the physical components of the project, the Association
focussed on training and improvement of OGDC's management, financial and
accounting practices. At the same time, the project provided the opportunity
of assisting the Government and OGDC in identifying and resolving a number of
sector and project issues. In this context, the following special conditions
were included in the Credit Agreement:
(a)  OGDC would appoint a fulltime training director and employ con-
sultants to carry out various reservoir, seismic, geophysical
and feasibility studies;
(b)  OGDC would revise its accounting practices and maintain separate
accounts for each field;
(c)  OGDC would furnish to the Association an economic and financial
analysis of any major oil and gas projects it proposes to under-
take during the implementation of the project;
(d)  The Government would undertake a study of petroleum pricing and
policy issues in accordance with terms of reference agreed with
the Association;
(e)  The Government would supplement OGDC's revenues from the sale of
crude oil and gas by making such payments to OGDC as may be
necessary to ensure that OGDC, under conditions of efficient
operation, would earn a real DCF rate of return of not less than
10%;
(f)  The Government would consult with the Association regarding its
investment programs and major projects in the oil and gas
sectors and make available the resources required for carrying
out such program; and
(g)  The Government would endeavor to adjust petroleum product prices
so that over any period of three consecutive years net receipts
from the development surcharge would be positive.
2.07     Credit negotiations were held in Washington and completed on
September 13, 1978. The Board of Directors approved the Credit on
December 21, 1978. Special conditions of effectiveness were: (i) CIDA had
arranged to provide consultants to OGDC and (ii) arrangements had been made to
refine OGDC's crude oil production from Toot. The Credit became effective on
April 25, 1979, all conditions of effectiveness having been met beforehand.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
a. Project Management
3.'01    OGDC was responsible for implementing the project through the Toot
Project Directorate (TDP), a unit established for this purpose with the
assistance of CIDA-financed consultants (para. 2.05). However, TDP did not
develop into the effective independent project management team originally
envisaged. One factor was the problem CIDA experienced in assigning con-
sultants to the unit. There were extensive delays at the outset in fielding



consultants (of up to two years) because of administrative constraints, and in
general, because of the high level of activity in the Canadian petroleum
industry at the time, it was difficult to find people of the required caliber
willing to work in Pakistan for an extended period. However, the principal
project management problem existed within OCDC itself. For one, OGDC's
organizational structure, management style, lack of previous experience in
implementing projects under the auspices of an international organization and
shortage of experienced staff led to an over cautious attitude in decision
making and initiatives at all levels of the organization were inhibited. This
was particularly true of the period under review when the then Chairman
insisted on making all final decisions regardless of the importance of the
matter in question. In addition, OGDC's low pay scales offered little in-
centive for retaining its competent staff or for recruiting new talent. In
fact, throughout the project period there was a continuous exodus of OGDC
staff, including some of its best, to the private sector and to the lucrative
opportunities in the Middle East. Under these circumstances, it was neither
desirable nor practicable to set up parallel operating departments for one
project, and the responsibility for implementing the various project
components fell on OGDC's operating departments, that is exploration, drilling
and production. In effect TPD's role was reduced mostly to acting as an
administrative unit with little direct involvement in day to day operating
decisions.
b. Drilling
3.02     The project drilling operations started with the spudding of Well No.
9 on January 27, 1978. The eight project wells were designated to be Well
Nos. 9 to 16, but because of the necessity for drilling a second well at the
No. 10 location (resulting in a No. 10 and 10A) Well No. 15 ended up being the
last project well. Drilling was initially carried out by a U.S. contractor
who supplied an expatriate crew for the four U.S. manufactured rigs under what
was essentially a labor contract. This contract was to expire in
December 1979, but the contractor withdrew his crew after the attack on the
U.S. Embassy on November 21, 1979. A one rig crew was then provided by a
British contractor on an interim basis. In the meantime, OCDC issued bid
requests to some 20 international drilling contractors for operating the U.S.
rigs. A British drilling firm was awarded the contract on April 10, 1980 and
completed the remaining wells.
3.03     At the start of the project, the drilling of the developed wells in
the Toot field was continuously afflicted by such problems as stuck drilling
bits, collapsed casings and completion failures. These situations result in
obstruction in the wells which have to be removed (by "fishing"), or if not
successfully removed, sidetracking and bypassing the obstruction. The result
was exorbitantly long drilling time, wells haviyf to be abandoned and poor
production from those which could be completed.-
1/ One of the great dangers in drilling in difficult formations, such as
present in Toot, is a blow out. A blow out in fact occurred while
drilling Well No. 8, the last well drilled with Russian equipa!nt. The
well caught fire, causing the death of the OGDC field manager and
extensive damage to the drilling rig.



-7-
3.04     At appraisal, these difficulties were mainly attributed to the poor
quality materials and equipment (left over fi.om the RusRian assistance) in
use, inadequate technical assistance, and OGDC's managerial shortcomings.
However, despite the use of modern U.S. drilling equipment and experienced
expatriate crews, the drilling problems persisted, particularly throughout the
first half of the project program. Out of the first four wells drilled only
two could be successfully completed. It was only toward the latter part of
the project that visible progress could be discerned. In addition to the
fundamental need for modern equipment and materials, there was equally a need
for adequate technical assistance and supervision at well site, better
planning of well drilling operations and strengthening OGDC's technical and
managerial staff in order to drill and complete successfully wells in the
Potwar. Technical experts supplied by CIDA had been depended on to improve
performance in all these areas. However, they only became available in
sufficient numbers after a lengthy two year delay because of constraints
within CIDA (para.3.01) in identifying these experts and securing their
services.
3.05     Aside from improving its management and technical capabilities, one
of the solutions which successive IDA supervision missions urged on OGDC was
to enter into a drilling management contract whereby the contractor would be
given sole responsibility for drilling and completing an assigned number of
wells. As mentioned, such a contract was awarded, but in practice it ended up
being an ordinary labor contract with the same defects as the earlier one.
Various formalities imposed by OCDC which had little experience in
administering such arrangements complicated the contractor's operations and
detracted from his effectiveness. All decisions, even concerning routine
drilling operations had to be made by consensus of the OGDC operating staff.
Though each of these factors aggravated further the drilling difficulties in
this area of Pakistan, it became apparent that modern equipment, good manage-
ment expertise, and local knowledge of the drilling conditions were all
essential in achieving a successful well; in fact, the drilling difficulties
in the Potwar area were not confined to OGDC, weak as its management may have
been, but were experienced by all companies drilling in this region, foreign
and Pakistani alike. A learning period of some 12-24 months appeared
necessary to overcome the operational difficulties. With time, gradual im-
provements were brought about; CIDA belatedly provided the required con-
sultants; OGDC and the contractor learned to work together better; and under
constant monitoring from IDA staff, OGDC management and technical performance
improved. These improvements were markedly apparent in the drilling of the
last two project wells (Nos. 14 and 15). Drilling was relatively trouble free
except for an unavoidable delay of 11 weeks in drilling No. 14 and several
weeks in the case of No. 15. These wells were drilled in record time: Well
No. 14 in 290 days and Well No. 15 in 227 days. This compares with an overall
average of 460 days per well.
3.06     The last project well (# 15) was completed on November 17, 1982 about
30 months later than the appraisal estimate. Some of this slippage is
attributable to delayed procurement of essential materials resulting from
ODM's withdrawal from the project, late technical assistance from CIDA, and
the disruption following the premature departure of the first drilling
contractor plus the time taken to award a new contract. However, the major
cause was underestimating the extremely difficult drilling environment of the
Toot field and assuming that the use of modern drilling equipment would be the



-8-
key factor in overcoming the drilling problems previously experienced.
Whereas it was estimated that a well could be drilled in 180 days, in
actuality it took more than twice as long. Of the eight wells drilled six
(Nos. 9, 10A, 11, 12, 14 and 15) were completed as producers, but Well No. 9
subsequently had to be abandoned because of an unsuccessful fishing and side-
tracking operation during workover of the well. The other two wells (Nos. 10
and 13) also had to be abandoned as a result of unsuccessful fishing
operations while drilling and the inability to sidetrack the hole.
c. Dhodak
3.07     A seismic survey, reservoir evaluation, feasibility study and project
preparation were originally included in the project scope and intended to be
financed by CIDA. However, after lending operations were indefinitely shelved
in 1979 as a result of a change in government, CIDA concluded that its limited
funds could more effectively be spent on goods and services for the project
than on the Dhodak studies. As a result, OGDC completed the Dhodak seismic
survey with its own crew and with helicopter support from the Pakistan Air
Force. Subsequently, a reservoir evaluation and preliminary development study
were carried out by consultants financed under the Bank's Project Preparation
Facility (P-160). The feasibility study for developing the field was not
undertaken, primarily because OGDC was encouraged first to seek the partici-
pation of a foreign partner with requisite experience and expertise (either on
a service contract or joint venture basis) in view of the difficult logistics
involved in developing Dhodak, and OGDC's own lack of experience in developing
and producing a condensate field, especially of the type (retrograde) Dhodak
is believed to be.
d. Training
3.08     The Oil and Gas Training Institute (OGTI) was established in 1977 in
Karachi where OGDC specialists and consultants, provided by well service
companies working in Pakistan, gave courses in various petroleum related
sitbjects, mostly related to drilling operations. In 1979, OCTI was moved to
Islamabad. After a period of relative inactivity, a fulltime Pakistani
director was appointed in December 1980 and an expatriate counterpart in
January 1981. During the first year of operation the institute gave a total
of 23 courses mostly dealing with drilling and stores management to about 210
OGDC staff. In addition, a complementary on-the-job training program has been
carried out. Additionally, OGDC technical staff were trained in well workover
and cementing operations in Canada in connection with the supply of one
workover unit and welt cementing equipment supplied by CIDA. While the
training program has been successful insofar as it has focussed on the skills
of most immediate need within OGDC, the overall training objectives have not
been met. To do so, the training program must be expanded to include the
whole range of skills needed in the oil and gas industry. Recently, however,
CIDA and OGDC have agreed on a technical assistance program to be financed
mainly through a US$ 15.0 million CIDA grant, including the supply of training
aids, services of Canadian training and technical advisers and training crews
and on-the-job training of OGDC personnel in Canada. If successful, this
program should result in OGDC having a sufficient number of trained staff in
major petroleum industry disciplines to enable it to undertake complex
projects.



-9-
e. Project. Cost
3.09     The following table compares the project costs by major components as
estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the actual costs incurred.
A detailed cost comparison is included in Annexes 1 and IA.
Comparison of SAR and Actual Costs V
(PR's MiLlion)
SAR 2/                   ACTUAL
F.E.   L4C.   TOTAL        F.E.   LOC.   TOTAL
Drilling Program              397      93    490         597    249    846
Surface Facilities             84      51    135          32      13     45
Logistic Support               33       3     36          22       3     25
Dhodak Study                   20       5     25           13      5     18
Assistance to OCTI              9       3     12            -      1      1
Management Consultant            1      -      1            8      1      9
Customs Duties                  -      20     20                   -      -
Total                         544    175    719          672    272    944
The final project cost exceeds the original estimate pv Rs. 225 million
(US$ 18 million) equivalent to a cost overrun of 31Z1'
The foreign exchange portion of this overrun amounting to about US$ 10 million
was financed from the Government's own budgetary allocations to OGDC,
excluding the relatively minor amount provided by ODA for management and
accounting consultants.
3.10     It can be seen from the cost comparison table that the overrun was
entirely due to the excessive amounts spent on the drilling program which
exceeded the SAR estimate by Rs 356 million. As illustrated in the detailed
comparison in Annex IA this extra cost is almost entirely attributable te
those items affected by drilling time. The drilling time per well, including
the cime lost in fishing, side tracking and completion averaged 460 days
compared to 180 days estimated at appraisal. This extra time devoted to each
well was reflected proportionally in rig, labor, well service and overhead
costs along with the additional materials consumed, such as drilling bits and
mud chemicals. Surface facilities were less than estimated because the
reduced oil production obviated the need for a trunk line and much of the
storage facilities. Similarly, less was spent on logistic support because the
cargo aircraft was originally deferred, although it has been delivered to
Pakistan since completion of the project. The cost of assistance to the
training institute (OGTI) is much less than estimated mostly because the bulk
of the training has been devoted to drilling operations and these costs are
included in the drilling contract.
1/ Costs are given in Rupees since OGDC records foreign expenditures in
2   Rupees in its cost accounts.
-/ Physical and price contingencies have been proratee to each item.
3 When expressed in US $, the cost overrun is equivalent to 24%



- 10 -
f. Disbursements
3.11     The table below compares the actual Bank disbursements with the
appraisal forecast and reflect the impact of the actual implementation
schedule.
Loan Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Appraisal
IBRD Fiscal Year              Actual              Forecast
1979                      1.5                   4.0
1980                      2.8                  15.0
1981                     14.0                   8.0
1982                      9 7                   3.0
1983                      1.6
1984                      0.4
30.0                  30.0
As the above table indicates, the disbursements in FY 1979 and 1980 were
particularly low due to difficulties experienced in procurement initially and
late mobilization of the oilfield contractors. The extension of the original
closing date by one year beyond FY 1982 to allow full disbursement corresponds
to the delay in project implementation.
g. Performance of Consultants
3.12     According to OGDC and IDA staff observations, the performance of con-
sultants engaged in carrying out various aspects of the project was generally
satisfactory. As previously noted, the delays by CIDA in supplying the con-
sultants to assist OGDC in implementing the project seriously detracted from
the effectiveness of this assistance during the early stages of the project.
However, when the full team was eventually mobilized, it was of a high pro-
fessional calibre, and its contribution was an important element in completing
the project. A management study financed by CIDA was found to be in-
sufficiently comprehensive by IDA staff. Consultants provided by ODA subse-
quently undertook a more indepth study which satisfied the objectives
originally envisaged. (cf paragraph 6.03)
h. Performance of Contractors
3.13     Relations between OGDC and the two drilling contractors were of an
adversarial nature, at least during the initial stages of operations. One
underlying problem apparently was the huge salary difference between the OGDC
staff and the expatriate crews. It is only natural that such a disparity
could create resentment and affect the support and cooperation given by
OGDC. The contractors' chief complaints concerned lack of adequate field
support, cooperation by OGDC staff and slow decision making and procurement
procedures. OGDC on the other hand, complained of such contractor short-
comings as unqualified personnel assigned to the rigs, poor oilfield pro-
cedures, abuse of vehicles and equipment and tendency to take advantage of
OGDC's lack of experience in contract management. These problems were never



- 11 -
resolved with the first contractor who left Pakistan prematurely (para. 3.02),
and undoubtedly neither side would have been interested in renewing the
contract. The relationship between OGDC and the second contractor eventually
reached a more harmonious stage, OGDC coming to realize that the contractor's
services and cooperation were essential to its operations and the contractor
becoming more tolerant of the working environment and conditions. IDA staff
who have supervised the project are of the view that under the circumstances
the performance of these contractors was generally satisfactory. The various
well service contractors who pa-ticipated in the project performed their ser-
vices in a professional and satisfactory manner in the view of both OGDC and
IDA staff.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Overall Assessment
4.01     The main objectives of the project (para. 1.07) were partially
achieved. Crude oil production from the Toot field fell considerably short of
that forecast at the time of appraisal; incremental production from the wells
drilled under the project also fell short of that forecasted for the reasons
outlined in paragraph 5.01. Nevertheless, with production declining from the
$old" wells (i.e. before the Project) the production from wells drilled under
the project currently constitutes approximately 91% of total Toot oil pro-
duction; in addition, about 9.8 MMCFD of associated gas are being supplied to
the SNGPL grid. The operating and project implementation skills of the OGDC
staff have been substantially improved through the input of consultants and
through training. The potential of the Dhodak discovery has been evaluated
and a preliminary development plan has been formulated. However, there is
still no hydrocarbon production from the field as had been originally anti-
cipated, mainly because of two factors: the long time taken by OGDC in
drilling appraisal wells to help evaluate the reserves of the field, and the
subsequent delay in arranging for a foreign partner to participate in the
venture. The latter is considered essential considering OGDC's lack of
experience with retrograde condensate fields requiring re-cycling of gas; and
foreign partners are still being actively sought. (cf paragraph 3.07).
4.02     The following table compares the SAR oil production forecast with the
actual production achieved at project completion.
Comparison of SAR and Actual,Oil Production Rates
(In BPD - )
SAR FORECAST         ACTUAL
From old wells                1,644              200
From Project wells            4,292            2,094
Total                    5,936            2,294
a/  Barrels per day; 6.3 barrels equal 1.0 cu. meter.
The table shows that production from the old wells was drastically less than
the forecast. This shortfall is principally due to the fact that the original
two best producers (Wells No. 1 and 6) have unexpectedly stopped producing
because of mechanical difficulties which cannot be rectified. The project



- 12 -
wells are not producing at the forecast rate because only five of the eight
wells drilled were successfully completed and the average flow rate per
successful well is 420 BPD instead of the 537 BPD average flow rate per well
drilled estimated at appraisal on the bDaai of the production rates of then
existing wells and the consultant's estimates based on limited reservoir data
(para. 2.02).
Operational Aspects
4.03     Since well head pressures vary widely throughout the field, the pro-
duction scheme at Toot comprised high pressure (HP) and/or low pressure (LP)
gas-oil separators for each well as needed depending on the well head
pressure. The HP separators operate at a pressure of 750 psig which is
sufficiently high for the separated gas to enter the nearby SNCPL gas grid.
The LP separators operate at pressures ranging from 200 to 20 psig with the
produced gas being flared. Crude oil from the LP separators is flashed to the
stock tanks where thae disolved gases are vented to atmosphere. An engineering
study in early 1984 by Pakistani and expatriate consultants found that the gas
flared and vented at the stock tank and to a lesser extent the gas sold to
SNGPL contained about 45 barrels of natural gas liquids (NCL) and 34 barrels
LPG for every million cu. ft. (MMCF) of gas produced. Based on the reported
gas production at project completion (9.8 MMCFD) this is equivalent to a daily
loss of about 440 barrels of NGL and 330 barrels of LPG. At current prices
(US$ 30 at a minimum) and since a ready market exists within Pakistan, it is
financially and economically attractive to recover these products. However,
NGL facilities were not included in the project at appraisal because of the
expected rapid decline in the gas production rate from the field. Neverthe-
less, the latest reservoir studies indicate that associated gas production
will continue increasing, and processing and compression facilities have been
provided in the second Toot projeiy for extracting NGL and LPG and recovering
and selling all the gas to SNGPL - .
4.04     In monitoring the performance of the Toot field, OGDC is now
following the established procedures of the petroleum industry. The pro-
duction rates, water cuts, gas/oil ratios and flowing wellhead pressures of
the individual wells are periodically measured. Periodic bottom-hole pressure
measurements in strategically located wells have also begun. These measures
which constitute a marked improvement in OGDC's reservoir management
practices, will provide critically important reservoir data which will lead to
a better understanding of reservoir behavior and to the future steps necessary
for optimizing recovery of the field's oil reserves.
4.05     Field support services such as communications, transport and work-
shops have substantially improved and will be further upgraded under the
Second Toot project. Warehouses are satisfactory and normal industry
practices are being employed in the storage of cement, mud additives,
chemicals and tubular materials.
1/ The project originally provided for all the Toot gas to be piped to
existing processing facilities at the Meyal field some 20 miles
distance from Toot, but at the request of the Covernment, the Bank
subsequently agreed to installing the necessary facilities at Toot.



- 13 -
V.  ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
5.01     As mentioned earlier (para. 3.06), total project completion was two
and a half years behind the appraisal schedule, which resulted in a
corresponding delay in the realization of the full benefits of the project.
Appraisal and actual/estimate production results can be compared as followss
1978-80 1981-83 1984-86 1987-89 1990-92
Crude Oil (million bbls)
Old Wells                                                                  Total
Toot Wells 1,4,6 & 7
Appraisal                  2.5      1.8       0.9    0.4           -        5.60
Actual/Estimate            1.5     0.8        0.2    0.07          -        2.57
Toot Project Wells
Appraisal                  1.7     6.5        3.4    1.6         0.4       13.60
Actual/Estimate            0.1      1.2       2.3    1.4         0.7        5.70
Natural Gas (billion cu.ft.)
Old Wells
(Toot Wells 1,4,6 & 7)
Appraisal                  7.4     5.3        2.6    1.1           -       16.40
Actual/Estimate             -       1.3       0.8    1.1           -        3.20
Toot Project Wells
Appraisal                  5.3      19.5     10.2    4.9         1.3       41.20
Actual/Estimate             -      2.3        9.7    16.2       18.0       46.20
Oil production from the old Toot wells is down to 200 bbls/day versus
1,644 bbls/day predicted at appraisal.  This is because the two best pro-
ducers, Wells 1 and 6, have ceased to flow due to irremediable mechanical
problems. Similarly, at the time of appraisal, it was estimated that all of
the 8 new wells would be producers and would average, initially, 537
bbls/day/well. Unfortunately, only 5 of the 8 wells were completed as pro-
ducers and their initial production averaged only 420 bbls/day (para. 4.02).
Projected gas production is not affected as the completed wells have a higher
gas/oil ratio than expected.
5.02     Because of the substantial increase in the price of crude oil since
1977 and the fact that the Toot wells are delivering much more gas than was
expected at the time of appraisal, the economic effect of the considerably
lower oil production is diminished and the benefits of the project are still



14 -
significant. The assumption made at appraisal for economic evaluation
purposes and current values can be compared as follows:
Appraisal              Current
Cumulative Oil Production
Through 1992 (Millions bbls)                 13.60                   5.7
Value of Crude Oil (US$/BBL)                 15.25                  29.0
At appraisal, the economic rate of return on the project with past
investment considered as "sunk costs" was estimated at 53%. Under current
crude oil prices, and considering the associated gas equivalent in BTU value
to fuel oil, the rate of return is 22%. (Refer Annex II).
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
a. Background
6.01     OGDC is a government owned corporation established in 1961 under
Ordinance No. 37 with the technical and financial assistance of the USSR. The
assigned functions of the corporation include all aspects of petroleum
opert&tions from exploration to refining and sales. However, OGDC at the
prevent time is primarily involved in the exploration, development and
production of hydrocarbons. Although a quasi-autonomous entity instructed to
act on commercial considerations, OGDC has functioned in many respects as a
government department in the oil and gas sector.
6.02     OGDC's overall management is vested in a Board of Directors
consisting of 3-5 directors appointed by the Central Government. The Chairman
of the Board also serves as the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
At the time of appraisal OGDC employed about 3,300 persons. Although the work
force was excessively large by the standards of Western petroleum companies
operating in other areas, it reflected the labor intensive practices prevalent
in the region. Nevertheless, there was a shortage of skilled workers and
technical personnel due to the relatively low wages paid by OGDC and the
competition from the Middle East.
6.03     At appraisal OGDC's management capabilities were found to be in need
of strengthening in three areas: (i) Organizational Structure; (ii) Planning
and Budgeting Procedures; and (iii) Management Information System. In order
to remedy these weaknesses, OGDC agreed to employ an experienced and qualified
management consultant to review its management and planning practices and to
discuss with the Association the recommendations of the consultant with a view
toward their timely implementation (para. 2.06). This study was entrusted to
a management consulting firm financed by the Overseas Development Agency
(UK). It was completed in July 1981.
6.04     The consultants recommended that OGDC be re-structured with the
creation of a holding company and independent operating subsidiaries. While
the need for major reforms was accepted by GOP/OGDC, a number of the specific
recommendations were considered not to take into account adequately the local
conditions in Pakistan. The acceptability of these recommendations was aggra-



- 15 -
vated further by the somewhat high-handed manner in which the consultants dis-
cussed their proposals to strengthen OGDC with Government officials. Some of
the consultant's recommendations, however, have been accepted; and, recently,
important steps have been taken to define OGDC's role better and improve its
management and operations (para 6.06).
b. Organization and Management
6.05     The main weakness of OGDC's organizational structure is its pyramidal
character with more than a dozen middle to upper level managers reporting
directly to the Chairman. Although the aforementioned management consultants
recommended establishing independent operating subsidiaries along the lines
adopted by the Western petroleum industry, GOP/OGDC have found this not to be
feasible due to (i) a lack of sufficient number of trained and experienced
personnel to staff the new companies and (ii) the perceived difficulties in
intercompany relationships such as pricing and contractual arrangements
between sister companies funded by government resources.
6.06     Nevertheless, positive steps have been taken as follows: (i) OGDC has
established a wholly owned subsidiary, the Pirkoh Gas Company Limited (PGCL),
to carry out the development of the Pirkoh gas field in the context of a loan
agreement with ADB. Although PGCL is presently heavily dependent on OGDC's
human resources, plans are underway to appoint foreign technical experts to
assist PCCL staff in project implementation; (ii) OGDC has initiated action to
find a foreign partner for the development of the Dhodak field; (iii) a
separate project department, responsible for the coordination of all new
projects, has been established at the corporate headquarters; (iv) the
operational departments are being reorganized with increased financial and
administrative powers; and (v) an expatriate financial controller was
appointed with financing by ODA to reorganize OGDC's accounting system and
enhance the quality of its management information functions. Under his
guldance a management information system was designed and introduced. The
accounting system has been switched from manual to EDP. A detailed accounts
manual has been written and is under review by OGDC management prior to
distribution. A budgeting system has been developed and budget control
procedures put into effect.
c. Staffing
6.07     Throughout the period of project implementation, OGDC continued to
lose trained technical staff. It lost two of its most experienced engineers
to resignation and death and its efforts to recruit experienced engineers were
unsuccessful due in part to salary differentials with private oil companies
operating in Pakistan, as well as to the attractive renumeration being offered
to qualified petroleum engineers in the Middle East. OGDC has, however,
managed to recruit about ten recent college graduates and train them in oil
field operations in Pakistan and abroad. Although slow in coming, efforts to
revise OCDC's salary structure started bearing fruits. At the beginning of
1983 enhanced fringe benefits (such as increased rent ceilings and a more
liberal bonus policy) became effective. Nevertheless, OGDC's present salary
scales still remain considerably below those of the private sector petroleum



- 16 -
companies in Pakistan (POL and PPL). As long as this differential prevails,
prospects of OGDC attracting competent technical staff are severely
restricted.
d. Management Information System
6.08     OGDC's management information system (MIS) remains weak.  Accurate
project cost data are hard to obtain. In project management, emphasis is
mainly on the achievement of physical targets. There is no formal updating of
cost estimates and implementation schedules and the dissemination of
information is mostly through informal contacts. Corporate planning consists
of the preparation of annual work programs, budgets and and project
feasibility analysis. Part of the technical assistance to OGDC under the Toot
I Project was aimed at correcting deficiencies in OCDC's MIS. A new financial
reporting and cost control system was designed and introduced which is
expected to have positive results in the near future (Para. 6.06).
e. Conclusions
6.09     The underlying cause of OGDC's institutional weakness is the fact
that it remains a government agency working closely under the direction and
supervision of the concerned ministry but charged with the responsibilities in
a field where operating autonomy and both financial and management in-
dependence are standard. Therefore, pending a change in the institutional
character of OCDC, the main thrust of the institution building measures will
need to be in strengthening OGDC's management practices and accounting and
management information functions. Some meaningful progress in these
directions was achieved during project implementation. However, the concerted
efforts of the last few years will need to be continued to establish OGDC as a
capable and competent national oil company.
6.10     The absence of any significant base and realistic pricing policies in
the past have been major constraints to achieving this objective.  Recent oil
discoveries by OGDC itself in Tando Alam (Indus Basin) and by joint venture in
Dhurnal (Potwar Basin) in which OGDC has a 20Z interest have boosted OGDC's
oil production from an average of 2500 B/D in 1984 to 7300 B/D in 1985 and
production for 1988 is forecast to be almost 23,000 B/D.  The significant in-
crease in production has been matched by an equally significant increase in
the price which OGDC receives for its crude from an average price of US$ 7.77
equivalent in 1984 to US$ 20 in 1985. The improvement in OGDC's financial
performance is expected to be matched by improvements in management and
technical performance which OGDC will now be able to afford.
VII. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
a. Operating Results
7.01     A comparison of OCDC's financial results with the appraisal forecast
appears in Annex 3 of this report. Over the 1978-1983 period accumulated
losses from operations were Rs 247 million versus profits of Rs 1,832 million
forecast in the appraisal report. Total revenues in the period were only Rs
362 million compared with Rs 4,159 million estimated in the appraisal
report. Revenues were down in part because OGCDC were receiving only the



- 17 -
equivalent of US$ 3.52 per bbl versus US$ 15.25 forecast in the SAR, but the
main cause of these substantial differences is the low level of oil and gas
production in the period. The Toot field was expected to produce 12.5 million
barrels of oil and produced only 3.6 million and the Dhodak field was expected
to produce 15.8 million barrels of oil but has not yet been put into
production. Gas production in the period was also considerably below
estimates; there was no commercial production from Toot until 1982 and
cumulative production through 1983 was only 3.1 billion cubic feet compared
with 37.5 billion cubic feet predicted in the appraisal report. No gas has so
far been produced from Dhoda' although 158.3 billion cubic feet was forecast
for the period.
7.02     Operating Expenses and general and administrative were very close to
the figures estimated in the SAR - Rs 259 million actual versus Rs 267 million
estimated. Depreciation/depeletion, was only Rs 329 million compared with Rs
1,579 million estimated at appraisal. The difference is due to OGDC's
decision to amortize well costs on a "unit of production" basis instead of the
more rapid "straight line" method considered at appraisal.
Balance Sheet
7.03     The balance sheet as of 12/31/83 can be compared as follows:
12/31/83 Balance Sheet (Rs million)
Appraisal         _      Actual      Z
Current Assets                     821                 18     1917     48
Of which:  Cash                     (4)                       (62)
Accounts Receivable    (298)                      (32)
Advances                (153)                    (169)
Materials               (345)                  (1,643)
Miscellaneous           (21)                      (11)
Fixed Assets
Of which:  Assets                   2,504                     503
Less Accum. Deprn.      (1,016)                  (303)
1,488              32     200       5
Investments                        20                  -      193       c
Deferred Costs                     2,283                    2,033
Less:  Accum. Deprn.               - (55)                    (377)
2,283              50   S          42
Total Assets                       4                 100   3966       100



- 18 -
Current Liabilities                  419               9      188       5
Of which:  Accounts payable          (104)                   (123)
Current Portion of
Long Term Debt            (315)                   (65)
Long Term Debt                       1,230            27      662      17
Government Contribution             2,906             63   3,093       78
Workers Gratuity Fund                   57              1      23       -
Total Liabilities                         2          100   3,966      100
Total assets and liabilities are Re 646 million (14x) less than predicted at
appraisal. On the asset side some categories have considerable differences.
Materials in stock are almost Rs 1.3 billion more than estimated at appraisal,
but offset by fixed assets which are Rs 1.3 billion less. Deferred costs are
Rs 627 million below appraisal estimates reflecting the lower level of
exploration drilling. Tha liability side shows current portion of Long Term
Debt down by Rs 250 million from appraisal estimate and the remainder of Long
Term Debt lower by Rs 568 million. The quick ratio is 1.5 and current ratio
10.2. Debt equity ratio is 22/88.
c. Financial Covenants
7.04       The financial covenant that the GOP would ensure that OGDC achieve
a net of taxes real rate of return on the project of not less than 10%
(Section 3.02, Credit Agreement) could not be complied with because the
production levels were so much lower than originally forecast. However, the
Loan Agreement (2374-PAK) for the Second Toot Oil and Gas Development Project
has covenants (Sections 3.04 and 3.05) which establish that the price of oil
and associated gas produced at Toot shall be thtl same as that paid to the
private companies operating in the nearest area-' This has meant that oil
prices went up on July 1, 194 to almost US$16.00 per barrel and gas prices to
Rs 5.00 per MCP from $9.00 I per barrel and Rs 2.00 per MCF, respectively.
GOP continues giving serious consideration to evolve a proper pricing formula
for the oil produced by OGDC.
VIII. PERFORMANCE OF THE ASSOCIATION
8.01       Throughout the implementation of the psoject, relations between the
Association, GOP and OGDC have been good. As required, OGDC sent quarterly
technical progress reports and annual financial reports. At the request of
the Association OGDC started sending daily telex reports summarizing drilling
and well completion activities since August, 1981.
1/ In this case the Meyal field.
2/ $4.50 for oil from Toot wells 1, 4, 6, and 7.



- 19 -
8.02       The most important contribution of the Association took place
during project supervision.  The Toot Oil and Gas Development Project is the
mostly closely supervised petroleum project to date.  Between the initial
supervision in May 1979 and the project completion in January 1983 a total of
16 supervision missions visited Pakistan (average supervision mission interval
3.5 months).  Moreover, many of the supervision missions were strengthened by
the addition of consultants specializing in welL drilling and completion and
management of petroleum operations.  The Association has also coordinated
closely with CIDA in an effort to speed up the deployment in Pakistan of the
CIDA-financed experts and to ensure the complementarity of their input with
IDA's.
8.03       The Association's staff and consultants have also assisted OGDC in
areas where it needed outside technical assistance, such as the preparation of
terms of reference and tender documents, the evaluation of bids and the
interviewing of the candidates for the position of financial controller. The
Association's contribution has been particularly strong in the resolution of
technical operating problems, such as drilling and well completion
difficulties, well testing and reservoir data collection.
8.04       One area where the Association has had to change its expectations
was in converting the Toot Project Directorate into an independent project
entity with its own project implementation resources. The major factors which
contributed to this re-direction were OGDC's highly centralized structure in
which all responsibility and decision-making authority was vested in the
person of the Chairman and lack of sufficient human and material resources for
allocation to an independent Toot project entity. (The decision making in
OGDC has now been decentralized and heads of departments/projects are given
broader administrative and technical authority. Complete restructuring of the
operating departments is also under way).
8.05       OGDC and GOP have confirmed Lhat complying with the requirements of
the Association has not caused particular problems. Covenants agreed to
during negotiations were generally complied with, except that OGDC has been
unable to furnish to the Government annual financial evaluations of the
project and financial analyses of its situation and prospects indicating the
amounts to be paid per unit of production in addition to sales revenues which
would permit OGDC to achieve a d.c.f. rate of return for the project of 10%
(Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). The main reasons for the non-compliance
with this covenant were three-fold: (i) insufficient production for the
objective to be achieved at prices acceptable in Pakistan; and (ii) the
financial information which OGDC was able to produce lacked the reliability
necessary for the requirements of the covenant (e.g., even at the completion
of the project OCDC's accounting system was unable to produce reliable cost
data for individual fields and products due to wide geographical spread of
operations, availability of funds from various sources and time lag between
ordering and actual consumption of materials), and (iii) because of the
failure of a large number of wells and the lack of basic reservoir data, it
was impossible to determine the expected production levels with reasonable
accuracy. In retrospect this covenant was impractical. A better way to
tackle the problem of petroleum pricing is through price parity with other
producers, which is precisely how it is handled under the Second Toot Project
(para 7.04).



- 20 -
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.01       Overall the project was modestly successful.  Although failing to
achieve the forecast production target, it enabled OGDC to maintain oil and
gas production from Toot at commercial levels. It resulted in the resolution
of the drilling and completion difficulties encountered in the Potwar basin
(OGDC has not lost a single well since completion of Toot 13) and initiated
OGDC in the modern petroleum industry operating practices. More important in
the long run, it enhanced OGDC's operating and project implementation
capabilities. It was instrumental in furthering the Bank's dialogue with the
Government on energy policy, which resulted in the Government's initiating
long overdue reforms in the petroleum (especially natural gas) subsector.
These reforms have already started bearing fruits in the form of accelerated
development of gas reserves (e.g. Sui, Pirkoh, Mari and Kandhkot gas fields)
and increased involvement of the private sector in Pakistan's petroleum
industry.
9.02       At the time of appraisal it was recognized that the major project
risks were the difficult drilling conditions of the Toot field and the field's
not living up to expectations, especially regarding reservoir performance.
Unfortunately both came to be true. Because of the drilling difficulties,
only 5 wells out of 8 drilled could be completed as producers; and the oil
reservoir turned out to be much more complicated and heterogeneous than
originally assumed. Consequently, the appraisal estimates proved to be
optimistic regarding drilling costs, production rates and implementation
schedules.
9.03       In retrospect, in addition to optimistically expecting that the
drilling difficulties would be overcome by the use of better equipment and
foreign technical assistance, two areas stand out as misjudged at the time of
appraisal (i) the constraints of CIDA which financed the experts whose
performance was central to successful project implementation; and (ii) the
Government's commitment to reforming OGDC. The deployment of the CIDA experts
was delayed because of its constraints on employment conditions and greatly
increased demand for oil industry experts following the 1979 oil crisis. When
recruited, these experts were instructed as a matter of CIDA policy to act
only as advisors to OGDC and not to associate themselves with any operational
responsibility. As a result, full benefit could not be derived from their
expertise because of OGDC's lack of qualified operating staff in sufficient
numbers. Since it was clearly recognized at the time of appraisal that the
services of these experta were of critical importance for alleviating the
technical shortcomings of OCDC and ensuring the successful implementation of
the project, the Association's financing these services as well would have
been a better arrangement.
9.04       Although the Government's desire to have a capable national oil
company remains beyond doubt, consultant's recommendations to achieve this,
such as changing OGDC's organizational structure and making it financially
independent and free to set its own procedures and personnel policy, did not
result in significant government action in the proposed direction. The
failure to free OGDC from the standard civil service bureaucratic requirements
and pay scale was especially serious, since it kept OGDC from developing a
management structure in line with the requirements of the petroleum industry



- 21 -
and attracting experienced technical staff. Thus, OGDC will remain seriously
constrained in fulfilling the role assigned to it.
9.05       The experience of the project can be considered as another example
showing the difficulty of bringing about institutional improvement in the
absence of strong commitment on the part of the Borrower/Beneficiary.



SUOILW Or PROJECT Co0
ToOT OIL DEVEIOiNT PECT-PRASE I
NELL NO. TOOT 9 TRRu TOOT 15
APPRAISAL ESTDtATHS                                                                           ACTUAL
IN P. RS EILLION                      IN uS I )ILLINo                               IN P RS NILLIOS                            IN uS S NlLLIOSI
TOOT DUILLIN  PROQOM             .E .           L.C.         TOTAL        F.e.         L.C.   r.TL                       1.5.         L.C.         TOTAL        7.E.          L.C.         TOTAL
I. SUt. prepar tto                   -          2.500        2.500         -          0.2C0          0.200                -            6.172         6.172         -          0.587         0.587
2. listerrtal & Srviee           289.5C0       55.100       344.600      29.300        5.700         35.000           394.589         156.862      551.451      37.182        14.94         52.130
3. Sxpatriata Labeur                                                                                                                                                           1582.
(Drilliag coottratoo)        43.400        8.700       52.100       4.400        0.900          5.3C0            131.882         15.828       147.710      12.657        1.5J8        14.175
4. Lol Labor                        -         23.700        23.700         -          2.500          2.500               -           27.96        27.996         -           2.742         2.742
Studies                        2.500        1.300        3.800       0.200        0.100          0.300              4.407          5.000         9.407       0.446        0.506         0.952
6. Drilling Congultant,            5.000         1.300       6.300        0.500        0.100          0.600             3.232          0.811         4.043       0.327        0.082         0.409
7. lb. of Drilling Rigs           56.900          -         56.9C0        5.700         -             5.700            62.476            -          62.476       6.201          -           6.201
8. C  o AOvrbad                     _             _                                                                                   36.           36.587                    3.479          3.479
Sob-Total                    397.300       92.600      489.900      40.100        9.5no         49.6M0            596.586        249.256       845.842      56.813       23.862        80.675
Toor SmtrACE FACtLITUS
1. Ennasrtilg                      3.80        6.300        10.100      0.400         0.600          1.000             3.620          5.105         8.725       0.368        0.520         0.888
2. Production raelitia            28.500        6.300       34.800        2.900        0.700          3.600             2.135          0.217         2.352       0.216        0.022          0.238
3. civil Welka                       -         23.700       23.700         -           2.500          2.500               -            2.045         2.045         -          0.206         0.206
4. Caa  1ydratlc                  14.000         1.300       11.300       1.000        0.100          1.100             10.4F8         3.013         13.521       1.065        0.306         1.373
5. ftpelin.. Toak pep ste.        42.100       13.800       55.900        4.200        1.400          5.600             15.514         3.020         18.534       1.560        0.307         1.876
SBb-Total                     64.400       51.400      135.800       8.500        5.300         13.M00             31.757         13.420        45.177       3.209        1.363         4.5n
MGM    s smo t%pm
1. Road Tranaport                 13.600        1.300        14.900       1.400        0.100          1.5C0            21.940          2.940        24.880        2.220        0.297         2.5317
2. Cgo ArAeraft                   19.70         1.200       20.900        2.000        0.0            2-100                                            -           -             -
Slob-Total                    33.300        2.500       35.800       3.400        0.200          3.600             21.940          2.940        24.880       2.220        0.297         2.517
1. 8tiaude surw                   10.000        2.500        12.500       1.000        0.300          1.300             10.682         5.498         16.180       1.081        0.556         1.637
2. Sasawrir 8yalntit              2.500          -          2.500        0.200          -            0.200             2.372            -           2.372       0.240          -            0.240
3. ProJect Pruparation             75C00        2.50         IO.OCO       0.800        0.300          1.100               -              =             -           -            -
Sub-Total                    20.000        5.000       25.000       2.000        0.600          2.600             13.054          5.498        18.552       1.321        0.556         1.87?
4. Asistanes  to 0M                8.800        2.500        11.3C0       0.9C0        0.300          1.200               -             1.304         1.34         -           0.132         0.132
5. 3hmt Ahett.comoultent           1.200          -          1.200       0.100          -             0.100             7.900          0.500         8.400       0.800        O.OSI          0.851
6. Ctom Doty                         -         20.000        20.000        -           2.100          2.100                              -            -
Sub-Total                    10.000       22.500       32.500       1.000        2.4t00 3.4no                                     I.8O4         9.704       0.8C0        0.183         0.963
TOTL P1SC COST              545.000     1rS.000       719.000      55.000       18.000         73.000            671.237        272.918       944.155      64.363       26.261        90.629



- 23 -                                      ANNE lA
PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL & GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparison of Estimated & Actual Proiect Costsl/
Actual       estimated2/     Variance3/
(Rupees Millions)
Toot Drilling Program
Site preparation                                       6.172           2.500        +  3.672
Material & Services                                  551.451         344.600        +206.851
Expatriate Labour (Drilling Contractor)              147.710          52.100        + 95.610
Local Labour                                          27.996          23.700       +  4.296
Geophysical & Reservoir studies                        9.407           3.800        +  5.607
Drilling Consultants                                   4.043           6.300       -  2.257
Use of Drilling Rigs                                  62.476          56.900       +  5.576
G & A Overhead                                        36.587             -          + 36.587
Sub Total                                  845.842          489.900       +355.942
Toot Surface Facilities
Engineering                                            8.725          10.100        -  1.375
Production Facilities                                  2.352          34.800        - 32.448
Civil Works                                            2.045          23.700        - 21.655
Gas Dehydration                                       13.521          11.300       +  2.221
Pipeline, Tank pumps, etc.                            18.534          55.900        - 37.366
Sub Total                                   45.177          135.800       - 90.623
Logistic Support Equipment
Road Transport                                        24.880          14.900        +  9.980
Cargo Aircraft                                         -              20.900       - 20.900
Sub Total                                   24.880           35.800       - 10.920
Dhodak Studles
Seismic Survey                                        16.180          12.500        +  3.680
Reservoir Evaluation                                   2.372           2.500       -   .128
Project Preparatton                                _     _            10.000        - 10.000
Sub Total                                   18.552           25.000       -  6.448
Assistance to OGTI                                     1.304          11.300        -  9.996
Management Accounting Consultant                       8.400           1.200        +  7.200
Customs Duty                                             -            20.000        - 20.000
Sub Total                                    9.704           32.500       - 22.796
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                   944.155         719.000        +225.155
Comparison is in Rupees since OGDC records foreign expenditures in Rupees
in its cost accounts.
V Physical and price contingencies have been prorated and added to each
item.
+ - cost overrun;  -   cost underrun



OIL I GAS DEMELOPMilT CRORT1ON
DCRETAL TOOT DEVELOPT
ECOWffC RATE OF RETUN
ACTUALESTIATE
ALAA                                       ACTIUL/ESTTIATE                                ACTUAUESTISTE                                    BASE CASE
BASE CANE                                     BASE CSE                                      BASE CASE                                CRUDE PRICE I 29/bbl
CRUDE PRICE    5 *125Tbb                      CU  PUC  I $15.25/bbl                         CME PCe S $29/bbl                               AS   WD I $3.50NCF
OPERATING OPERATING    MET                    OPERATING  OPERATING    NET                   CETDIG OATI            NET                     OPERATDINI WIEAThI     NET
INsESTIOT   COST      REUEN  CAMH FLOW        DI'ESTH10T   COST     REVUE  CASH FLOW        IDWESTI      COST    REVEISE  CASH FLOW        DWESTNT   CosT        REJJEIUJE  CASM FLOM
YEAR                  USt NILLIONS                                 UP ffLLION6                                    US9 IILLIOIS                                  U MLIN
1978        7,39      0.00      0.00     -7,39            4.50      0.00      0.00      -4.50           4.50       0.00      0.00     -4.50            4.50      0.00      0.00     -4.50
1979       29.66      0.39      8.26    -21.79            5.20      0.30      0.66      -7.84           8,20       0.30      1.25     -7,25            8.20      0.30      1.25     -7.25
1980       20.30      0.80     18.91     -2.19           42.60      0.30      1,23    -41,67           42*60       0.30      2.35    -40.55           42.60      0.30      2.35    -40.55
1981       OM75       1.55     38.89     36.59           29.00     090       2.78    -27*12           29.00      0.90       5.28    -24.62           29400      0.90      5.28    -24*62
1912                  1.30     33.40     32.10            6.30      1.90      4,96      -3.24           6.30       I.90      9.42      1.22            6.30      1.95     10.84      2.59
1983                  1,12     26.54     25.42                      1.70      10,19      8.49                      1.70     19.37     17.67                      1.97     26.33     24.36
1984                  0,94     21.35     20.41                      1.70      10,17      8.47                      1.70     19,34     17.64                      1.98     26.53     24.55      t
t"5                   0.79     16,93     16.14                      1.20      12,70    l1SO                       1.20     24.16     22.96                      1067     36.17     34.50
1986                  0,67     13.57     12.90                      1.40      12.70     11.30                      1,40     24.26     22.76                      1.96     38.57     36.6t
198t                  0.58     10,98     10.40                      1.50      10,03      8,53                      1.50     19.08     17.58                      2.15     35.89     33,74
1998                  0.51      8.85      9.34                      1.60       6.18      4.58                      1.60     1*75      10.15                      2,35     30.96     28.61
t199                  0.38      519       4.81                      t.90       4.97      3,07                     1i90       9.45      7,55                      2.71     30.24     27.53
1990                  0.30      2.75      2.45                      2.00       4.91      2.91                      2.00      9.34      7.34                      2.82     30.34      7.52
1991                  0.27      2,14      1.97                      2.10      4.55       2.45                      2.10      8.64      6.54                      2.92     29.64     26,72
1992                  0,20      1+83      1,63                      2.30       1.40     -0,90                      2,30      2.67      0.37                      3.12     23.67     20,55
TOTAL       58.10      9,80    209,59    141.69           90,60     20.90      87.43    -23.97          90,60      20.00    166.26     54.96           90.60     27.10    323.06    210.36
InR a     52602                               DeR       -5.642                                         9.812                               D  a      22.35Z
VP I 10Z      66.43                           WVI 10e  Z    -35.97                          W  e IOZ=      -0.54                           NPV  102      53.95
I!



OIL *   S VA:VLWPNMT CORPOBATION
INCOME STATMJENTS FOR THE YEARS ZNDED JUNE 30
(MILLIONS CURRENT ROUPES)
1978           1979            1960            1981            1982            1983
ACT     EST    AM       EST    ACT       EST    ACT      EST    ACT      EST    ACT      iT
PRODUCTION - cauDE OIL (MILL.&BLS)
Toot                                0.3     0.6    0.6       1.5    0.S      2.1    0.6      3.3    0.5      2.8    0.8      2.3
Dbodak                                                                                       2.4             6.1             7.3
ATUAL   CAS (B3LL.CU.FT.)
Toot                                        1.7              4.6             6.4             9.9    0.7      8.3    2.4      6.6
Ohodak                                                                                      24.0            61.3            73.0
Savi/sundi                          3.3             3.3             3.4             3.2             2.5              1.8
OPERATING REVENUES - CRUDE OIL
Toot                               14      18      26       97     22      165     27      298     22      270     35      230
Dbodak                                                                                     386            1049            1343
MMb                                                                                                                  3
o0PeRATIG REVEJUES - NATURAL GAS
Toot                                        1                3               5               9      3        8     11        6
Dkodak                                                                                      34              92             118
Saxi/Nundi                          8               9              11              10               8               6
Miscellaneous Income                 12               4              16       12     43              64                8      15
TOTAL REVENUES                       34      19      39      100     49      182     80      727      97    1419      63    1712
Op*rating Expensa and G G A          27       9      29       20     31       2S     66       so     66       76      40      87
oapreaiation/Dep1etion               10      7S      25      III    56       165    4*       338     69      43S    124      455
Royalties                                      2              12              21              85       8     164      13     197
income Tax__________________________________
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES             37      86      54      143     87      211    111      473    143      675   17       739
net Profit from Operations           (3)    (67)   (1S)    (43)   (38)    (29)   (31)    254    (46)    744   (114)    973
tatecest Expense                              4                3              18              91     28      135     84      13t
Net Profit (Loss)                    (3)    (71)   (15)    (46)   (38)    (47)   (31)    163    (74)    609   (202)    836
Unsuccesful Operating Costs           2      89      55     139      58      109    128      228    131      327     45      337
Unsuccessful Joint '. nturos        -                    -   -4'
Geeral Profit (Loss.                 1C    (160     ..              0 (96)   (1 56)  tsl)    (65)  (236:    282  7 ZohTT 499
Operstiag Ratio (O)                 109     453    138       143    178      116    139       6S    147       48    281       43
o0



o) I t. 4.A. Dl'VEIl)l'blT COPO T1ION
BALAICE SHEET'
AS OP JUNE 30
(O4LLIONS CURREI4T RUPtES)
1977            1978           1979            1980             3981            1982            1983
LIABILITY & EQUITY    ACT   EST        ACT      EST    ACT      EST    ACT      EST    ACT      EST    ACT      EST    ACT       EST
CU3EUT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable         33    21       61       62    137      139    157      223    149      183    125       118    123      104
Cuirent Portion of
Long Term Debt'               26                51              95             231             294      46      309     65      315
ULCOL   LThBUXIT         33    47       61      113    137      234    1S7      454    149       477    171      427    188      419
LoD9 Teor  Debt         248    47      350       (4)   289      203    259      941    385    1408    497    1406    662    1230                        a
okezs Gratuity Fund    8    45           8       47      10      49      12      S1      1S       53     17       55     23       57
Contxibutions          1378           1624            2076             2568            3056            3762            4519
Profit (Lose)           (26)           (41)             (45)            (83)           (2M6)           (360)           (S94)
CnnatrUSa  & P%Qfit  1352  1260    1593    1507   2031    1958   2485    2289   2800    2894   3402    3735   3925    4s76
Leass Unsucessful
Wtploration Cost455   441       457      530    511      669    570       778    747    1006    828    1333    832    1670
et Equity               897   819    1136       977   1520    1289   1933    1Sl1   24S3    1888   2574    2402   3093    2936
WM    LU.ITSV  81TT 1186   958    1555    1133   1956    1775   2343    29S7   2602    3826   3259    4290   3966    4612
August 1984
'U 
S 



OIL   t ;AS DEVELOlPMENT CORPORATION
bALANCE SHE?T
AS OF JUNE 30
(MIL=LONS CUET UrPES)
1977            197S            1979             1980            1981             1982             1983
ASSETS         ACT      EST      ACT     EST    ACT       EST    ACT      EST    ACT       EST    ACT      EST     ACV      EST
CUSSES ASSETS
Cash                  72        4      47        4      46        4    114        4      S0       4    100         4      62        4
Short Term Invest.                                                                                       68               11
Acconats Receivable 19         10       33      13      67       27     32       40      27     131      65      246      32      298
Advaes   D Dep alts32        153     148      153    157       153    152      153    168      1S3    283       153     169      153
nventory -0i1                   1                1                5               5              21               21               21
Stocks & Spaces    635        225     852      219    965       242   1051      273   128S      300   1352       324    1643      345
SC     .f CUN        858      393    1080       390   1235      431   1349      47S   1S30       609   1868      748    1917      821
lnvstments             8        8      15       10      43       12    134       14    137       16    133        18     193       20
Investmnts - Sub.                                                                                       178
Pixed Asets         1S8      457      194      498    276      760    341    1S18    377    2181    440    2386          503    2504
Accumulated Dop.    76        113      91      176    126       235    164      324    203      505    243       759     303    1016
lEF1XID ASSETS    82          340     103      322    150       525    177    1194    174    1676    197    1627         200    1488
Detfrred Costs       285     217      415      411    611      842    822    1366    94S    1751   1135    2278    2033    2833
AcuMulated D p.    47                  58               83       35    139       92    184      226    252       381     377      55c
III DEPSRED  COSTS 238        217     357      411    528       807    683    1274    761    152S    883    1897    1656    2283
TOSAL ASSET         1186      958    1555    1133   1956    1775   2343    2957   2602    3826   3259    4290    3966    4612
:  ;^D-BS.SSSSasn.SUsSSin=S bW   .*=fl Sn b4SUS=Utl-z"-   _'Z-"&=SBSI-G--SI==                              t



OIL 4G46 03VZ8OPI? C00PO?Zc
S?aWII2fl or 803c38 AM A99LICA?30  Or VW
in mILLI6 or I am
1977/1797       1910/1979      19MAM90         1980/19"        u3Sl/92         1992f"
ACT  s         AM       36      CT A     8U     AcM     UST    A       en    ACT        an
SCMOP 1WA38
Internal Sourcest
Not Profit trem operations       5)     6?)    (141    43)   f33)    129)  (1731        2S4   (104)    744   359        973
Petp  cetiaosOpletion           lo       7S      2s    111       s*     1s5    45        33S     e       43S    12s      S5
Total Interal Cash Gemeratie   s          8       11     66     1S      136  t126)       592    (3S)   1179    134)   1420
G.O.P. Uqeity Cotribwtion        246     316      4S2    497    492      373    45O       442    706      232 .757 
tncr*         in w trkr sGratuity          2        2      2      2        2      3         2      2        2      6
Lonq Term Serig
took It4 Credeit                                  i      45      27     147    140        77    104       29     it
Ftturt 1Mm Lon 1                                                        210              I96              69              ;
Other                           149              (12)   257       2     277     64       139     91       70    104
Diffiereae an Ioroeig  Sachg.                    (21 25                  1      20)              16             113
Suppliers Credit A/cr 
Comeriatl LAose                  23               76             2      327      (0)     297    (24)    139       2 121  ,,
?otol Lng Tem Dorreovisg         177               69    32       56     969    17"       763    1S7      307    240      13* 
TOTAL  SOU8g                    423       no      032    *,,   56I         1405    539   1"7    a67    1720    963    1S,;.:
cAPiTAL. 0aSs
PWo)scta                       114  Iff         161    S24    17)       97       4       721    15)      2n7     39 30    M
NateriAle                      217               113            6              234               67             29
Subsidaiap C~~~~~~~~~~~~en3' ~~~~170
Driltlig 6 oter 4aipmnt          36      40        2    169      65     21S     36       223     6)      277     67       M.
"ve" C7*tUL OW&Mg                        235   ' 35f6    693    324    1193    354        949    43       56 s  1 
xxviamnan                        St2  3  54     139     St'    19      I"       2        1      3               3
Inormaso _n SeekI_g Capital  5  (28)    42    (13f   23       (21)   (53)    197    203       230   (135)    116
OnesaSano  aa~~mg7                              8        2      9               3        2a    6         2   6175)       2
ls   wtieuatg.              47       24     S2              64              So      231      1     *9       33      3i
lstana.t                                 4               3              is              91             335     75      237
?OIaL  mysga=|                   41       0      s2      54 !             13 . S        $22     61      429    126      446
tO?*& Azc~yj             4*       32S    532      069    566    140S  S5         179     667    1720    ff    IS14
* Actual hmteee.t could not he htemi~  sinc  peat of this to inIe1   n top t   u                  g
incapital cotla"                                                                                aP
- 316



ATTACMENT A
- \ From: t.iaved ?3u-'i    - 29 -         *         Page 1 of 5
Joi at Secret'ar,              No.  ( 1:)/  -1LDO I
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND NATURAL RESOURCES
CIHENTS FROM THE BORROWER
, 4G,ams: PETROMINERAL                                Isard. he 17th April,  )gb
tPhmu,: 824819
Dear Mr. Watanabe,
Re:   Project ComDletion Report on Pa':issan-Toot Oil
and Gae Development Project_.rdi6'-AX
This is to refer to your le ver dated tio 3rd March
1986 aderessed to the Secretary, Ministr. of Pe':-roleum and
NaturAl Resources and to forward herewith our co -ents on
the Project Completion Report relating to the subiect
project.
Yours Si3nccrely
aved 3'rlki
hIr. Yukinori *Jatanabe,
Director
Operations 2-veluation Department,
InternatIio:al 3snk for Reconstructi.on
and DeveloDment,
1818 H. Stieet N.W.
Washington D.C. 20L433.
APR 28 lNI



30                            Page 2 of 5
SUBJICTt COMMENTS ON WORLD AZNI'S DRAFT PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ON PAK1STAN-TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVSLOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT
867-PAK) -DATED 03 MARCH 1986
Para 1.01 states that the oil production in Pakistan is            Reflected in PCR
averaging 33,000 barrel per day representing approximately 30%             para. 1.01  -
domestic oil requirements, where as the actual current level
of production is approximately 40,000, barrel per day which
represents 25# domestic oil requirements.
Para 2.05 states that the CIDA offered grant  funds  to            Reflected in PCR
OGDC for the project which in fact were loan funds.                       para. 2.05
Para  3.01  refers  to  organizational  structure   and
management style of  OGDC  which  resulted  in  slow  decision
Beflected ln PCR
making.   The problems was due to the fact that this  was  the             para. 3.01
first project of its nature undertaken from funds provided by
any international agency and OGDC management was over cautious
in its decision making. With the passage of time, however,
necessary structural changes were made which resulted in
imtprovement.  During the period referred to there was shortage
of skilled and trained manpower because of exodpus of trained
manpower to Middle East; hence at that stage *t waa neither
desirable  nor  practicable  to  set  up  parallel   operating
departments for one project.
In Para 3.02 there is reference to  a  bid  called  for            Rfltd in PCi
operation of rig on drilling management basis whereas in  fact            para. 3.02
it was a labour contract.
Para 3.05 states the problem relating to the management
Reflected in PCR.
of  drilling  contract.   OGDC  had   little   experience   in            para. 3.05
administering such arrangements and relied heavily on the
advice of consultants and World Bank.   Prior to this  project



ATTAC=I    A
- 31 -                      Page 3 of 5
2
OGDC did not have experience of operating modern drilling
rigs, therefore it over estimated their impact in overcoming
the complicated drilling condition prevailing at Toot.
Para 3.09 compares the cost estimates with the actuals.           OCR para. 3.09
We feel that the expenditure  incurred  on  Logistic  Support,            4ompares the actual
4oats with SAU esti-
Dhodak Study,, Assistance to OGTI and  Management  consultancy           1jates which included
should not be included in tho cost of, Toot  project  as  this                        as project
expenditure wds to upgrade the overall capability of the
Corporation.
Para  3.13  states  that  the  adversarial  nature   of
relationship between OGDC and contractors which was due to the          ROflected in PCR
Para. 3.13
attempt  by  the  contractor  to  take  advantage  of   OGDC's
inexperience  in  contract  management.   After  OGI)C  gained
sufficient experience the problems were resolved.
Para  4.01  states  that  participation  of  a  foreign          PCR para. 4.01
changed to emphasize
partner  is essential, for development   of   Dhodak   field             OCDC's inexperience
considering OGDC's inexperience with condensate fields.   OGDC           in gas re-cycling
operations. At
is no longer inexperienced  with  condensate  fieldsg  it  has           present Daki ni is
successfully  appraised  Dakhni  condensate  field  which  was           being developed
without re-cycling
discovered in August 1983.   Four appraisal  wells  have  been           of the produced gas.
drilled and order for supply of gas processing facilities has
been placed on Heavy  Mechanical  Complex,  Taxila.   Gas  and
condensate supply will commence from Dakhni as soon as the gas
processing plant and pipeline to be laid by SNGPL are
commissioned.   OGDC believes that it is capable of developing
Dhodak independently.
Para 6.02 refers to an excessively large work force  of
Reflected in PCR
OGDC by Western  petroleum  compazy  standards.   OGDC's  work          para. 6.02
force when compared with that of foreign owned  oil  companios
operating in Pakistan is not excessively large.



ATTACHMEN A
- 32                        Page 4 of S
3
Para  6.08  states  that  Corporate  Planning  of  OGOC           PCR para. 6.08
consists of the preparation  of  annual  work  programmses  and          refers to corporate
plannin8g function,
budgots and relies heavily on the directions of  the  Ministry           not to the function,
of Petroleum and Natural Resources.   This  is  an  inaccurate           that the Corporate
Planning Department
description of Corporate  Planning.   Perhaps  the  Operations           of  OGDC is currently
Evaluations Department is not  aware  of  the  fact  that  the           fulfilling.  PCR
para. 6.08 is modified
proposal presented by Govern.rent and QOGDC delegation to  World         to reflect the last
Bank in April*1977 which led to the formulation  of  the  Toot           influence of the
Project was prepared by Corporate  Planning  Department.   The           Ministry of Petroleum
and Natural Resources.
department was also responsible for providing all *information
to successive IDA appraisal mission which visited Pakistan
during July and August 1977,  October 1970.   In  addition  to
preparation of annual work programme and budget the Corporate
Planning Department's, responsibility includes the management
of  petroleum  concessions,  negotiations  with  foreign   oil
companies,  monitoring  of  joint  ventures,  preparation   of
financial  plans,  analysis  of   investment   of   proposals,
provision of legal services and coordination with Government.
The contention that Corporate Planning relies heavily on the
directions of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources is
also incorrect.
Para 6.09 points Jut the need for strengthening of
OGDC's management pracrives without changing its institutional   Reflected in PCR
character.   The OGDC Ordinance envisaged establishment of the   para. 6.09
Corporation on commercial lines.   During the last  few  years
concerted efforts have been made to reorganize the Corporation
on operational and functional  basis.   The  departments  have
been delegated more operational authority and decision making
has  been  decentralized  which  is  reflected   in   improved
performance of the Corporation.



&ULCHMENT A
33                       Page 5 of 5
4
Para 7.04 deals with the unfulfilled loan covenant
whi.h required GOP to ensure a minimum real rate of return net        Incorporated in
PCR para. 7.04
of  axes of lb% to OGDC.   This was  not  achieved.   However,
more progress was made in this direction as wellhead prices of
OGDC oil were revised but are still below the level admissible
to other oil companies.   Serious consideration is being given
to evolve a proper pricing formula for OGDC's oil.
Para 8.04 states that the Toot Project Directorate was
not made into an independent project entity.   During the time        Reflected in PCR
of implementation of the project there was serious constraints        para. 8.04
or availability of technical man power due to exodous to
Middle East at that point in time to be optimize utilization
of manpower it was decided not to create parallel operating
department in each project    The decision making in OGDC  was
now been decentralized, where each departmental/project head
enjoys full administrative and technical authority.   Complete
restructuring   of   major    operating    departments    i.e.
Exploration,  Drilliqg  and  Production  on   the   lines   of
international oil companies has already been carried out.
Para 8.05 considerable progress has been made towards
improving management infcrmation  System  and  upgradation  of       Incorporated in
accounting data.   The processing and compilation  of  project    PCR para. 8.05
cost compilation was slow due to vide geographical spread of
OGDC's fields, availability of funds from various sources with
different reporting requirements and time lag between order,
supply and consumption of the material.
PCR para. 6.09 only
para 9.04 contradicts Para 6.09 where it is stated that    lists priority areas
there is no need to  change  the  institutional  character  of    for  institution build-
ing measures. It does
OGDC.  However,  within  the  framework  of   its   ordinance    not necessarily imply
0                         ~~~~~~~that there is no need
considerable operating authority can be given to OGDC.              tO change the institu-
tional character of
OGDC. PCR para. 6.09
is modified to elimi-
nate the ambiguity.



IBRD 13158R3
62?                              66                               70         *1                    714' 
U.  S.  S.   R.
PAKISTAN                                                          (   -                     r5CHINA
THE PETROLEUM SECTOR                                                               \
NATURAL GAS PIPELINES                                               j       
NATURAL GAS PIPELINES UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                      (                         364-
4   NATURAL GAS FIELDS                                     kt                                                   L -  o  
j   OIL FIELDS                                            0   A,
di   REFINERIES
- ROADS                                                    O
-.--. RAILWAYS                                                           .f                   I...
RIVERS                                                                    don             ,
--. -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                      jAMMU
.~  -~  ~   ~               BRow p d...   KASHMIR
~~~~~~~~~~"0                                                                        i.kMOAIR  f 
32?
w h * ~~~~~P/RKiO /
* NIKundi
'X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z/s  ,V, 6
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-2828-6                                                                       K ,myorKhon   ,2
ISLAMIC
REP. OF   l                                MAZARANI 4    /7        S
IRAN
--'             HI/NO!e
-24-                                                               24' .....
A rob boan  Se a
0       100      200      300 K/1OMEIM
.<  o   loo   VC0 MuS
JUNE 1986



