Document of                    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2427-PAK
REPORT AND RECOOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 6, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRIE1Y EQUIVALENTS
Rs. 1.0         -       US$0.101
Rs. 9.9         -      US$100
Rs. 1,000,000   -      US$101,000
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Metric Ton (at)                  -          1,000 Kilogras (kg)
1 Metric Ton (at)                  -          2,204 Pounds (lb)
1 Kilometer                        -          0.62 Miles
1 Ton of oil equivalent (TOE)      -          10 Million Kilocalories
1 Barrel ofoil. (BBL)              -          0.15899 Cubic Meter
1 Cubic Meter (03)                 -          6.289 Barrels
1 Cubic Foot (CF)                  =          0.02832 Cubic Meter
MCFD                               -          Thousand Cubic Feet Per Day
'HCF                               -          Million Cubic Feet
BPD                           -               Barrels Per Day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
GOP                                -          Government of Pakistan
OGDC                               -          Oil and Gas Development Corporation
OGTI                               -          Oil and Gas Training Institute
LPG                                -          Liquefied Petroleum Gas
POL                                -          Pakistan Oilfields Limited
PPL                                -          Pakistan Petroleum Limited
AOC                                -         Attock Oil Company
CIDA                               -          Canadian International Development
Agency
ODM                                -          Overseas Development Ministry (UK)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              IsLamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:           Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC).
Amount:                US.$30.0 million.
Terms:                 Standard.
Relending Terms:       From GOP to OGDC:  15-year repayment schedule with
interest at 10% per annum; GOt will bear the foreign-
exchange risk.
Project Description: The proposed project would help Pakistan increase its
domestic oil production through expansion of output
from the Toot field; assist OGDC in strengthening its
capabilities in the effective conduct of oil operations;
and provide the means for evaluating the potential of
the recently discovered Dhodak field and preparing for
its rapid exploitation. Major project components in-
clude: the drilling of eight wells and provision of
surface facilities at Toot; logistic support (heavy
road transport equipment and a cargo aircraft) for OGDC;
a seismic survey and reserve evaluation at Dhodak; pro-
vision of instructors and equipment for the Oil & Gas
Training Institute; and management and accounting con-
sultancy services for OGDC. The project carries the
risks normally associated with an oil development project.
Estimated Cost:                                          Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ millions)
Toot drilling program              7.4     32.1      39.5
Toot surface facilities            4.1      6.8      10.9
Logistic support equipment         0.2      2.7       2.9
Dhodak studies                     0.4      1.6       2.0
Technical assistance & training  0.2        0.8       1.0
Customs duties                     1.6       -        1.6
Sub-total                      13.9     44.0      57.9
Physical contingency               1.8      5.0       6.8
Price contingency                  2.3      6.0       8.3
Total                             18.0     55.0      73.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:                                  Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ millions)
GOP/OGDC                 18.0       5.0      23.0
IDA                        -       30.0      30.0
CIDA                       -        8.0       8.0
ODM                        -       12.0      12.0
Total             18.0      55.0      73.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                            IDA FY  1979    1980    1981    1982
(US$ millions)
Annual                       4.0    15.0       8.0      3.0
Cumulative                   4.0    19.0    27.0    30.0
Rate of Return:         56% (Economic).
Appraisal Report:       No. 1889a-PAK, November 22, 1978.
Map:                    IBRD 13158R1.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
l.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of
US$30 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a petroleum development
project. The Government of Pakistan would on-lend the proceeds of the credit
to the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) at an interest rate of 10%
per annum for a term of 15 years. The British Overseas Development Ministry
(ODM) and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) are also par-
ticipating in the project with a grant of US$12 million equivalent and a
credit of US$8 million equivalent on IDA terms, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Development Issues and
Policies" (No. 1924-PAK, dated April 7, 1978) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 11, 1978.
3.        Economic performance during the 1970s compares unfavorably with the
record of rapid growth of output and exports during the 1960s. GDP has grown
at about 3% per annum in real terms, compared to more than 6% during the 1960s,
and rapid population growth has meant that there has been virtually no increase
in per capita incomes. Output in the major productive sectors (agriculture and
industry) has risen even more slowly than GDP - at about 2% per annum - and GDP
itself only achieved a growth rate of 3% as a result of expansion in construc-
tion, government and service industries.
4.        To a considerable degree this disappointing performance has been due
to factors outside the Government's immediate or direct control. The 1970s
b)egan in crisis with the war with India and the separation of Bangladesh, and
there followed a series of economic and climatic misfortunes which undermined
the basis for growth. These included a poor monsoon in 1974/75 and serious
floods in 1972/73 and 1975/76, as well as the petroleum crisis and the subse-
quent world recession. Moreover, political instability and uncertainty have
had serious economic impLications. It is also, however, true that the policy
response to these probleras has in many respects been inadequate and has con-
tributed to the economy's disappointing performance. Changing attitudes to
the private sector, illustrated by a series of nationalizations that began in
1972, had a depressing effect on private investment, while legislation served
to increase real wages in the industrial sector at a time of other cost in-
creases and increasingly difficult export markets. Major increases in public
investment have more than offset declining private investment, but new invest-
ment has been concentrated in capital-intensive, long-gestation projects which
in many cases have yet to result in increased production.  This investment
contributed to a massive deterioration in the trade account. To finance



imports, and to cover serious shortfalls in public saving, the Government
resorted to heavy borrowing from abroad, including a major increase from OPEC
countries. Workers' remittances have increased very substantially over the
last two years, but stagnant exports and rising debt repayments still impose
a serious strain on the balance of payments while the problem of domestic
resource mobilization continues to constrain economic development.
5.        A start has been made in the process of policy adjustment and mea-
sures have been implemented which go some way towards solving the country's
serious resource management problems. The new Government has shown that it
attaches importance to the private sector. The agricultural processing
industries (except the vegetable ghee industry) have been denationalized, the
area open to private investment has been greatly extended, credit and tax
incentives (especially for export) have been improved and considerable
improvements have been recorded in the labor situation. Agricultural sup-
port prices have been maintained, and in some cases increased, and an effort
is being made to improve input availability to the farmer. Finally, a review
of Government investment and related priorities was undertaken in the context
of the preparation of the revised Fifth Plan, which recognizes the limitations
of overall resources and the need to redirect the pattern of economic develop-
ment away from large public industrial and other long gestation projects and
towards the agricultural and social sectors.
6.        To date the impact of these measures has been limited.  While GDP,
according to preliminary estimates, grew by around 6.5% during FY78, compared
to only 1.7% in FY77, this represents in large measure a recovery in agricul-
ture, especially in the cotton crop which fell disastrously in the previous
year. In contrast, there has been little indication of a significant recovery
in private investment or exports, the budget deficit is likely to remain large
in FY79 and inflationary pressures and the external balance continue to give
cause for concern. In addition, the 1977/78 wheat crop was a major disap-
pointment, with production well below, and thus import requirements con-
siderably above, the Government's target.
7.        While the overall economic situation provides little room for ma-
neuver, and the policy changes that have already taken place are in the right
direction, it remains the case that further measures which face basic issues
limiting economic growth in the longer term are needed. These issues include
the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the struc-
ture and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the factors lying behind
continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service
expenditures; the deterioration in the performance of public sector enterprises
and the administrative machinery generally; the low elasticity of tax revenues
and the problems of public resource mobilization; and the large trade deficit
and the continued dependence on capital inflows from abroad.
8.        Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Much of agricul-
ture's disappointing performance in recent years is attributable to the decline
in cotton output since other crops (with the notable exception of wheat last



- 3 -
year) have generally fared better. Nevertheless, even for these (wheat, rice,
sugar) there was a major setback in the early 1970s to the 'green revolution'
initiated during the 1960s. While a deceleration in the introduction of new
technologies after several years of rapid growth is not surprising, yields
still remain well below those achieved under comparable conditions elsewhere,
even for the new varieties. Since cropped areas have also failed to respond
to the opportunities created by increases in water availability (e.g., from
Tarbela) production has been well below the potential implied by the resources
and technologies available. Considerable potential still exists for the
additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, but it appears also essential
to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and programs which
have a direct impact at the farm level. Major improvements are possible in
the water delivery system and in the general level of agricultural practices.
High priority therefore needs to be given to water course improvement programs,
to investments designed to reverse water-logging and salinity and to projects
designed to establish a systematic and effective research and extension
service. Without such initiatives, agricultural growth in the longer term
will suffer and the benefits from the available inputs and resources will
remain well below their technical potential.
9.        Industry contributes about 16% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in industrial
production have, however, declined from about 10% per year during the 1960s
to only 2% in recent years. The major structural change in the industrial
sector since 1973 has been the expansion of the public sector from about 10%
to about 25% of industriaL assets. Private investment has declined markedly
as a result of nationalization fears, rapid cost inflation, labor problems,
adverse export market conditions and problems in raw material supply. The
textile industry, in particular, which accounts for about 40% of value added
in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of inefficiency, excess
capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets, while manufacturing
growth generally has been affected by the poor performance of public sector
enterprises. A revival in the industrial investment climate depends on a
period of reasonably prolonged stability and a shift in the overall balance
of production towards higher value added products which are responsive to
market opportunities and preferences. Also important will be progress in,
and results from, oil exploration for which there appears to be considerable
*         potential.
10.       While it is clearly vital to re-establish a base for more rapid
growth in the commodity-producing sectors, it is also true that rapid growth
in population, currently running at about 3% per annum, has seriously handi-
capped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have unfortunately had little effect and there have been few changes
in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines
in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on Government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved health
facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population
growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain
comparatively low and undue emphasis has been given to such elements as higher



- 4 -
education and urban health facilities. High priority needs therefore to be
given not only to increased allocations for family planning and social service
expenditure but also to its redirection to serve the wider interests of the
population and the economy.
11.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. Domestic resource mobilization has become a major prob-
lem area in the economy. Public sector development expenditures increased
from 5.5% of GDP in FY71 to 11.2% in FY77 while non-development expenditures
more than trebled. Public sector savings declined, and indeed were negative
from FY72 to FY75, although they recovered to about 2% of GDP in FY77. The
scope for non-inflationary domestic borrowing has been limited by declining
private savings, so that financing public expenditures has become heavily
dependent on external and domestic bank borrowing, with foreign assistance
financing no less than 70% of development expenditures in FY76, and an even
higher proportion of public investment. The share of development expendi-
tures financed through foreign assistance fell to 48% in FY77 because of a
decline in aid receipts. To improve domestic resource mobilization, addi-
tional taxation and improvements in tax administration are needed; non-
development expenditures must be restrained, possibly through selective
reductions in subsidies; and the contribution of public enterprises should
be enhanced, for instance through tariff increases. Given the limits to
domestic and external borrowing, and the constraints on increasing revenues
and decreasing current expenditures, it remains essential to limit the size
and adjust the content of the public investment program. Emphasis needs to
be given to providing adequate resources for agriculture and other areas
where substantial and rapid increases in production and exports appear
possible, as well as to the social sectors, which have been neglected in
recent years. Conversely, the proportion of resources devoted to capital-
intensive industrial and long gestation projects should be reduced.
12.       The external position has been greatly assisted by rapidly rising
workers' remittances from abroad, notably from the Middle East; these have
risen from US$130 million in FY73 to US$578 million in FY77 and to an esti-
mated US$1,100 million in FY78. This increase has, however, been more than
offset by a massive deterioration in the trade balance with the result that
the current account deficit increased from about US$130 million in FY73 to
more than US$1,000 million in FY75. It remained at roughly this level in
FY76 and FY77, with rising remittances offsetting further increases in the
trade deficit, but declined in FY78, due mainly to the massive increase in
remittances. Allowing for debt repayments, however, external financing
requirements amounted to about US$1,100 million in FY78. Long-term capital
inflows on concessional terms have been insufficient to cover this amount
and - even after suspending debt payments to Iran - substantial recourse to
short-term borrowing proved necessary. The major uncertainty for FY79 and
beyond relates to remittances but, assuming a relatively conservative estimate
for these, external financing requirements are likely to remain well above
US$1,000 million in nominal terms, even allowing for fairly optimistic trade
projections.  While financing in the range of US$1,100-US$1,300 million was



- 5 -
obtained during the mid-1970s, funds from OPEC sources may be more difficult
to arrange in the future while assistance from traditional donors is only
likely to be forthcoming in the required amounts if appropriate development
policies are implemented. Unless workers' remittances rise more rapidly than
is now expected, therefore, the external position is likely to continue tight.
13.       Total external debt outstanding at the beginning of FY78 amounted
to about US$6.27 billion of which US$3.76 billion was due to Consortium
bilateral donors, US$1.04 billion to OPEC, US$1.08 billion to multilateral
agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders. Contractual
debt service to official agencies rose from US$313 million in FY73 to US$394
in FY77 although the burden of these payments was eased to US$200 and US$310
million respectively as a result of debt relief arrangements. The four-year
debt relief agreement with bilateral consortium members expired on June 30,
1978, and if no further agreement is reached, debt service payments will rise
steeply, greatly increased by repayments under relatively short-term OPEC bor-
rowing. In FY79, contractual payments are expected to amount to around US$535
million and considerably more in subsequent years. As a proportion of exports,
non-factor service payments and workers' remittances, debt service can be
expected to rise from about 15% in the FY75-77 period to around 17.5% in FY79,
assuming substantial growtlh in both exports and workers remittances. Pakistan
obviously needs to exercise care in protecting its ability to borrow to meet
future requirements, and to restrict commercial borrowing to a minimum. For
this reason, Bank Group lending to Pakistan is currently confined to IDA
credits. Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY77 was about
15% of its external public indebtedness; by 1980 this ratio is likely to fall
to about 11%. The share of the Bank Group in total debt service (after taking
into account debt relief from other creditors) is now about 20%, but this is
expected to decrease to about 9% in 1980.
14.       Pakistan's resource endowment, especially in the Indus Basin system,
is substantial and during the 1960s the economy demonstrated a considerable
capacity for growth. Roug;h estimates suggest that the economy could grow at
perhaps 5-6% per annum over the next five years, and that this could be accom-
panied by a wider distribution of the benefits of growth than was achieved
during the 1960s. A start: has been made in the process of policy adjustment,
but it is clearly evident that a wide range of further initiatives are neces-
sary to deal with the causes underlying the economy's disappointing performance
in recent years. Only if these new policies and programs are pursued consist-
ently over a number of years will the basis for longer-term improvements in
living standards for the population as a whole be established.
PART II -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.7 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all sec-
tors of the economy. Through FY78, 38% of total commitments were for public



-6-
services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for indus-
trial imports) and 2% for education.  Lending for public services has amounted
to almost US$700 million and has included loans and credits for railways,
electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommunications and
water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture was for Indus
Basin projects. Lending for industry has been mainly through the Pakistan
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). For most projects for
which loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is now going ahead
satisfactorily.  The principal problems being encountered are that the rates
charged by some of the public services have not kept pace with inflation and,
hence, some utilities are not earning adequate returns. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of October 31, 1978 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.  One of
these is to support the directly productive sectors of the economy and, in
particular, to increase production of import substitutes such as foodgrains,
edible oils, fertilizer and engineering goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial and
agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for industry
will continue to be through financial intermediaries. The most important
part of future lending for agriculture is expected to be for the Government's
program to increase productivity in the Indus Basin by controlling salinity
and improving the utilization of surface irrigation and groundwater. The
Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDP technical assistance grant for
improving agriculture and water planning in the Indus Basin.
17.       Another objective is to support the necessary expansion of, and
to improve the institutions which are responsible for, the principal public
services which have benefitted from Bank Group lending in the past, namely,
the Telegraph and Telephone Department, Karachi Port, Water and Power Devel-
opment Authority, Pakistan Railways, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Company and
the Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency. A number of these agencies are beset
by institutional weaknesses. In some cases, improvements are being made with
technical assistance financed under loans and credits. In other cases, where
the problems are of such a nature that action by government is required, the
Bank Group is encouraging GOP to take remedial measures.
18.       A third objective is to extend lending operations into areas which
will help to bring economic development to the poorest strata of the popula-
tion. This shift implies increased lending for agriculture and rural develop-
ment and will involve significant lending for projects complementary to the
Indus/Tarbela works. In the urban sector, Bank missions have worked with
municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,
whose population now exceeds 4 million, and Lahore, Pakistan's second largest
city. A Karachi master plan was completed in 1974 with the assistance of
consultants financed by UNDP. Within the framework of the plan, a project
was proposed and appraised for urban upgrading in the Lyari section of the
city. This project, however, has been deferred indefinitely due to Government
reconsideration of the project cost and financial arrangements. Planning in
Lahore is at a much earlier stage than in Karachi and the immediate need is



- 7 -
for technical assistance. Accordingly, the IDA credit for the second Lahore
water supply, sewerage and drainage project includes provision for the financ-
ing of urban studies in Lahore. The emphasis being given to agriculture and
other projects with a low foreign exchange component justifies the financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases.
19.       A number of projects for Bank Group financing are currently under
appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. Projects under appraisal include
a third power project, a further irrigation and drainage project, a fourth
agricultural credit project, a primary education project, a third highways
project and an agricultural extension project in Sind. Preparatory work is
proceeding on a Karachi bulk water supply project, a grain storage project
and a vocational educaticon project.
20.        IFC has made investments in nine Pakistan enterprises for a total
of US$30.2 million, of which US$22.9 million was by way of loans and US$7.3
million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$11
million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three
in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one each in
cement, steel and fertilizers. IFC is also a shareholder of PICIC.
PART III - THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR
Energy Consumption and Supply
21.       Despite the fact that Pakistan is self-sufficient in important com-
mercial energy sources such as natural gas and hydro power, approximately 40%
of its commercial energy requirements are still met by crude oil and refined
petroleum products, almost 90% of which is imported. Following the sharp
rise in crude oil prices in 1973, net imports of oil and oil products in-
creased from US$50 million in FY73 to US$370 million in FY77, equivalent to
33% of the current account deficit in the balance of payments; in FY78 the net
import bill exceeded US$400 million. Though Government policy has continued
to encourage use of domestic energy resources, the scope for replacing petro-
leum consumption by alternative energy supplies such as natural gas will be
more limited in future. Unless new supplies of indigenous crude oil are dis-
covered, petroleum imports will continue to increase with future growth in
consumption of commercial energy and will exert a continuing adverse effect
on Pakistan's balance of payments.
22.       Total energy consumption in the commercial sector increased by 7.5%
per annum during 1965-76, while GNP increased at approximately 5% during the
same period. The breakdown of commercial energy demand by primary energy
source shows that natura[l gas and hydroelectricity have become increasingly
important sources of commercial energy in the past decade, experiencing annual
average growth rates in excess of 10%. This has been paralleled by a relative
decrease in the use of c:oal and petroleum.



- 8 -
Share of Total Commercial Energy Demand
(%)
FY64     FY74      FY77
Petroleum                   50.5     39.5      38.9
Natural Gas                 23.0     38.1      34.1
Coal                        17.0      7.0       5.3
Hydel                        9.5     14.9      20.6
Nuclear                      -        0.5       1.1
Total                  100.0    100.0    100.0
Source:   GOP, Ministry of Petroleum.
Natural gas and hydroelectricity currently supply 34% and 20% of demand re-
spectively and petroleum 39%, with the remaining 6% of commercial energy
demand being supplied by coal and nuclear energy. Non-commercial fuels (such
as wood, animal and vegetable wastes) are used extensively and account for
approximately half of total energy consumption in Pakistan, i.e., commercial
plus non-commercial. Consumption of natural gas and hydroelectricity is ex-
pected to grow at an annual rate of 10-12% over the next five years, or at
about twice the rate of petroleum products. Nevertheless, it will become
increasingly difficult to continue to curb further the demand for oil products
without affecting economic growth. Per capita commercial energy consumption
in Pakistan is low, only about 0.13 tons of oil equivalent (TOE) per year
during FY77 which compares with a world average of 1.37 TOE, and an average
for developing countries of 0.27 TOE.
23.       Pakistan's domestic energy resources are relatively unusual in being
characterized by sizeable reserves of natural gas, substantial hydro potential,
but only limited known reserves of crude oil and exploitable coal, and no
uranium or other mineral ores which might be used as nuclear fuels. Present
recoverable reserves of natural gas, excluding recent discoveries at Dhodak
and Pirkoh, are about 9 trillion cu. ft. --sufficient for 50 years production
at the current rate of 180 billion cu. ft. per year. Pakistan also has sub-
stantial hydroelectric power potential, estimated to be in the order of
25,000 megawatts (MW), of which about 10,000 MW are considered to be economic-
ally "recoverable." Hydroelectric power in 1977 constituted about one-half
of the total installed generating capacity of 3,300 MW and accounted for half
of total power generation. Most of the remaining 50% was produced by natural
gas fueled units. Although there are extensive coal deposits, this fuel has
not played a significant role in the supply of energy because of the poor
quality and remote location of the known deposits.
24.       Crude oil production in Pakistan is limited to a portion of the
Potwar basin, 60-80 miles southwest of Rawalpindi. In 1977, domestic oil pro-
duction averaged about 9,500 barrels per day (BPD) and accounted for only 13%
of total consumption, i.e., 3.5 million tons per year. The Potwar basin in-
cludes the Toot field operated by the Government-owned Oil and Gas Development



- 9 -
Corporation (OGDC) and the Meyal field, owned and operated by Pakistan Oil-
fields Limited (POL), and additional minor and nearly depleted fields owned
by POL and the Attock Oil Company (AOC).
25.       Natural gas production has increased sharply in the past decade,
reaching 184 billion cub-ic feet (5.4 million TOE) in 1977 -- triple that of
1965 and nearly seven times the 1960 level. Since it appears probable that
abundant supplies of gas will continue to be available in Pakistan, produc-
tion levels will be determined primarily by the growth of the domestic mar-
ket, except in the event that export outlets are developed. Before long the
Government may be faced with the problem of coordinating the exploitation of
existing dry gas fields such as Sui and newly developed fields producing
associated gas, whose only alternative use would be reinjection or flaring.
In anticipation of this situation GOP recently initiated a long-term gas
utilization study with technical assistance from the UK (see also para-
graph 36).
Sector Organization
26.       The oil and gas sector is administered by the Ministry of Petroleum
and Natural Resources which includes four directorates having responsibility
for oil operations, gas operations, petroleum concessions and oil movements.
27.       Oil and natural gas production is at present primarily the responsi-
bility of two companies, Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) and Pakistan Oil-
fields Limited (POL), both with majority private ownership. PPL, in which
Burmah Oil Company (BOC), holds 70% of the equity, is principally involved in
the development of the Sui gas field. POL's main activity is exploration
and production in the Potwar area where it is currently developing the Meyal
field; 60% of POL's equity is held by Attock Oil Company (AOC), a London-based
company in which 51% of the equity is owned by a Saudi-Kuwaiti investment
group and the remaining 49% by Attock Petroleum Limited. The remaining sector
production has been undertaken by the Government-owned corporation, OGDC.
28.       Pakistan's requirements for refined petroleum products are met by
three refineries: Pakistan Refinery Ltd. (PRL), the state-owned National
Refinery Ltd. (NRL), which are both located in Karachi and refine imported
crude oil, and the AOC refinery which refines indigenous crude oil.
29.       AOC's refinery at Rawalpindi processes all Potwar crude.  Its max-
imum capacity is about 10-11,000 BPD. However, with development of the Toot
and Meyal fields to their full potential, the maximum production from these
fields could go as high as 30,000 BPD. Recently AOC and GOP reached agreement
on terms under which AOC will carry out further development of the Meyal field
and an expansion of its refinery. This agreement includes a general provision
for AOC to refine up to 10,000 BPD of crude produced by OGDC, thus insuring
OGDC an outlet for all incremental production foreseen under the proposed
project. Conclusion of detailed arrangements between OGDC and AOC covering
the refining of crude oil from the Toot field is a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit (Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 10 -
Exploration and Development Strategy
30.       Pakistan has a land area of 310,000 square miles of which sedimen-
tary basins, which have the characteristics for generation and accumulation
of hydrocarbons, cover an area of over 250,000 square miles. In addition,
offshore areas extending to 200 miles are also available for petroleum explor-
ation and development. Over the past 30 years, 160 exploration and develop-
ment wells have been drilled in Pakistan by foreign oil companies, and a
further 20 wells by OGDC. However, the pace of exploration activity in
Pakistan has been uneven. Exploration activity by foreign companies reached
a peak in 1958 following the discoveries of large gas fields in the mid-1950s,
but fell off again sharply from 1960 onwards as a result of the prevailing
unattractive well-head prices for natural gas, the extremely large petroleum
deposits being discovered in the Middle East and the relatively unattractive
prospects for commercial production of crude oil in Pakistan at pre-1973
prices.
31.       In 1961, the Government with financial and technical assistance
from the USSR established the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC)
with the objective of having it explore for and develop indigenous oil and
gas resources. OGDC has had only modest successes since its inception, pri-
marily because the equipment used to date has been unsuitable for the deep
drilling conditions prevailing in Pakistan. Its major accomplishments have
been the discovery of Toot in 1968 and, more recently, the Dhodak gas con-
densate field and a potentially large natural gas field at Pirkoh. However,
in recent months following the reorganization of OGDC and the acquisition of
modern drilling equipment, OGDC's drilling performance has shown a marked
improvement in terms of speed and efficiency. Four modern rigs are currently
being deployed in the development of the Toot field, the further delineation
of Dhodak and in an exploration well at Kotrum.
32.       In 1976, the Government amended its Mineral Development Act of 1948
to attract foreign oil company participation in exploration. Seven agreements
have now been signed, including a joint venture between OGDC and Gulf Oil
Corporation. As I reported to you on November 16, 1978 (R78-253), the Bank
played a role in helping OGDC and Gulf conclude their recent exploration agree-
ment and has confirmed to GOP that, in the event of a commercial discovery,
it will be ready to consider any request that the Government may address to
the Bank for assistance in financing production facilities and in arranging
financing from other sources. Based on the agreements already signed and those
being negotiated, it appears that foreign companies will spend about US$140
million on exploration in petroleum over the next 5-6 years; i.e., 15 to 20
wells, or more than twice the average rate of one well per year for the pre-
vious five-year period. Although this is a relatively small amount for a
country the size of Pakistan with its extensive sedimentary deposits, there
are good prospects that some worthwhile discoveries will result. The most
encouraging discovery in recent months has been a new oil field at Adhi,
where a PPL/AMOCO joint venture has just completed production testing of a
well estimated to produce about 3,000 BPD of a light, high quality oil.
33.       The Government's sector investment program for the five-year period
1979-84 is aimed at accelerating the pace of exploration and development



- 11 -
activity. Approximately US$570 million has been earmarked for the oil and
gas sector, of which two-thLirds (US$375 million) has been allocated to OGDC's
exploration and development program which will permit a sizeable level of
exploration and drilling to be undertaken. It is imperative, however, that
adequate resources continue to be allocated to bring into full production
known and newly discovered oil fields. The Government has agreed to consult
with the Association from time to time on the scope and adequacy of its invest-
ment programs for the sector and to make available the funds and facilities
required to carry out such programs (Section 3.04 of the draft Credit
Agreement).
34.       In the short term (1978-83), Pakistan's success in reducing its
dependence on imported crude oil -- which now accounts for 87% of total petro-
leum consumption of 75,000 BPD -- will be determined by its ability to bring
three known fields into full production: Toot and Meyal, which are already
producing, and Dhodak, whose potential has yet to be evaluated. On the basis
of present production levels, and the estimated pace of development activity,
the production of indigenous crude oil from discovered fields could increase
from an estimated 0.46 million tons (9,500 BPD) in 1977 to 2.40 million tons
(49,300 BPD) by 1983 as a result of development drilling at the Meyal, Toot
and other possible fields. This would reduce the prospective import bill by
nearly US$200 million per year. The key uncertainty in the short term in
estimating future domestic production is the potential of the Dhodak field
which the proposed project will help to evaluate. In the medium term,
Pakistan's continuing dependence on imported crude oil will be critically
determined by the success of exploration activity being undertaken by foreign
companies and OGDC. Given the increased levels of exploration expected,
modest success could reduce the prospective import bill even further by the
mid-1980s.
Pricing Policy
35.       Petroleum pricing policy in Pakistan has been guided by a twofold
strategy: first, to stimulate the exploration for and development of petro-
leum resources by basing well-head prices for new oil discoveries on import
parity; and, secondly, to protect key productive sectors, as well as low-
income consumers, from the major repercussions that would have been caused by
a sudden rise in the domestic prices of key energy inputs, such as electricity
and petroleum. This pricing strategy has been generally successful. The im-
pact of rapidly rising energy costs has been lessened, while exploration com-
panies have already made an encouraging response to increased well-head prices
for crude oil. Nevertheless, although consumer prices of petroleum products
have been raised at regular intervals since 1973 to keep pace with increased
import costs, distortions have resulted from the attempt to insulate low in-
come groups from the full impact of these adjustments. Other anomalies have
arisen in the distribution-cost and ex-refinery price structures. In order
to help eradicate such anomalies, the Government has agreed to undertake a
study which will examine and make recommendations on a number of specific
pricing issues. Terms of reference for the study have been agreed with the
Government and the study is to be completed by December 31, 1979 (Section
3.03 of the draft Credit Agreement).



- 12 -
36.       The current well-head price for natural gas provides little incen-
tive for new exploration. While supplies of natural gas are fully adequate to
meet domestic demand in the medium term, the policy of regulating gas prices
at very low levels may require examination before long if additional reserves
are to be developed to meet long-term needs. These and other issues relating
to the optimum long-term utilization of Pakistan's gas resources are the
subject of a UK-financed study currently being conducted by consultants on
behalf of GOP and under terms of reference reviewed by the Association.
37.       The current pricing formula for petroleum products includes an ex-
cise duty and a development surcharge element. Receipts from excise duties
contribute to Federal Government general revenues, while development sur-
charge receipts have been used for three specific purposes since the oil
crisis: (i) to cover the costs of refinery operations; (ii) to subsidize
domestic prices of imported petroleum products (primarily kerosene); and
(iii) to cover the transportation expenses of the marketing companies, since
the allowed freight margins are currently insufficient to meet actual expenses.
Any residual development surcharge revenue becomes a part of general revenues.
During FY76 and FY77, the development surcharge receipts were sufficient to
cover the operating shortfalls of the refineries and marketing companies, as
well as to provide a net contribution to government revenues; significantly,
this contribution was largest in FY76 when the refinery operations were placed
for a brief period on a self-financing basis. Development surcharge revenue
in FY78 was insufficient to cover anticipated outlays, principally because of
losses incurred by the Karachi refining operations. However, it is expected
that, as a result of a further increase in consumer prices announced in the
FY79 Budget, the total revenue generated from the development surcharge this
year will be sufficient to cover the cumulative requirements of the refinery
operations, the inland freight pool and the subsidization of imported products.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed its intention of endeavoring to
keep net receipts from the development surcharge positive in future years
(Section 3.05 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Past Bank Involvement
38.       The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first lending oper-
ation in Pakistan's oil sector. The Bank Group has been actively involved
in developing Pakistan's natural gas transportation and distribution network
through five loans totalling US$116 million equivalent to the Sui Gas Trans-
mission Co. Ltd. and to Sui Northern Pipelines Ltd. Four of the projects
have been successfully completed and physical implementation of the fifth
project is proceeding satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
39.       The Potwar Basin has so far been the only area in Pakistan to yield
crude oil production. The largest field in the area, Meyal, owned and operated



- 13 -
operated by Pakistan Oilfields Limited (POL), was discovered in 1968 and
produced about 6,500 BPD in 1977. OGDC's Toot field was also discovered in
1968 and accounted for approximately 1,500 BPD of the area's production in
1977. The remaining Potwatr production is divided among four smaller, mostly
depleted fields. Both Toot and Meyal are estimated to have considerable
unexploited production potential, of the order of 10,000 and 20,000 BPD,
respectively. In 1976 OGD)C drilled a discovery well at Dhodak. Preliminary
data from this discovery well indicates a gas condensate deposit containing
a very light crude oil with a high ratio of gas to oil.
40.       A Pakistan delegation representing GOP and OGDC visited the Bank
Group in June 1977 to present proposals for developing the Toot and Dhodak
fields. Bank staff felt that further reservoir evaluation work was required
for Dhodak but agreed to appraise a Toot Oil Development Project. An
appraisal mission visited Pakistan during July and August 1977 and returned
in October 1977 and February 1978 to review the progress on outstanding
issues, principally relating to refinery arrangements and the production
potential of Toot. Negotiations with GOP and OGDC, in which representatives
of CIDA and ODM also participated, were held in Washington during September
1978. The Pakistan delegation was led by Mr. M. Masihuddin, Additional
Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum.
Project Description
41.       The proposed project has three objectives:  (i) to boost domestic
oil supplies by increasing production from Toot from its present level of
about 1,500 BPD to approximately 9,500 BPD by 1981; (ii) to assist OGDC in
strengthening its capacity for effectively conducting oil operations; and
(iii) to evaluate the potential of the Dhodak discovery and prepare for
its rapid exploitation. In addition, the project would provide the Bank
an opportunity to discuss; with and assist Pakistan in identifying and resolv-
ing a number of issues bearing on the energy sector. These include questions
relating to the Government's sector investment program; the appropriate prices
to charge for competing fuels; the adequacy of incentives to potential private
investors in the oil and gas sector; refinery and transport margins; and the
future disposition of "surplus" quantities of natural gas (paragraphs 33-37
above). The Bank's involvement in the project has helped to attract other
external assistance from Canada and the U.K.
42.       The individual components comprising the project are as follows:
1.   The Toot Oil Drilling Program
43.       Eight wells are proposed:  seven production wells and one delinea-
tion well to provide additional data on the extent of the Toot field. A
drilling consultant, explert in deep drilling techniques, would be assigned
to the project for the duration of the drilling program. After completion of
the delineation well a reservoir study would be undertaken to assess Toot's
ultimate potential and to determine what further action would be required to
exploit the field.



- 14 -
2.   Toot Surface Facilities
44.        The project would include all facilities required to produce and
dispose of the crude oil and associated gas, including gas-oil separators,
oil and gas gathering systems, gas dehydration unit, storage tanks and a
20-mile crude oil pipeline to Dhulian connecting with POL's line to the
Rawalpindi refinery.
3.   Logistic Support
45.       OGDC's past drilling programs have been hampered by extensive
delays and disruptions because of inadequate logistic support. The project
would include heavy road transport equipment for supplying and moving drill-
ing rigs and a cargo aircraft for use in emergencies and for transport of
critical personnel, materials and equipment.
4.   Dhodak Studies and Project Preparation
46.        The project would include a seismic survey of the Dhodak field and
a reservoir evaluation after OGDC has drilled the required delineation wells.
If the field is found to have sufficient recoverable oil reserves, a feasi-
bility study will be undertaken to define the development program and the
required downstream facilities.
5.   Training and Technical Assistance
47.        The project would assist the Oil and Gas Training Institute (OGTI)
in establishing an effective program to train OGDC's operating and technical
staff. Funds would be available for expatriate instructors and for the pro-
curement of laboratory equipment and training aids. Funds would also be
included for consultancy services to OGDC in management and accounting.
The Beneficiary
48.       OGDC is a Government-owned corporation established in 1961 with
technical and financial assistance from the USSR. The general functions of
the Corporation are to "plan, promote, crganize and implement programs for
the exploration and development of oil and gas resources, and the production,
refinery and sale of oil and gas ...."  Although a quasi-autonomous entity
instructed to act on commercial considerations, OGDC has functioned in many
respects as a Government department in the oil and gas sector. A purpose of
the project would, therefore, be to strengthen OGDC's financial autonomy.
49.       OGDC's overall management is vested in a Board of Directors
appointed by the Government. The present Board includes three members from
the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources and two representing national
petrochemical and mineral development corporations. The Chairman of the
Board also serves as chief executive officer of OGDC.
50.       OGDC employs about 3,300 persons, of which approximately 400 fall
into various skilled categories including drillers. In spite of a salary



- 15 -
policy which is generally comparable to the private sector, there is a
shortage of experienced and qualified personnel, particularly for the
various drilling operations, because of competition from the Middle East.
To mitigate the skilled manpower constraints, OGDC is placing increased
emphasis on internal training programs, overseas technical training and
the use of expatriate labor contracts. The proposed project would support
this effort by providing for foreign drilling crews and strengthening the
Oil and Gas Training Institute.
51.       OGDC's senior management is experienced and technically competent.
With the technical assistance to be provided by CIDA, OGDC has the capability
to implement the project successfully. The experience thus gained should
prepare the organization for a more active role in the country's quest for
increased domestic oil production.
Implementation
52.       CIDA, as a part of its assistance program to the oil and gas sector,
has engaged Petro-Canada to provide OGDC with technical assistance for the
various phases of its operations, including the Toot Project. Accordingly,
Petro-Canada will assist OGDC in establishing a project management team to
implement the Toot Project. This group will be headed by a Project Manager
and its staff will be recruited largely from the OGDC organization. Petro-
Canada will identify and provide the foreign technical experts to be seconded
to the management unit.
53.       The Toot drilling program would be executed with experienced foreign
drilling crews and with the technical assistance of a deep-drilling expert.
Well services such as logging, perforations, mud and cement engineering, sti-
mulation and testing would be contracted to international firms specializing
in these services. Design and engineering of the surface facilities and tech-
nical assistance on producing methods would be provided by Petro-Canada. The
training program would be under the direction of a full-time training director
who, like other consultants engaged under the project, would be appointed on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Conclusion of these
arrangements for consultant services and experts is a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01 of the draft Credit Agreement).
54.       The project is scheduled to be completed in mid-1981 except for
the training program which would extend to the end of that year.
Project Cost and Financing
55.       The project cost, including contingencies (US$15.1 million), is
estimated at US$73 million, of which US$55 million or 75% represents foreign
exchange expenditures. Taxes and duties would account for about US$1.6 mil-
lion of the total.
56.       Both CIDA and ODM would participate in financing the project.  CIDA
expects to allocate about US$57 million to finance activities in Pakistan's
petroleum sector over the next four years, of which approximately US$8 million



- 16 -
equivalent would be available as a credit to finance goods and services re-
quired for the Toot Project. ODM would contribute up to US$12 million equiv-
alent to the Toot Project as a grant. Approximately US$5 million equivalent
of the foreign exchange cost of the project represents depreciation of OGDC's
drilling rigs which would be used in the project. This and all local costs
would be financed through OGDC's retained earnings and equity contributions
in the form of annual budget allocations to OGDC. A financing package cover-
ing the total cost of the project has been finalized and is summarized in the
Credit and Project Summary.
57.       The IDA and ODM funds would be made available to GOP and onlent to
OGDC at an interest rate of 10% per annum, which is comparable to that charged
by local financing institutions for long-term, foreign-currency loans. The
Government would bear the exchange risk. The CIDA funds would be onlent at
8.75% per annum. OGDC would repay these loans from production revenues over
a period of 15 years. Since 1975 wholesale prices in Pakistan have risen an
average of 8% per year; the inflation rate during the next three years is
projected to be around 11% per annum.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       The goods and services financed under the proposed credit would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. All contracts would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding except that contracts for
equipment or materials estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000
and not exceeding in the aggregate US$3 million may be procured without inter-
national bidding under procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA. With prior
Bank approval, bids for contracts amounting to about US$5 million for well
services known to be performed by only a limited number of international firms
would be obtained through international shopping procedures. Qualified local
suppliers participating in international competitive bidding would be accorded
a preference of 15% or the prevailing import duty, whichever is lower.
59.       Proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of the cost
of consultants and of foreign expenditures for training and studies; 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of expatriate drilling crews and of imported equip-
ment, materials and other services; 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured equipment and materials procured under ICB; and 70% of the cost
of other locally procured equipment and materials. The specific items against
which the credit would be disbursed have been determined in consultation with
the co-financiers. US$2 million would be retained in the unallocated category.
The draft Credit Agreement provides for retroactive financing of up to US$2.5
million for the services of expatriate drilling crews, engaged under ICB in
accordance with Bank Guidelines, which have been working on Toot Well No. 9
since early this year and on Well No. 10 since June. While these are expected
to be production wells, they will also provide important additional data re-
garding the Toot structure which will be useful in formulating the drilling
program of the next few years.



- 17 -
Financial Aspects of the Toot Project
60.       OGDC's financial position over the short-term will depend on the
return it earns from the! Toot Project. GOP has agreed to ensure that OGDC
will earn a net of taxes (discounted cash flow) real rate of return on its
investment in the project of not less than 10% (Section 3.02 of the draft
Credit Agreement).
61.       The well-head price equivalent for Toot Project crude required to
achieve this 10% return could range (in 1977 prices) from US$4.90 to US$10.30
per barrel, depending on the proportion of future recovery of the oil in place
and capital expenditure costs. Given present estimates of drilling costs,
reserves at Toot and recovery rates, a per-barrel price of approximately
US$7.80 equivalent shouLd yield a 10% return to OGDC. In the event that the
project proceeds as expected, such a price would make it possible for OGDC to
recover from the proceeds of its sales of Toot oil and gas the totality of the
equity invested in the Toot field for both exploration and development since
its inception; to pay a 12.5% royalty on the well-head value of its produc-
tion; to maintain adequate debt service coverage of its borrowings for the
project; and to. realize, over the field's productive lifetime, an operating
profit of about US$55 million, sufficient to help finance a small share of
OGDC's other operations.
62.        The Government has recently negotiated with Attock Oil Company a
revised price of about US$4.50 equivalent per barrel for "old" oil 1/ from
the Meyal and associated fields. If, as expected, the well-head price of Toot
crude is also set at this level, a supplementary Government payment to OGDC,
amounting initially to about US$3.30 per barrel, will be required to achieve
the agreed 10% rate of return. The Government has agreed to make such supple-
mentary payments to OGDC as may be required to achieve this objective (Section
3.02 of the draft Credit Agreement).
OGDC's Future Financial Prospects
63.        Because of the small size of its reserves, the development of the
Toot field cannot be expected to generate sufficient funds to provide signi-
ficant support for an expanded program of exploration and development of the
type envisaged by OGDC for the period extending through FY83 covered by the
Government's Fifth Plan. The magnitude and characteristics of OGDC's future
financial requirements will depend on the success of its exploration program
and on the profitability of its other oil and gas development ventures.
64.       Assuming that: it will be possible to exploit Dhodak, or a similarly
productive field, OGDC's crude oil production could rise from 1.5 million
barrels in FY79 to 9.5 million barrels in FY83, while annual gas productic.
might increase from 4.6 billion to nearly 80 billion cubic feet. On that
basis net profit from operations would become positive in FY81 and, by the
1/   That is, oil from fields (such as Meyal and Toot) that were in produc-
tion before the sharp increase in oil prices beginning in 1973.



- 18 -
following year, OGDC should show an overall profit of US$28 million. The
projected results indicate that OGDC's overall financial position for the
six-year period FY77-FY83 would be satisfactory. In the initial three-year
period, before any newly discovered field could be put into production, the
rate of return on average invested capital would be negative, reflecting the
comparatively small production from Toot. However, after FY78, the debt/equity
ratio would be well within accepted industry standards, and debt service
coverage would remain adequate.
65.       On the basis of the above assumptions, OGDC could be well on its way
to becoming a self-sufficient and profitable national petroleum company by the
early 1980s. Adequate payments for Toot oil would ensure that OGDC's finan-
cial position will be sound in the intervening years.
66.       Because of the likely returns on investment in the oil and gas
sector and the Association's concern that the pace of development of such
potential in Pakistan be as rapid as possible, and in order to assist OGDC
to monitor adequately its operations and financial performance and help to
ensure its financial viability as a petroleum company, the Credit and Project
Agreements include covenants which provide that:
(i) OGDC would revise its accounting practices in accordance
with industry standards and maintain separate accounts for
each of its fields (Section 4.01 of the draft Project
Agreement);
(ii) OGDC would submit to the Association each year, starting
January 1, 1980, a report presenting a financial evalua-
tion of the Toot Project and an analysis of the financial
position and prospects of OGDC as a whole (Section 4.03
of the draft Project Agreement);
(iii) OGDC shall prepare and furnish to the Association, before
it undertakes any maior development in the oil and gas
sector, an economic and financial analysis of the
proposed project (Section 4.04 of the draft Project
Agreement); and
(iv) GOP shall consult with the Association on the scope and
adequacy of its petroleum sector investment programs and
make available the funds and facilities required to carry
out such programs (Section 3.04 of the draft Credit Agree-
ment).
Project Benefits and Risks
67.       The principal benefit derived from the development of the Toot
field is the production of crude oils at a lower unit cost than the equiva-
lent import cost. Production from the Toot field will consist of crude oil
and a minor amount of associated gas. The total incremental oil recovered
during the 15-year life of the field would be 13.7 million barrels (i.e.



- 19 -
US$200 million equivalent in 1977 crude oil prices). The economic rate of
return on the incremental investment required to develop the Toot field is
56%. In this calculation past investments in exploration are considered as
"sunk" costs and are therefore not included in the rate of return calculation.
The return calculation is based on a crude oil price of US$15.25 per barrel
which is derived from the US$13,00 CIF cost of imported crude plus a US$2.25
transportation charge from Karachi to the Rawalpindi refinery. Natural gas
revenues are relatively minor, and no credit has been taken for them or for
possible future liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) extraction. A sensitivity
analysis indicates that, under optimum conditions of reservoir productivity
and capital expenditures, the economic rate of return could go as high as
100%. Conversely, a lower oil recovery factor and an overrun in capital
expenditures on the projetct could reduce the return to 37%. Thus, even under
quite adverse conditions the rate of return remains satisfactory. In addition,
the project should contribute in a significant way towards the development of
OGDC as an institution thkrough strengthening its technical, financial, train-
ing and managerial capabilities. The project also aims to improve the basis
for Government decision-miaking on issues affecting the development of the
petroleum sector. These benefits are difficult to quantify but should become
manifest in a better allocation of public resources applied to oil/gas explora-
tion and development; a more attractive investment climate for foreign capital;
and a domestic price structure which will lead to better balance between the
supply and demand for particular petroleum products.
68.       Reservoir behavior can never be fully predicted.  There is always
a slight chance that the field will not produce the predicted oil volumes.
However, the most conservative reserve estimates have been used, and two in-
dependent reservoir evaluations confirm that there should at least be suffi-
cient recoverable oil for the project. This risk is, therefore, considered
to be minimal.
69.       The Toot Project carries the risks normally associated with an oil
development project. Human errors, equipment or material failures and un-
expected geological formation behavior occasionally result in blowouts and
fires. OGDC has a good safety record thus far and the modern drilling equip-
ment and expatriate technical assistance provided under the project should
minimize these risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between OGDC and
the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness
(Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement) include conclusion
of arrangements (a) by CIDA for providing consultants to OGDC (paragraph 53);
and (b) by GOP/OGDC for the refining of crude oil from Toot (paragraph 29).



- 20 -
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 6, 1978



- 21 -                                               ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAI INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PAKISTAN                                                  /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 104.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            803.9                                                     SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     244.5                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    60.0       120.0      190.0            167.4       182.9       432.3
ENPRGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       61.0         98.0     183.0             65.7        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         45.3         59.8      73.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5          24.8       26.5             12.8       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        56.0         74.0      91.0              85.2       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    198.0         246.0     300.0            322.6       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.8         43.4      46.5             44.0        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          51.8         52.7      50.5             52.9        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.6          3.9        3.0              2.9        2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.3          2.9        3.0              2.2        2.4          2.7
URBAN                               5.0          4.0        3.9              4.2        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       49.2        47.6       47.4             45.1       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       26.3        20.1       16.5             17.3       19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2         3.7        3.6              3.2        2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSAIDS)         ..      1908.1    2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..             13.7       14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              81.0        100.0      96.6 Lf           95.6       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    84.0         94.0      93.0             91.1        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           48.5         59.4       54.0             49.6       50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        16.0 /Ah   14.0         14.3             12.6       13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..        17.4         ..               ..          ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.1          47.4       49.8             43.1       45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            142.0 /RLi  124.3      113.0             99.5      102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         21.0       25.0             30.0       26.4         31.1
URBAN                                ..         77.0       75.0             66.3       63.5         68.5
RURAL                                ..          4.0        5.0             17.2       14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         3.0        6.0             15.7       16.1         37.5
URBAN                                ..         12.0       21.0            66.9        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             2.5         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           7450.0 /1   4310.0 /j  3910.0 /t        8830.8    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    14860.0        8440.0 /1 7180.0 /I        8479.3      6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2070.0       1870.0    1870.0           1624.5      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                             370.0        500.0     560.0               ..       183.3        278.4
RURAL                           22850.0      12390.0   12360.0               ..      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..              ..        19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4          5.3         ..              ..         5.2
URBAN                               5.6          5.5         ..              ..         4.8
RURAL                               5.4          5.2         ..              ..         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PIER ROOM
TOTAL                               3.1           ..         ..
URBAN                               3.1           ..         ..              ..         1.8          2.3
RURAL                               3.1           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..        25.9        28.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..         8.7        10.3



- 22-                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PAKISTAN                                                 /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  b     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY;     TOTAL                  30.0        44.0       51.0             59.1        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                13.0         24.0      31.0             38.4        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0        14.0       15.0             19.9        14.4         17.7
FEM4ALE                3.0          6.0       7.0              9.9         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  1.0           1.5        1.5              1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0        41.0       42.0             38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           24.0        20.0       19.0             23.5        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         16.0        20.0       21.0             35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0         3.0        3.0              2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0        14.0       15.0             14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.7        1.8               ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    7.0          ..        5.0              6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8             ..       3.0 /k             .         1.4          1.6
EM PLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13000.0       18100.0   20400.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.7         9.3        9.9             21.3        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              59.0         57.0       54.8             62.8        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.9        18.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5        28.7       27.9             35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  55.2        50.4       48.6             52.4        53.3         50.3
PEMALE                                 5.7         5.5        5.7             15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.6       1.7              1.3         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3 /1       17.8       17.3             18.6        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3 /1       41.8       41.5             42.8        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4 /1        8.0        8.4              7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5 /1       20.2       20.6             19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       65.0             80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                 *-           *-      83.0             67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..               ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..       48.0             39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
IRBAN                                 ..          ..       48.0             50.3        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 *-           ''      31.0             44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976),  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);   /f  1977;   /R  Includes Bangladesh;   /h  1960-62;   Ii  1962-65;   LI  Registered, not all
practising  in  the country;   /k  1972;   /1  1963-64.
September, 1978



- 23 -
DEItNTIONs oi  SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                ANNEX   I
Hcte   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator sad the most
populated country in each group.  Coveoage of coastries amang the indicators depends on availability of data and is noat sifo.-   Due to lack of data,
g-op -averages Eor Capitol Surplus Oil Emporters and itdicattro of accss tO water and ererat. disposal, housing, incooe distribution and poverty ate
simple populatpiooi eightrd geometric moans aitheut the excluaion of eatress values.
LAND ARIA  iphouand sq  ka)                                                           Ponulation pet hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surf-ace area comprising land area and inland waters.                      rban, and  uIral) divided by theif  r-sp-ctive nuaber of hospital beds
hgrlcultuoal - Most recent estimats of agricolturaL area used temporarily               svailable is public and private general and specialised hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market  nd kitchen gardens or to                 habilitatioc centers.  Hospitala are establishnests perpanently ntaffed hy
lie fallow,                                                                          at least one physician.   Establisbents providing prnscipsily cuntodial
care are not 1ocluded. Rural hospitalsa however, include health asd medi-
GNi  PER CAPITA _US) - GNP per tapita estisat-e  at current  acrket prices,              cal centers not perma.etly staffed by a physician (but by a Medical an-
calculated by sa"e conversion method as world Bgak Atlas (1975-77 basis);            siant.   nuee, midwife, etc.) which offer is-patient accomnodetion and
1960, 1970, asd 1977 data.                                                           provide a limited rasae of medical facilities
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admiasians to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUIMPTION PER CAPITA - Annu L consaePtion of comerrial -esrgy                  from hospitals divided by the number of bedo.
(coal and lignite  petroleum, maturs1 gas and byden-  . n e   ad geo-
thermal electricity) is kilogrta of coal equivelest per capita.                  HOUSlNG
Average aie  of household (parsons per household) - total. orban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STAIISTICS                                                          A household cossists of a group of individuals who share living quartern
Total pupularosn  mid-veer (siitlissel - Am of July 1; if not  vailable,               end their  ats meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of too end-year ectimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 date                         the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitiona of house-
-rban population (mtrcsot of total) - Rmtis of urban to total popsia-                  hold vary.
clan; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                Average sumber of  persons pet room - total  urban, and eural - Averaga num-
of data among countries.                                                             ber of perscns per room  in a11, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Populaios density                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclade no. -persatent structures and
Per as. kq  - Mid-year popalatin per squsre kilometer (100 hectares)                  unoccupied parts.
f total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of dwellinga) - total, urban. and rtoal -
Per sq. I.  agriculture lend - Computed as above for agricultural land                Conventibnal dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                of total, urnhu, and rural dwlliage respectively.
Population age structu_e (parcent) - Chlldras (0-L4 years) * workieg-age
(tV-hi years). ad rstir-d (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                  AdlWsted enrollment ratioe
Populatiou arowth rate  (percent) - totel   nd urban - Compoand anaual               Primary school - t-tal asd female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth ratee of total and urban mid-year pepulatinse tor 1950-60,                    at the primary levl as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, asd 1970-75.                                                                populations  srally include. childree  aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rats lser th.ueesd) - Annual live births per thoumand of                   diffstere   lngthb  of primuary  ducatinn; for countries wish usiversal edo-
mid-year populatiom; ten-year arithmetic evereges ending in 1960 and                 cation esrolme.it may emceed 100 percest since some pupils are bhlow or
1970 sad five-pae avsr'ag m disg  a 1975 far .eer rarest estimte.                    abve tho offirisi school ago.
Crude death rats (Per thausend) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                 Secondary school - total. and female - Computed as abhve; escandary educa-
year popalatiot; ten-year mrithmetic averagesa  nding in 1960 and 1970               tion reqsires at least four yeast  of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 foe mOet recent estiate.                        vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for popils
Grsso reproduction rate - Average nuober of daughters a mamas will bear                usually of 12 to 17 years of age; corresposdence courses are ge.era1ly
in her sor-al teproductive period if she exparlesces pra"est age-                     ecluded.
specific fertility rates; usIlly five-y**r averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of enondary) - Vocational inatitutions in-
1970  and 197.                                                                       clude technical, ind-strial, or osher programs whinh operate independently
n  mily plam9ina - accentor. emmual (thbssanda) - Annual saber of                      or as departents of secondary inatitutions.
acreptors of birth-control devices under aupices of national famhily              Poo-teacher rtio - sri-ar. and secondary - Total students enrtaled in
planing program,                                                                     primary end secondary levels divided by numbere of teachers in the corre-
Papily planing - usere (pmacent of married vwse_n  - Percentage of                     epondinga levels.
marrted womem at child-bearing age (15-44 years;) hI  use birtb-control           Adult literacV rate (percent) - Literate adults (able ta read and write) as
devicea to a11 married women in seie age group,                                      a percentage of total adult population aged I  years and over.
FOOD  AND NUTRITION                                                                 CONSIUMPTION
Index of fond  tor  uctio" osp r eit. i1970-lOO) - Index number of per              Passenger cars (per thousand nopulation) - Passanger oars comprise murce corn
capita annual productien so a1 food ee_ditia                                      eeatisg 1ess than eight persons; excludee ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of selomima (percent of rmqmirsmts) - Computed fr-n                vehicles.
energy equivalent of mat fend supplise avalable is country par n.pita             tadio receiver  (per thousand popslation) - All typem of recaivers for radio
per day.  Available sapplies rprise dnetmtic production  imparts lees              broed.amet  to general public per th.u.and of population; excludes unlicensed
esports  and changes in stock.  Net eupplies mclode ami1 teed, sends,              recoivers in coun--ie  and ia years when registratiao  of radio sets woe is
quantities used in food processing. end losaes is distribotie..  Re-               effect; dAts for recent years  apy not be comparable since most countries
quireete wore -   srtimted by FAO based am physiological needs for not-            abolished lirensing
mal activity and hsalth semaidering amvireismrntal tempereture. body              TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV' receivers for broadcast to ge.erd.
weights,  ge and sea distributigns of populstionm  and sli1ing 10 per-               public per thousand population; eacldes unlicensed TV receivers in cusn-
cest for waste as houehold level.                                                    triesnd in years  when registration of TV sets w s in effect.
Per capita supoly of Protein (gram  per day) - Protein content of ptr               Newepaper circulation (per thoumend population) - foSb  sthe eceruge circula-
capita not supply of food per day.  Nt supply of fond ie defined as                  tIes oi "daily general interest mewepaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above   Requireemnts for a11 sountrias established by  SDA provide for               cation devoted primarily to recording general nes.  It is considersd to
a minimum alleasa  af 60 gesms of sotel protein per day mnd 20 grame              bh  "daily" if it appears at Ibust four tiesa wa.e
of animal and pulae protein, of which 10 gres should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capita per Veer - based on the number of tickets
These standards see lower them those of 75 gesma of total protein and                sold during the year, including admiseions to drive-is cinsmas and mobile
23 grass of  nimal protein ae *n average for the aorld, proposed by                  units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita Protein surp1e from  sial and pulse - Proteis eupply of food            EMSPLOYMENT
derived from anial and pulses  s cre   per day.                                   Total labor farce (thousands) - Econcnically active persons, including armed
Child (agos 1-4) mortality ease (ier t=husand) - Annusl deaths per thous-               forcas and unemployed but excluding husenives,  students,  tc.  DOfii-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                           tione is various countries  ree not comparable.
Pemale isercent) - Female labor force as percentage of tot-l labor force.
HEALTH                                                                               A         rricultute (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (vears) - Average number of years of life                     as percentage of total labor force.
remaintng at birth; usually five-year averagesa  nding is 1960, 1970,             Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction,  anufcturitg and
sad 1975.                                                                            electricity, water and gas as percentago of total labor force.
Isfast mortality rats (per thousand) - Annul doaths of infasts  under               rerticinetion reta (percent) - total ,  ale, and female - Total, m1e, and
one year of ge per thousand live birhta.                                             reale labor force as perc-ntsgeo of their r_spective popuiltione.
Access to  afe water (esr.ent of .o..lotion) - rrarl, urbn. And rural -                 These sre nto's udjstrd partifipation races reflecting see-see
Nu-bee af people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                 structure of the poplatiom. sod lng tim  trend.
cafe water supply (includes treated surafs  wstere or untreated but               t      ionurc denendency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over ta
usconta-inated water such as that from protetted bor.holes, springs,                  the labor forte in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary walle) as percentages of their nepective populations.
In as urban area a public fountain or  t.adpoat lacated sat more                 INCor DISTRIgUTION
than 200 metere from a heuse may h  newidareg as befg within tao-                 Percentage of private hecre  (both in cash and kind) received by richest 0
actable access of that housa.   J rural area  rea..nable morass would                percent, richest 20 percent, poorent 20 parce.t, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the h-u-e-ifa or    bers of the household do not have tn                  of households.
spend a dispraportiomta part of the day is fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                     POVERTY TAIGET GROUPS
Acce.s to ecreta disposal (perient of populationl - total  urbas  asd                istimated abhotate poverty  income level (0$ per capital - urbam and rural -
rural - Number of peopla (total.  urba,   d rur-l) acnved byracrets                     Abmolute poverty Income level is that isnma level  oiltw abibch   miimal
disynsal as peecmntages of their reepective populations.    crets nutritionally adequate diet plus assee.til ono-food requirements is not
diposal may includ  the  ollertion and diapc.l, withb or withot                       affordeble.
treatent, of human asesraet ad  ste-water by water-borne systemr                   Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the usa  of pit privies and eimilir installations                                  Relative poverty iscome level is that income level 1e.s than one-third
Population per phy-icias - Popoultion divided by number of presticlng                   per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified fros a medical school at university level             .         ,lested population bel   poverty income level (cc t) -  rban and  sr1
Population pec oursing per.on - Population divided by number of                         Percent  popuetirs .o(  ban and ruraL) who are either "abolute poor" or
precticing manl  and female graduate nurses, preestoal nurses, and                    "relative poor" whichever is greater
anaistutsnorses.
Econaic sod Slaial Data Division
Eronomit Anslysis end Projections Iepartmert



-24.                                                                                ANth I
ECONOMIC D80V1L8)WT DiAT
(stunt. In ellltoto of U.S. Dollar.)
Actual                        S..Pojce                   1975         197)7-       197-          1983.
195  96          197            T3I         U               1977         1978         183           1988             1977        1978         1993
-    At 1977 PrIce. sod acoso-   ote,.                              A-esc  A_-ea GcnS  Rat..                                A. Decat of GUY8
N-ATIONAL CCOUNISI
Cross Domestic Prdodut                                               14,227      14.451      14, 709         11, 710     20, 729            1.7          6.8          5.7           4.4           100.0        100.2         99.9
Deofom em   f tru.do                                         -300        -24                            36         oo                           ..                            
i/coo, Onmescir Incoce                            ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~13,927  14.188  14, 709  15,674      20,740             2.9         6.6           5.9          4.4            105.0       100.0        100.0
lop-ro  intl. IfS                                                     2,430       2,599       2,933           3,405       3,489             9.         16.1           0.5          3.5             19.9         21.7        16.9
cuors  oo. NEE (top-rncspacleyol                                 1.192      1,439         1.405          1.956       2J299              9.2,       17.9          6.8           5.0              9,6        10.6         11.1
Oe--tcc-p                                                             1,239       1,160       1,529           1,749       1,199            11.1        14.5          -7.5           2.9            10.3         11.2          5.9
Cotomsprtmo Oupooditorra                          ~~~~~~~~~~13,046  13,033  13,497         14,400       19,235             17          67            4.9          4.2             91.9         91.9        97.9-
-  Eup-ditur.-  (i-c  stocks                                 1,929       2,647       7,740           3,055       3,693            19.2         115           3.8           3.I96                       195         1.
Imoott  StrIngs                                                       961      1,155        1,212          1,306        2,526            17.           7.6         13.9          5.4              9.2        12.1         12.1
usctonol SeotoOs                                     ~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~991  2,340  1,634  2.051  3,163        28.0        25.            9.             .51.1                      13          1.
fC4CtOSUOSE 00400                                                              AnulDcptCro t Fi-                                                 A-...sAmo   Grunt Oats.                              A. Psrost of TotlI
Copitnl  6ud                                                           21         723         994           1,076       1,660        -19.3           21.7           9.1         il.1             35.4         24.4        34.9
Iccrod aoiodo  (root. fu-Ls)                                   799        401          799             913       1,200             0.0         1.8           6.1         12.0             30.3        26.0         29.2
of obtot, toritlicere                             ~~~          ~~ ~        ~~      ~     ~~~97  56  63  142  35     -20.0        121.1        -24.0            -               3.4         4.5          0.7
331         357         411             496         652            12.8        19.2           4.7         10.2             15.5         15.5        12.9
oceooptton Coods                                   ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~~      ~      ~~~437  599  232  579  621  -25.5       63.4           9.          14.1              9.9         12.1        12.7
nOon loporteL'                                     ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~~      ~     ~~~~130  209  319  3 75  695'  55.5      1 7.6        12.6           9.0             12.1        12.5         14.4
oTo-l rc--adta-  lopor -        0..                                 2, 322      2,341       2,6u5           3,129       4, 762            0.0        19.3           6.7         05.7            100.0       100,0        150.5
"oIoto                                                                159          99          32             110         322           -43.0       266.7          30.9           6.9             2.6          9.2        10.
Cocoon Soon                                          0~ ~ ~~~~             ~~~~            ~~~ ~ ~~~~6 044  123  118  247  -19.6    -4.1         15.9         15.4             10.8          9.6         9.7
Cotton ninth                                       ~~~~         ~~~~        ~~~~           ~~~ ~~133  130  102  118  296  10.4       3.7         12.0          13.4             14.2        12.6         10.
RIot                                               ~~~~         ~~~~        ~~~~            ~~~~        ~~~      ~~233  250  210  230  596  3.6  -6.0  21.0     9.1             21.9        17.2         2'1.5
367        0L39         0076            712       0 391            21.0        23.6          14.3         16.2             10.5       5_3.2-        49.1
To out 'Iconhtoo 0,, Ccpoo tt /000/                ~~~~~978   1,060       1,141           1,330       2,032            15.7         17.2         16.2          14.1           120.         150.0       150.0
too,cf I c    dco                                            83.9         03.9       100. 0         106.0        151.7             9.2         6.0           7.4          6.9
Zpc   no    oo                                             171.         99.5       120.0           108.        10.9-.                         8.5          6.6           7.0
o6  cdo79.9                                                              84.3       100.5            977        1005             1.           23            06          -.
ouor   f Juluoc PMoo                                            101.4       121.3       100.0           113.9       104.             .27         1.              .             .
0440E 40D00 tO $00706R                                                    Amc1Dt      17   rcsod Oo,Eh-  R-te                                     A--aa Aocuo Or-h ittA. Dacn   f Tonal
Agriculture                                       ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~~~4,121  4.306  4, 446  4,795  5,999        3.          6.4           4.6          4.2             33.3         33.6        31.5
Mucmfocourcng                                      0,6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2:40  2,965  2,909     3,090       4,3133            1.          5.5           7.0          8.a             21.8         21.7        23.9
Oth- Sector                                                         5.604      2_92?4       5.985           6.377      _8.374             1.5         6.5           5.6          5.9             44.9         44.9        44.7
Local                                                             02,765       13,241      13,360          14,250      19,696             2.3         8.1           1.6          5.9            104.0       100.0        500.0
PUBLIC F1I0NtANCoaoE17   rcs s    ohto  as                                                                                                         ccaeAot Got  0c                                    As P.rrat o GD0 Y
Coroo  trorc                                                   2.059       2,221        2,2644               .                        4.9          ...                         .15.4
Corceot topcndinoro,                              ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~2.451  2_102  2.3()8       ..          .             2.9           ....                                     15.7
B  onr  Sooe-392                                                                -281          -44               ..          ,                            ...                                      0.3
0'blir Sttton  I-tao--                                            1,570        1,039       1,904               .           .            1.1            .             ..                         11.9
C000005 tEteEN52ITmE DITAILS                                                 Act-l D.to                   E-c            0ET671 OF PUBLIC SECTOR             At 0977 Prices aed 0044000 Rate7.oTta
(to S nocal nurnont liunocd iomro)    1905        1971         1977        0979              1N9'05158fl8T NOORAIf             1975V           1976NT          1977M                     197519.779 17 2
Edorottor                                         ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~~       ~~7.0  7.8  8.4  9.8  OucOo1 Ocos23 st56                                                               1.
uthoc Smotol bOnito,                              19~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~.7  12.0  8.0       7.4             Agctcultoti                        2356            3608             390                        273.
Atriemltore                                        5~~ ~ ~~~~             ~~~~       ~ ~~      ~      ~~.3  0.1  4.4  4.1  Mioady4   ittt  238             30 7             479                        22.0
in Er   o-oml  Se-io-                                           3.2          0.0         5.3         4.1 oD                                              190            260              257                        15.2
Dofrc                                                              0.          41.4        41.4        39.0               rcp       c.uiote                 2t7             280             344                        19.1
Ad.icistr- cn                                                       7.5         8.5         9.3          9.8             Ocher                               87              24               19                         2.7
Oith_4l                                                            20.6        23.0        24.9        26.9                                                 -  ,0        1,3              174                          0.
Tota  Corec  tops-di tur                                         100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0              T.    .-i-130                                   1591  5                                        0.
Public  Sotoc S-csgsi51           -83             102              291                         6.7
DInetoc B-rrsrtc                  376             376              672                        30.1
Fur-igo B-rcoet                 1.2097          1,061              791                        63.2
oTal. PFe-ioto                  1.320           1,539           1,754                        100.0
NOto:  001 y--c  g0-  in ohi. table  -afec to thc Pbticar fecol Year toIp  1 - Ju-  37.  The fioa  poor ..  is id-otfisd hy thc coleodac pea  to shich it etde.
1/ -isd-uat   - et tcoocl toPor-  -0 --otrd oy cbc Sctt.  arSk cod by cte Oco-i-ct-a   DInOeluc of the Sttist-y of Ficoote
/Consoli Tdte   Ocdt-l ocd Pru-oi-lSmeroe1
0/   Adj.otod for cctc.min ne              b Sd80-,  roo-fer- of -orploo  an. .d nelf.f-tioig by puoltoeotr
South Asa. Deporcct
Map 12, 1979



-25-                                                                        AbNBX
P97AFI07TA Da3Al4C01 O P8102 YFENTk! ARORIL 51TATSE AND 00bT
1973174    1974/75    1975176    1976/77            n                             /       19990       1    t09    1981/82                  1982183 vgnaol8r_ 3982/83
S91JARY bAIANCE OF PAYMRRTS-
Export  (tool. F5)                                1,202       1,25Z       1,433       1,404               1,679                1,997        2,317       2,675       3,044       3,489                15.7
loto  (itrt  hFS)                                  II829      2_551       2 533       2 877              3.516                 3.779       4.041        4.349       4.691       5.266                 8.4
toue  aioooeD k-9)                                 -627      -1,9        -Ti1g       -T;7!               -1,837                -1,792      -1,724      -1,674      -1,647      -1,776
tntert (ont)                                        -80         -93       -109         -141               -141                  -218         -244       -260         .277        -292                15.7
Direot Irr-atoart Ircono fret)                        9           4         -36         -28                 .68                   -66         -64         -62         -62         -58                  -
Workers- rnnltraoes (gross)                         138         213         335         578               1,020                 1,100       1,285       1,350       1,350       1,350                 5.8
Othtr Pottor Services (ret)                          12           7         -37         -12                  .2                    -3          -2          -3           -          -1
C--rcot Transfers (et)                                                                 ...  ...                                   ... 
lalorco  or Carront Accownt                         549                     947       1.05I2              1029                    969        .749         649         634         777                -5.5
Pr [vLe  ile-ct Irto--ert (not)                      ..           -          41          45                  50                    55          60          66          73          80                 6.2
OffEctLl Capital Grant, (ret)                        67         104         120         149                 100                   100         120         100         100         lO1
Pablit M6LT L.oan
Dib--t-e)-                                       446         918       1,047         649               1,099                   989       1,052       1,074       1,148       1,204
ry-t                                             .107         132        -144        -169               -259                  -344         -400        -424        -476        -398
Nrt Dlabors--euta                                   339         786         903         490                 841                   645         652         650         672          006
Other M'6LS Lu-a3e
Di-burs-  ot,.                                                            ...         ...                  i5 .  S0                          70          10          10          10
Repay- ot.                                        ...                                                     -6                     -3          -2          -           -
Net Oliburoooert.                                                                                            11                    27          28          28 28                    28
Capital Tarott.tio-e -.e.t,1                         40         371          49         180
Cha-go ir Net leservee (-ira.oa.e)                  103         -93        -166         198
Actual
59ANT AND LOAN COHHT71ENTS                                                                                                  OUT AND DEBT SIFAYICI                           1973/74             Act7  1         1976,77
Offical Grarca                                       3          39          24         164                  ,       -    PTblie C.bt Outs. & Di.burerd                    4,521       4,81        5,1755      6,264
Irterest or Public Debt4/                        81          93         109          141
Publir 9417 Lrate                                                                                                           Pryeto o  Publir DrbtT/                          106         135         144         119
6RRD                                               60          60          50          70                                 Total P ullEr D ehr S-ir                        167          228         253         310
IDA                                                53          82         108          94                                 Ot-or Debt S.riue (ret)
Other Hultilatorl                                  82          71         119          94                                 Trtal Debt Service (ret)                        197          229         2573        31
lrv_ -eetOA                                       977         172         679         443
Supplers.                                          13           9          42           -                                urde- or Eiport Eartia  ()2
Fi-acile  Irectrutio.e                             57          12          18           _                                 Pulir. Debt Serrlce                             13.8        15.4        14.3        15.6
B-rdo                                               -                       -                                             Tutal Debt Service
Pollic  oare n.eo.l.                                -        _            _                                               7_ aDS Eitreot InreTt. Inc.                       ..          ..          ..,
Tutel Public M0LT Luar-                        1,041          845       1,040         865                               Average T-ls  of Public Debt
A.ctual Debt Ottartnding  on - uJr  30. 1977                               lot. Ce .. Prior Tear D00D                       1.9         2.1         2.0         2.5
Dibareed OnlY             Perrelt                                    Anort. ae Y Prtor Yeat DrOD                      2.5         3.0          3.0         2.9
EXTEOhAL DEBT                                                                                                              16RD1 Dolt. Oe    Disb-red                          299         257         305         330
1BR9 ae. %Public Debt 049                          6.6         5.3         5.4         5.3
IBRD                                                        330                     5                                    IRD Debt Seritce                                  52.5        44.9        39.6        56.5
'DA9                                                                               I7                                    IBRE no % Public Debt Ser-ico                      28.1        19.7        15.5        16.2
Other Mntrilirct-l                                          162                     3
loveron1ete                                              4979                      79                                    IDA Debt Out. 4 De.bt  eed                          465         471         506         597
Doppliete                                                   105                     2                                    111 a7. %Publto Debt 04                            10 .3        9.6         6.          9.1
Pituara  Iti-tuor                                            92                     1                                    IDA Debt Cer'oi                                     4.2         5.7         5.7         5.0
Durds                                                         -                     -                                    EDA  Ce % Public Dolt Setr-c-                       0.2         2.5         2.2         1.9
Public Debta n.e.t.
Totol Public M9LT Debt                                    6,264                  1t0
Other M60T Debt.
Shbot-te.- Debt (dieb.  nl)
.  Nut aroilallo.                                                                      e  St ff eecl, tei
Pot a_ailalle.                                                                         -  5i1 or  eneli9ibl.
P.t avoilabll  separately but iocludrd it  total.                                     --  Lee. Elan hbld the  -sa11-ee  .nit ahlry.
T fle  figuree far 1977/78 inoludo tipoted dlabur.enorta to  ocuor-t of debt reltef a1ready a gred  tlh the P6iata  Aid Cor i
2/  Inclndtrg  errore Drd o3seleeone. r*rewtteasa sr I
3/  IncludiNg .oesitemecs rude far debt rlhef. only thbe  xlereyed thtcngh refia-niog credit.
4/ Net of dobt reliof.
5/  Bardrt to e-r-iote  fern eopPrts iocludig hYS and rockers' reelttta-cs.
Sguth A.ia DepartI.t
ta  12, 397B



- 26 -
ANNEX IT
STATUS OF BANK GROUtP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of October 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million
Credit                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower    Purpose                Bank      TW     IDA    Undisbursed
Seventy-one loans and                               572.0           478.3
credits fully disbursed /-
621       1969    Pakistan    Railways               14.5             --             1.1
206       1970    Pakistan    Engineering
Education          --               4.0           0.6
213       1970    Pakistan    Power Distri-
bution             --              23.0           0.7
422       1973    Pakistan    Karachi Port IIT    --                 18.0            2.6
961       1974    Pakistan    Industrial In-
vestment          25.0              --            3.2
492       1974    Pakistan    Karachi Port IV         --             16.0            8.5
510       1974    Pakistan    TelecoTmnunica-
tions III          --              36.0           3.9
1107      1975    SNGPL         Gas Pipeline IV    60.0               --           11.4
546       1975    Pakistan    Industrial Devel-
opment (NDFC)      --              30.0           5.3
1208      1976    Pakistan    Power Transmission  --    50.0          --           41.1
620       1976    Pakistan    Seed                    --             23.0          22.1
1326      1976    PICIC         Industrial Devel-
opment            25.0              --           13.1
630       1976    Pakistan    Lahore Water II         --             26.6          20.6
648       1976    Pakistan    Irrigation &
Drainage           --              14.0          12.9
1366      1977    Pakistan    Livestock               --    10.0      --           10.0
1372/
648      1977    Pakistan    Railways               35.0            25.0          55.7
678       1977    Pakistan    Education               --             15.0          14.7
683       1977    Pakistan    Flood Rehabilita-
tion               --             40.0           10.7
751       1977    Pakistan    Hill Farming            --              3.0           3.0
754       1978    Pakistan    SCARP-VI_b              --            (70.0)        (70.0)
755       1978    Pakistan    Hazara Forestry         --              1.7            1.7
771       1978    Pakistan    Tarbela II                             35.0          33.0
813       1978    Pakistan    Punjab Extension                       12.5          12.5
846       1978    Pakistan    Fauji
Fertilizer!b                      (55.0)        (55.0)
TOTAL                                             731.5   60.0   801.1
of which has been repaid                          344.1    -0-    16.6
TOTAL now outstanding                             387.4   60.0   784.5
Amount sold                         23.3
of which has been repaid            22.3            1.0    --       --
Total now held by Bank
and IDA/C                                       386.4   60.0   784.5
Total undisbursed                                  63.8   51.1   173.5          288.4
/a Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b Not yet effective and not included in totals.
|c Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor                 Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1958      Steel Corp. of Pak.
Ltd.                    Rolled Steel Products       0.63     -         0.63
1959      Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                    Textiles                    0.75     -         0.75
1962-     Gharibwal Cement        Cement
1965      Industries Ltd.                                     5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-
1969-                             Development
1975      PICIC                   Financing                    -       0.52      0.52
1965      Crescent Jute
Products                Textiles                    1.84    0.11       1.95
1965      Packages Ltd.           Paper Products              2.31    0.84       3.15
1967-     Pakistan Paper
1976      Corp. Ltd.              Paper                       5.38    2.02       7.40
1969      Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.         Fertilizers                  1.00    2.92       3.92
1969      Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.              Pulp and Paper              5.60    0.63       6.23
Total Gross Commitments                            22.76    7.46      30.22
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                       18.25    1.01      19.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                   4.51    6.45      10.96
Undisbursed



- 28 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771        Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the construction of
the closure section of the dam -- to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the main
embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment began
on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encountered in
the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels necessitated
the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and outlet structure.
Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin and Tarbela Develop-
ment Furds whereby special contributions were made by a number of parties,
including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of repairs and additional
remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further damage in August 1975
and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been repaired and operated
satisfactorily during the 1977/78 irrigation season. Serious erosion in the
plunge pool below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional
protection works. A first phase of these was successfully completed during
the 1977/78 construction season. From 1975 through mid-1978, irrigation
requirements have generally been met. Power generation by the first four
units began in 1977.
Loan No. 621          Ninth Railway:  US$14.5 Million Loan of June 26, 1969;
Effective Date: August 28, 1969; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
Loan No. 1372         Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684        Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Ninth Railway Project is nearly complete; disbursements amount
to about US$13.5 million. The main outstanding item is construction of the
first stage of a new marshalling yard at Pipri, near Karachi. The location
and design of this yard were changed twice following protracted investigations
and negotiations between various agencies and planning authorities with a view
to reconciling urban planning and railway marshalling objectives. The Tenth
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Railway Project became effective on May 9, 1977, and is proceeding satisfac-
torily. PR's 1976/77 traffic level and financial results were adversely
affected by the severe flooding in August 1976, a sharp drop in wheat impc-rts
and political unrest in the first half of 1977.  Revised estimates stAc
improved financial performance for 1977/78 as a result of a 20% incrCas_ nV
passenger fares and a 12.5% increase in freight rates effective July 1, 1977
and efforts to hold downi working expenses. PR's performance of covenants is
generally satisfactory.
Credit No. 206       Engineering Education:  US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970; Effective Date:  July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides US$4.0 million to finance the relocation of
the NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi (formerly NED
Engineering College) and technical assistance for the upgrading of Universiftv
staff. Most of the new physical facilities are now in use. An extension of
the Closing Date until December 1978 has been agreed to allow for execution
of technical assistance and other qualitative improvement programs.
Credit No. 213       Powrer Transmission and Distribution:  US$23.0 Milll,i&c
Credit of August 13, 1970; Effective Date: December 11,
1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Physical construction of the grid substation and associated equip--
ment of this Project is underway and can now be considered to be 70 percent
complete.  Physical completion of the project is expected by the end of 1978.
To enable retention payments and final payments for equipment deliverie  to
be made, a further postponement of the Closing Date by six months to
December 1978 has been approved.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
19,74; Effective Date:  September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Construction work on the Juna Bunder Berths is currently abo(ur
15 months behind schedule.  Quay piling was substantially completed in June
1978 and shed construction is now scheduled for completion by September 1979.
The initial and subsequent delays in construction of the Napier ir> e K'"
will mean that completion is likely to be delayed until late 
18 months behind schedule. About US$15.4 million (86%) of Credlt 42Z toas
been disbursed.  Construction of the oil berth commenced in JTanuartv



- 30 -
ANNEX II
some 27 months behind the program prepared at the time of appraisal, and has
now been substantially completed. Bids from prequalified contractors for
channel dredging works and dredger procurement have been evaluated and formal
recommendations are awaited. Disbursements total about US$7.5 million (47%)
from Credit 492. Although agreements relating to the improvement of manage-
ment and finances have not been complied with satisfactorily, a number of
actions in line with those proposed by the Association have recently been
initiated by KPT which address these problems. Cargo handling and other
mechanical equipment has been contracted out for urgent repairs and new
equipment is being obtained. Steps are being taken to modify the priority
system of ship berthing to promote improved berth utilization.
Loan No. 961         Industrial Investment:  US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Loan was made to the Government and is administered by PICIC.
It has been fully committed and disbursements amounted to $21.8 million on
October 31, 1978. The Closing Date has been extended by one year to June 30,
1979, to accommodate three subprojects.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of October 31, 1978, subprojects for US$21.4 million had been
approved by the Bank and disbursements amounted to US$11.9 million. PICIC
remains a capable institution, but its operations and collections have been
adversely affected by general economic and political difficulties. Its pros-
pects will depend largely on developments in the textile sector, which
account for a large portion of its portfolio.
Loan No. 988         Multan Fertilizer:  US$35.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1974; Effective Date: July 30, 1974; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Delays and escalating prices for civil works and, to a lesser extent,
for foreign equipment have raised the total project cost above the appraisal
estimate by about 102% (US$109 million).  Construction delays have been due to
a shortage of civil contractors' capacity in Pakistan and to late deliveries
of critical equipment. Ammonia production started in September 1978 and
guarantee tests of the ammonia plant were satisfactorily completed in November
1978. It is expected that the plant will be fully operational in early 1979,
about two years later than the appraisal estimate. The project's economic
return is still close to 28%, because of higher forecast international fertil-
izer prices. The company has obtained the extra financing required, in equity
from the Government and the foreign partner, and in debt from the OPEC Special
Fund and commercial banks. The project's corporate and field management has
been strengthened.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 510        Third Telecommunications:  US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project covered by this Credit is proceeding reasonably satis-
factorily, but is now about 12 months behind schedule. Procurement action for
all the main equipment items has been substantially completed, installation
of plant and equipment is making good progress, and about 70% of the additional
subscribers' lines are in service. As part of the project, T&T was to have
been reorganized so as to function more effectively along commercial lines and
to have been given a greater degree of autonomy. This reorganization, important
to improving the efficiency of operation of the sector, has been delayed, but
proposals which appear satisfactory are awaiting final Government approval.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The Credit has been fully committed and US$24.7 million had been
disbursed as of October 31, 1978. We anticipate that the Credit will be fully
disbursed by next March. Although NDFC is currently a profitable institution
there are several aspectis of its operation which are of concern. The orienta-
tion of NDFC's activities has been toward commercial banking; its development
impact would be improved if it were to redirect its efforts toward analyzing
and helping to resolve sector problems in the public industrial sector; and
its rapid expansion has placed considerable strain upon its limited manpower
resources and newly estalblished systems. While further growth is projected
over the next few years, staffing and systems development may prove limiting
factors.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Project activities are generally on schedule. A recent re-estimate
of final project costs (including the additional pipelines and distribution
systems authorized by the Bank) indicates savings in foreign exchange expendi-
tures of about US$7.3 million. The Borrower has applied to the Bank for
permission to apply these savings towards equipment and facilities needed for
handling additional gas supplies from the Potwar basin as well as toward
several other items that are required.
Credit No. 620        Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Civil works and equipment contracts have been awarded for the three
processing plants for the Punjab Seed Corporation (PSC). The first processed
seed from the project will be available early in 1980. Bids for a similar



- 32 -
ANNEX II
plant in Sind are under evaluation and an award is expected in January/February
1979. Development of the Corporaticns' seed farms is proceeding; PSC has now
started - and Sind Seed Corporation will start next year - their registered
growers' schemes. Pilot projects for vegetables and potatoes in Baluchistan
and NWFP and for potatoes in Punjab have started. Progress of the Seed Certi-
fication Agency and the National Seed Registration Agency has been slower; GOP
is still in the process of nominating the Directors of these agencies.
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage:
US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The detailed design of the project is now nearing completion but
this has been delayed and consequently construction is about one year behind
schedule. UNDP is financing engineering consultants who are advising and
assisting WASA staff and local consultants to carry out the engineering work.
Experts provided by UK are assisting with engineering management, leak detec-
tion and training.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Physical construction of the 336-mile transmission line between
Faisalabad (formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and associated equipment will start
during 1978, with completion scheduled for December 1980. Virtually all
bidding documents for equipment and materials have been issued with awards
having been made on the major items.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is about ten months behind schedule due to delays
of about six months in appointing consultants and of a further four months
as a result of political disturbances in 1977. Tenders for the supply of a
major part of the construction equipment were invited in May 1978, bid open-
ings took place in September and are still being evaluated. The Water and
Power Development Authority is completing construction of housing and offices
for the construction colony and is preparing to start construction early in
1979. Agricultural extension activity has begun and program staff are being
mobilized. A project implementation plan has been prepared and is currently
being reviewed by the Bank's consultant. Aerial surveys have been completed
and arrangements have been made to carry out field work for the Landsat
Imagery component in April 1979. The National Bank of Pakistan plans to
provide credit to farmers for leveling beginning early in 1979.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project, which became effective in July 1977, provides facilities
for: (a) primary teacher training and experiment on adult functional liter-
acy program and related studies; and (b) agricultural education to assist in
developing higher and middle level agricultural manpower, farmer training and
related studies. Project implementation is about five months behind schedule
because of: (a) earlier delays by the Government in confirming the appointment
of consultant architects in the Province of Sind; (b) delays in contracting
technical assistance for the project; and (c) disputes over ownership of
project sites. The Government is addressing these problems and the project is
making reasonable progress.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation has been slower than expected with delays
being experienced in the appointment of consultants and the formation of
Village Livestock Associations (VLA's). The Managing Director of the Punjab
Livestock Board (the major project implementing agency) has been replaced
and Government has given assurances that project implementation will be
speeded up. Milk collection from the first VLA's commenced in August and
it is expected that consultants will be in place by January 1979.
Credit No. 683       Flood Damage Restoration:  US$40 Million Credit of
March 8, 1977; Effective Date: April 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
It is expected that the December 31, 1978, Closing Date for this
Credit will be met and the entire US$40 million utilized. All of the civil
works restoration work for the project has been completed and orders placed
for the equipment, materials and assemblies. The studies have been completed
on the Civil Works Contracting Industry and Operation and Maintenance of Flood
Protection and Drainage Facilities. The final draft of Phase I of the National
Flood Plan will be completed by December 31, 1978, as scheduled.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming:  US$3.0 Million Credit of December 1,
1977; Effective Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
This project is proceeding satisfactorily.  The aerial surveyr is
being carried out now and should be completed by the end of the year. Demon-
stration farms have been established and the pilot vegetable and apple schem2s
and the forestry activities have commenced.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 775       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This Credit became effective on July 14, 1978. Short-lists of
consultants for the feasibility study, and for forestry and inventory spe-
cialists have been prepared. There has been good progress in land acquisition,
building construction and local staff appointments.
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55.0 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This Credit is not yet effective.



35 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1
PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:
June - October 1977.
(b) Agency which has prepared project:
Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC).
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and
of first Bank mission to consider project:
First presented:    June 1977.
Appraisal mission: July 1977.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
July 8, 1977.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
September 13, 1978.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
March 31, 1979.
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) OGDC would appoint a full-time training director and
employ consultants to carry out various reservoir,
seismic, geophysical and feasibility studies
(paragraphs 52-53).



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) OGDC would revise its accounting practices and
maintain separate accounts for each field
(paragraph 66).
(c) OGDC would furnish to the Association an economic
and financial analysis of any major oil and gas
projects it proposes to undertake during the imple-
mentation of the project (paragraph 66).
(d)  GOP would undertake a study of petroleum pricing and
policy issues in accordance with terms of reference
agreed with the Association (paragraph 35).
(e)  GOP would supplement OGDC's revenues from the sale
of crude oil and gas by making such payments to the
Corporation as may be necessary to ensure that OGDC,
under conditions of efficient operation, would earn
a real DCF rate of return of not less than 10%
(paragraph 62).
(f) GOP would consult with the Association regarding
its investment programs and major projects in the
oil and gas sectors and make available the resources
required for carrying out such program (paragraphs
33 and 66).
(g) GOP would endeavor to adjust petroleum product prices
so that over any period of three consecutive years net
receipts from the development surcharge would be positive
(paragraph 37).
(h) The following are additional conditions of effectiveness:
(i) CIDA has arranged to provide consultants to OGDC (para-
graph 53) and (ii) arrangements have been made for refining
OGDC's crude oil from Toot (paragraph 29).



IBRD 13158R1
62                                  6'6                                 701                                  714      DECEMBER 1978
U.   S.   S.   R 
PAKISTAN                                                                                                    '   zCHINA
THE PETROLEUM  SECTOR                                                                        \                            J"- t\
-      NATURAL GAS PIPELINES                             ,                                                 JAMMLU
NATURAL GAS PIPELINES UNDER CONSTRUCTION                               .  (                           AND            36 -
6    NATURAL GAS FIELDS                                                                            I   KASHMIR
i    OIL FIELDS
1   REFINERIES                                                                      I-
ROADS
,  RAILWAYS
~ RIVERS
- . -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                     Hia  l
d Khe      u1rt       iolkot-I
32'                                                                                                          'wolo
S                   %                                           tJ                  thowsinuga~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ro   22
DH )D,4Ki (i  obad                                ho /, 
tto               ROD;~~509o 9                       Montgomer
No>< . si  -\   g<   g   TRahmlefar Khun d
2 B~~~~~  1                  / ~~~~~~\MAZ,~(?A/I/                                                                                 2
C        100       200        300       400
_,                                                   0               II)o 100        200              300
~,~   Hyderabad              .       a
Karachi ~ ~    IVI  - --  - -f         ,, -     . g
-240                                                                                                             U   4_.  us.  s.  R. ,C  NA
24~~~                                                                          340   \~~~~~   ~     ~        ~~~-4   CHINAj 4'
A  ra b  i a  n          Se  a                                                                      P A K I S T A N
<    . -     N D I A
A\onbian  Soo
620                                      660                                       70.



