Document of              Ir     q I
The World Bank 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1889b-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 22, 1978
Energy, Water and Telecommunications Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs 1.0              =   US$0.101
Rs 9.9               =   US$1.00
Rs 1,000,000        =   US$101,000
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WJEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Metric Ton (mt)                       =   1,000 Kilograms (kg)
1 Metric Ton (mt)                       =   2,204 Pounds (lb)
1 Kilometer                                  0 0.62 Miles
I Ton of oil equivalent (Toe)           =   10 million Kilocalories
I Barrel of oil  -BB=   0.15899 Cubic Meter
1 Cubic Meter (mi)                      =   6.289 Barrels
I Cubic foot (CF)                       =   0.02832 Cubic Meter
MCFD                                    =   Thousand Cubic feet per day
IICF                                    =   Million Cubic Feet
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
GOP                     -   Government of Pakistan
OGDC                    -   Oil and Gas Development Corporation
OGTI                    -   Oil and Gas Training Institute
PCP                     -   Petroleum Commission of Pakistan
ERC                     -   Energy Resources Cell
LPG                     -   Liquefied Petroleum Gas
POL                     -   Pakistan Oilfields Limited
PPL                     -   Pakistan Petroleum Limited
AOC                     -   Attock Oil Company
CIDA                    -   Canadian International Development Agency
ODM                     -   Overseas Development Ministry



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL AND GAS DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   ENERGY SECTOR .............................................          1
Background ..     ...........................                  I1
Historical Growth Patterns .....       .....................   1
Pakistan's Energy Resources ...         ......................  2
Future Energy Requirements .....      .....................    4
Energy Policies .....................................          4
II.   THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR ......       ........................ ...     6
Background .................  6
Organization and Structure .................. ........         7
Investment   ..........................                       8
Development Prospects ......      .........................    10
Pricing .      ............................................    11
The Role of the Bank ......      ..........................    16
III.   THE BENEFICIARY ......................                             17
OGDC's Corporate Existence           . . .17
Operations         ............          .18
Personnel    ...18
Budgeting and Accounting           . . .18
Management Capabilities           . . .19
Audit   ...20
a                        Insurance                       ... 20
This report was prepared by Messrs. H. G. Schober, E. D. McCarthy, and
Miss I. Zurayk, Energy, Water and Telecommunications Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
IV.   THE PROJECT .................................                             ..............    21
Background   ..21
Description of the Project   .                 .21
Implementation of the Project ..23
Project Cost   ..23
Project Financing Plan    .                  .24
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit                      25
Procurement   . .25
Refinery Expansion    ..26
Project Risks   ..26
Ecology and Safety    ..26
Schedule and Reporting  . .27
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS .27
Past Financial Performance and Present Position                    27
Financial Analysis of the Toot Project .30
OGDC's Future Financial Prospects  .. .35
OGDC's Financing Plan .36
OGDC's Projected Financial Position .37
Recommendations  . .39
VI.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS           ............................    40
Justification of Toot Development .40
Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis .40
VII. RECONIENDATIONS .41
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.01 (A)  Natural Gas Reserves
1.02 (B)  Oil Reserves
2.01       Pricing of Petroleum Products
3.01       Accounting and Management Information
4.01       Summary of Project Costs
4.02       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.03       Allocation of Loans
4.04       Project Schedule
5.01       Graph-Crude Oil Prices vs. Rate of Return
5.02       Financial Projections for Toot
5.03       Financial Projections for OGDC
5.04       Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
6.01       Economic Analysis
7.01       Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP IBRD 13158R1



I. ENERGY SECTOR
Background
1.01      The increase in world petroleum prices since 1973 has had a major
adverse effect on Pakistan's balance-of-payments. Despite the fact that
Pakistan is self-sufficient in important commercial energy sources such as
natural gas and hydro power, the bulk of its petroleum needs is still imported.
Out of a total commercial energy supply in 1975/76 of 366 trillion BTU (9.3
million TOE), approximately 39% was met by crude oil and refined petroleum
products, almost 90% of which was imported. Although the substitution of
petroleum products by natural gas has been instrumental in reducing the share
of petroleum consumption in total energy demand from 51% to 39% between 1964
and 1976, net imports of oil and oil products have increased from $50 million
in FY73 to $370 million in FY77, which is equivalent to 33% of the current
account deficit. In the future, the scope for replacing petroleum consumption
by alternative energy supplies, such as natural gas, will be much more limited
than in the past. Unless new supplies of indigenous crude oil are discovered,
petroleum imports will continue to increase with future growth in consumption
of commercial energy, particularly in the transportation and agriculture
sectors, where alternative energy supplies cannot be used economically.
Historical Growth Patterns
1.02      Total energy consumption in the commercial sector increased by 7.5%
per annum during 1965-1976, while GNP increased at approximately 5% during the
same period. 1/ The breakdown of commercial energy demand by primary energy
source shows natural gas and hydroelectricity have become increasingly impor-
tant sources of commercial energy in the past decade, experiencing annual
average growth rates in excess of 10%; this has been paralleled by a relative
decrease in the use of petroleum and coal. The change in relative consumption
patterns is a direct consequence of government policy which has been aimed at
replacing petroleum consumption by natural gas and hydroelectricity. Current
projections show that this trend is likely to stabilize in the future.
Share of Total Commercial Energy Demand
(%)
Actual        Projected
Actual           Annual Growth   Annual Growth
FY 64   FY 74   FY 76    Rate 1964-1976  Rate 1976-1983
Petroleum        50.5    39.5    38.7              4               6
Natural Gas       23.0    38.1    37.4            11              11
Coal              17.0     7.0     5.5            -4               0
Hydel              9.5    14.9    17.8            13              13
Nuclear            -       0.5     0.6
Total      100.0   100.0   100.0
Source: "Energy Resources Cell"
1/   This energy/GNP elasticity of about 1.5 is fairly typical for countries
at Pakistan's stage of economic development and is higher than the corres-
ponding coefficient for more developed economies which i-s closer to 1.0.



- 2 -
1.03      The principal consuming sectors are the industrial sector ( includ-
ing fertilizer production) which is responsible for approximately 42% of
energy consumption, followed by transportation (17%) and power (17%). As of
1975, the consumption of commercial energy per capita was 0.12 tons of oil
equivalent (TOE) which compares with a world average 1/ of 1.37 TOE, an
average for developing countries of 0.27 TOE, and 0.15 TOE and 0.02 TOE,
respectively, for India and Bangladesh.
Pakistan's Energy Resources
1.04      Pakistan's domestic energy resources are relatively unusual in
being characterized by sizeable reserves of natural gas, substantial hydro
potential, but only limited known reserves of crude oil and exploitable coal,
and no uranium or other mineral ores which might be used as nuclear fuels.
Thus, while hydroelectricity and natural gas have been developed extensively
and now account for over half of Pakistan's total energy requirements, indi-
genous coal and crude oil supply a smaller proportion of these requirements.
The relatively small contribution of coal and crude oil is attributable
primarily to the poor quality and remote location of the country's principal
coal deposits and to the low level of past petroleum exploration activity.
Finally, as in most countries in South Asia, a large part of internal energy
requirements i.e. approximately 50% for Pakistan, are still met by non-
commercial energy sources such as firewood, animal dung, bagasse and maize
roots, which constitute the bulk of energy supplies in rural areas.
1.   Natural Gas
1.05      Natural gas was first discovered in the mid-fifties and for more
than two decades has been an important component of Pakistan's primary energy
resources. The principal producing field is that of Sui in Baluchistan
Province, which began production in 1958 and which currently is responsible
for nearly 85% of Pakistan's annual gas production of 180 billion cubic feet
(5.0 million TOE). Remaining recoverable reserves from the Sui reservoir
are estimated at 7.16 trillion cubic feet (179 million TOE).   The next
largest field, Mari, is being utilized for the production of nitrogenous
fertilizer. The remaining gas fields are much smaller and account for less
than 8% of total production. Total proven "recoverable" reserves are esti-
mated at 9.0 trillion cubic feet 2/ (225 million TOE) of which approximately
18.5% has been used.  Recent discoveries, still to be fully evaluated, at
Dhodak and Pirkoh, indicate that adequate gas supplies should be available to
meet foreseeable internal demand until at least the year 2000. Annex 1.01 (A)
shows Pakistan's natural gas fields and their reserves, and Map IBRD 13158
shows the location of these fields.
1/   Including centrally planned economies.
2/   A trillion cubic feet is equivalent to 28.3 billion m  or about 25
million tons of oil equivalent (TOE).



- 3-
2.   Hydro-electric Power
1.06      Pakistan has substantial hydro-electric power potential which has
been estimated to be of the order of 25,000 MW; approximately 10,000 MW is
considered to be "recoverable" economically.
1.07      Hydro-electric power sources provided 48 percent of the total
installed capacity in Pakistan of 3,273 MW in 1977. Hydroelectric generation
supplies the base load of the power system, whilst thermoelectric generation -
85% of which is produced from natural gas-fired plants - is normally used for
meeting peak demand, in particular for firming up hydro-generation during the
period March through May when the low reservoir levels reduce the output of
the hydroplants. A major part of the hydro potential has been developed
through the Tarbela dam project which, when fully completed in 1984, will
provide 2100 MW, or more than 30% of total generating capacity. A number of
other hydro-electric power development projects are being studied.
3.   Coal
1.08      Extensive coal deposits have been detected in different areas of the
country, but the quality of these resources is generally poor, having a high
ash and sulphur content and a low heating value. The largest known coal field
in Pakistan is Lakhra, producing coal of a quality suitable for minehead power
generation. Proven recoverable reserves are currently estimated at between
150-170 million long tons (65-75 million TOE).
4.   Oil
1.09      Pakistan contains extensive sedimentary basins having the charac-
teristics for generating and accumulating hydrocarbons. Due mainly to the
slow pace of exploration activity over the past twenty years, oil reserves are
not precisely determined and estimates vary widely even for oil fields already
in production. Estimates of recoverable reserves range from 35 million to
400 million barrels; (4.8 million tons to 55 million tons). Crude oil re-
serves in Pakistan are summarized in Annex 1.01 (b), and Map IBRD 13158 shows
the location of the principal oil fields.
1.10      Production of crude oil is limited to six fields in the Potwar
area in Punjab province of Northern Pakistan. It is currently about 9,500
barrels/day (0.45 million tons per year), and covers only 13% of Pakistan's
current requirements.
5.   Non-commercial
1.11      Non-commercial sources of energy have been used extensively in
Pakistan and still account for an estimated 50% of total energy consumption,
mostly in rural areas. These include firewood and animal dung (which account
for roughly 70% of non-commercial energy consumption), bagasses, cotton-sticks
and other farm wastes which owe their energy use to recent advances in farming
techniques in the agricultural sector. Firewood resulting from the cutting of



-4-
trees is generally sold in the market; wood gathered from branches of trees is
normally consumed directly by the farming population. Animal dung is used as
fuel for cooking purposes, primarily in the rural areas. A modest programme
for developing the use of biogas produced from animal dung in rural areas in
Pakistan is being undertaken on an experimental basis, to replace firewood,
animal dung and cotton sticks.
Future Energy Requirements
1.12      Energy consumption is forecast to grow at a rate of 8.0% per year
from 387 trillion BTU in FY77 to 615 trillion BTU in F183. This forecast is
based on an estimated GDP growth rate of 5.2% per year and an historically-
based income elasticity of demand for energy of 1.54. 1/ Energy demand in
this period will be met primarily by the availability of large amounts of
hydroelectricity, following the completion of the Tarbela dam, and the expan-
sion of natural gas supplies; consumption of these two energy resources are
forecast to grow at approximately 13% and 11% per annum, respectively, and to
account for 56% of primary energy consumption in 1983. Coal and nuclear power
are expected to play a marginal role as sources of energy, and though consump-
tion of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) is projected to increase rapidly, its
overall contribution to Pakistan's energy supply will continue to be small.
Despite the use of hydroelectricity and natural gas, the demand for petroleum
is forecast to grow at 6% per annum from 4.2 million tons in FY77 to 6.0
million tons by FY83. In order to be able to meet this demand, Pakistan will
have to import increased amounts of crude oil, at a cost of US$370 million
in FY77 rising to over US$900 by FY83 (projected in current prices) unless
indigenous crude oil in known fields is brought into production, and recent
discoveries are evaluated and developed rapidly.
Energy Policies
1.   Resource Development
1.13      Government policy in the development of energy resources is aimed
at reducing Pakistan's dependence on imported energy. Maximum emphasis has,
therefore, been laid first on the use of hydroenergy and, secondly, on pro-
viding a policy framework, which would stimulate a more intensive exploration
for and development of petroleum resources than has taken place previously.
To achieve the latter objective, the Government has: (a) provided the in-
centives to attract foreign private investment for oil and gas exploration,
either on the basis of joint ventures or through production-sharing agreements;
(b) reorganized and strengthened the technical and managerial expertise of the
state-owned Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) in order that it might
more effectively contribute to the development of known fields (Toot and
Dhodak primarily) as well as to exploration in prospective areas by itself or
in joint ventures with foreign oil companies .
1/   These forecasts, which are based on a lower growth of GDP over the next
5 years as estimated by Bank staff, differ from those of government
planning authorities who have projected energy growth rates of 11.7%
based on a GDP growth rate of 7.6%.



- 5 -
1.14      The importance that has been attributed to developing indigenous
energy resources is reflected in the volume of resources allocated to the
energy sector in the period FY79-83. Approximately Rs. 33.5 billion (US$3.1
billion) 1/ is allocated to energy sector investment. This amount represents
22% of total public investment during the period, a substantial increase from
the sectoral share of 15.3% in FY71, and higher than the average share for
energy investment in the developing countries, i.e., approximately 15%.
1.15      The bulk of investment is in the power sector and will be undertaken
by the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA). WAPDA's expansion pro-
gram will require a total investment of approximately 21,500 million rupees. 2/
Only modest investment is contemplated in coal, principally at the Lakra coal
field, for minehead electric power station. Approximately Rs. 5.6 billion
(US$570 million) is earmarked for public investment in the oil and gas sector,
more than 65% of which is to support OGDC's exploration and development
program. A part of OGDC's total available resources would be invested in
exploration drilling and would complement the exploration expenditures (esti-
mated at US$140 million) that are expected to be invested by private explora-
tion companies during the same period.
2.   Institutional
1.16      In March, 1977, the single Ministry responsible for fuel, water,
power and natural resources was divided into two separate ministries, a
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources and a Ministry of Water and Power.
Although considerable progress has been made at the policy level to provide
the incentives which will bring about a rapid development of Pakistan's re-
sources, a policy-making body is still lacking to formulate and coordinate a
coherent national energy policy, especially in regard to relative pricing of
various energy products which have adversely affected supply and demand
patterns.
3.   Pricing
1.17      Energy pricing policy has been guided by a twofold strategy.  First,
on the production side, incentives have been provided to stimulate the explo-
ration for and development of petroleum resources by basing well-head prices
for new oil discoveries on import parity. On the consumer side, the govern-
ment has endeavoured to protect key productive sectors as well as low-income
consumers from the major repercussions that would have been caused by a sudden
rise in the domestic prices of key energy inputs, such as electricity and
1/   Preliminary estimates which may be modified after budget review in
June, 1978.
2/   Slightly modified from estimate in government investment program.  The
investment program will be discussed more fully in the Third WAPDA power
project which is being processed.



- 6 -
petroleum. As a consequence, the government has adopted cross subsidization
pricing policies in regard to electricity tariffs and petroleum products,
followed by gradual increases in tariffs and prices. This is discussed in
greater detail in paragraphs 2.17-2.30.
II. THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR
Background
2.01      Pakistan has a land area of 310,000 square miles of which sedimen-
tary basins, which have the characteristics for generation and accumulation
of hydrocarbons, cover an area of over 250,000 square miles. In addition,
offshore areas extending to 200 miles are also available for petroleum ex-
ploration and development.
2.02      Over the past 30 years, 160 exploration and development wells were
drilled in Pakistan by foreign oil companies, and a further 20 wells by the
state-owned petroleum company, OGDC. However, the pace of exploration ac-
tivity in Pakistan has been uneven. Exploration activity by foreign com-
panies reached a peak in 1958 following the discoveries of large gas fields
in the mid-50s, but fell off again sharply from 1960 onwards as a result of
the prevailing unattractive well-head prices for natural gas, the extremely
large petroleum deposits being discovered in the Middle East and the rela-
tively unattractive prospects for commercial production of crude oil in
Pakistan at pre-1973 prices. During the 1960s most of the exploratory drill-
ing was carried out by OGDC which was established in 1961 with the technical
assistance provided by the Soviet Union. OGDC, however, made little headway
towards Pakistan's primary objective in the sector, that of detecting in-
creased reserves of crude oil.
2.03      The investment and efforts of the oil companies and the Government
led to the discovery of nine commercial gas fields and five commercial oil
fields. Oil and gas exploration in Pakistan has so far enjoyed a high
success rate of about 20% as compared to a world-wide average of about 10%.
2.04      The advent of the increase in world oil prices and the resulting
increase in the cost of oil imports heightened the urgency for a set of poli-
cies which would provide the incentives to step up exploration and drilling
activity. A new package of incentives was drawn up in 1975 and the response
has so far been encouraging. Some seven new agreements have been, or are
about to be, concluded since 1975 with different companies who have committed
themselves to approximately $140 million of exploration expenditures in the
period 1976-84, i.e. 15 to 20 wells, about twice the average of one well per
year in the previous period. At the same time, the GOP increased its finan-
cial commitments to OGDC, which, after the 1975 reorganization, started to
modernize its drilling equipment and to introduce modern management and
exploration techniques. The most important discovery made by OGDC since 1975
has been the Dhodak field which, if confirmed by further studies to be financed
under the proposed credit, could be the largest oil field discovered so far in
Pakistan.



-7-
Organization and Structure
2.05      The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources 1/ has official
jurisdiction over the development of oil, gas, coal and non-fuel mineral
resources in Pakistan. The Ministry is composed of four directorates:
Petroleum Concessions, Oil Operations, Gas Operations and Oil Movements.
2.06      Historically, the private sector has played an important role in
the development of the petroleum industry in Pakistan. Over the past decade,
however, and particularly since the Economic Reforms Order of 1972, government
participation has increased appreciably, particularly in oil refining and
marketing where the government controls 46% and 41%, respectively, of equity,
and in gas transmission and distribution, which is now 95% government con-
trolled. Although government involvement in the industry will remain sub-
stantial, it is expected that new policies towards exploration will result
in a more balanced involvement of the private and public sector in the
development of new petroleum resources.
2.07      Oil and natural gas production is at present primarily the respon-
sibility of two companies, Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) and Pakistan
Oilfields Limited (POL), both with majority private ownership. PPL, in which
Burmah Oil Company (BOC) holds 70% of the equity, is principally involved in
the development of the Sui gas field. POL's main activity is to undertake
exploration and production in the Potwar area where it is currently developing
the Meyal field; 60% of POL's equity is held by Attock Oil Company (AOC).2/
The remaining sector production has been undertaken by the government-owned
corporation, OGDC. Since 1947, the bulk of the exploration activity has been
undertaken by PPL, POL, AOC, BOC and OGDC.
2.08      Pakistan's requirements for refined petroleum products are met by
three refineries: Pakistan Refinery Ltd. (PRL), the state-owned National
Refinery Ltd. (NRL), which are both located in Karachi and refine imported
crude oil, and the AOC refinery 3/ which refines indigenous crude oil. The
marketing companies in Pakistan are the state-owned, Pakistan State Oil
Company (PSO) and the privately-owned, Pakistan Burmah Shell and Caltex; their
1/   As mentioned in paragraph 1.16, the single Ministry responsible for
fuel, water, power and natural resources was divided into two separate
ministries in March, 1977.
2/   Attock Oil Company is a London-based Company in which 51% of the equity
is owned by a Saudi-Kuwaiti investment group and the remaining 49%
by Attock Petroleum Limited.
3/   Hitherto fully-owned by AOC.  An agreement has now been reached on future
ownership in which AOC would retain 60% equity and the remaining 40% would
be subscribed by the public.



market shares are respectively 60 percent, 28 percent and 12 percent. Petro-
leum products are distributed within Pakistan principally by rail, a smaller
proportion by road and a very minor amount by pipeline.
2.09      There are two principal gas transmission companies, the Sui Gas
Transmission Company (SGTC) which transports gas by pipeline from the Sui
field to the Karachi area in the south, and the Sui Northern Gas Pipeline
(SNGPL) which provides transmission lines that extend to the northern part
of Pakistan. Both these transmission companies, originally in private
hands, are now government-controlled, which has 87% and 70% shareholdings
respectively in each of these companies. SNGPL also distributes gas in the
Northern region, while SGTC sells gas to two distribution companies, the
Indus Gas Company (IGC) and the Karachi Gas Company (KGC), both of which
are government-controlled.
Investment
2.10      The sector investment program for the five year period 1979-83 has
recently been completed. The principal elements of the proposed investment
program are the following:
(i) Major emphasis on bringing into full production known oil
fields - principally Toot and Meyal - and to evaluating
fully the production potential of the recently discovered
Dhodak field;
(ii)  stepping up considerably the level of exploration activity,
with an important share of the capital being provided by
foreign exploration companies;
(iii) modest investment in pipeline and refining capacity, suffi-
cient to meet the forecast growth in demand of petroleum
products by 1984; and
(iv)  further investment in gas transmission and distribution
facilities.
2.11      The primary emphasis of the investment program is aimed at acce-
lerating the pace of exploration and development activity in order to detect
and bring into production new reserves of crude oil as soon as possible.
A key element in the government's investment strategy has been to encourage
the participation of foreign oil companies by providing the necessary incen-
tives to attract exploration capital. At the same time, even though explora-
tion activity by foreign exploration companies and, to a lesser extent, by
privately-owned Pakistani petroleum companies will increase significantly
during the period of the Plan, the overall amount - an estimated US$140
million - is still relatively modest and would not be sufficient in itself
to maintain an adequate level of exploration activity. For this reason, an
important, complementary role must be played by OGDC in attaining the overall
required level of exploration and development activity. As a consequence,
the second element of the government's investment strategy has been to
strengthen and streamline OGDC's management and technical capacities, and
assign on a priority basis, the necessary budget resources.



- 9 -
2.12      Total sector investment between 1979-83 is tentatively estimated
at US$880 million. A breakdown of the planned investment is summarized
below:
US$ million
Exploration and Development                    540
OGDC                                     (400)
Private                                 (140)
Production                                      85
Mari field                                (13)
Sui field                                (22)
Meyal field                               (50)
Pipelines and Refineries                       130
Products line                            (50)
Attock expansion                          (25)
PRL visbreaker                            (35)
Dhodak Topping plant                     (20)
Marketing                                       25
Gas Transmission & Distribution                100
Total                                     880
The principal component of the sector investment plan is OGDC's investment
program which comprises about US$400 million 1/, and which represents an almost
three fold increase over the total government's contribution to OGDC since
its inception. This plan will permit a sizeable level of exploration and
development drilling to be undertaken; its implementation will be facilitated
by the recent acquisition of modern drilling rigs and other ancillary equipment.
The rest of the government's investment plan - i.e. in production, pipelines
and refinery capacity, and gas transmission and distribution facilities -
involves a relatively smaller level of investment which is necessary to meet
the forecast growth in domestic demand, for petroleum products and natural gas,
respectively. This investment would be financed primarily from internal cash
generation of the different operating companies and from local borrowing;
except for the remaining government equity contribution for the products
1/   Estimated investment expenditures are somewhat conservative and do not
take into consideration OGDC's likely ability to be able to mobilize
additional resources from other lending agencies to help finance the
development of future fields once the production potential of such
fields has been adequately proven.



- 10 -
pipeline, the planned investment would impose little burden on government
resources. The proposed investment in refinery expansion reflects Pakistan's
more pressing short-term need to add secondary refining capacity to existing
facilities rather than a new refining capacity which would only exacerbate the
growing imbalance between petroleum products supply and consumption patterns.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the Association would review the
Government's investment plans in the oil and gas sector, including any possible
investment in LNG facilities that may be contemplated in the future (section
3.04, Credit Agreement).
Development Prospects
2.13      Crude Oil.  In the short-term (1978-83), Pakistan's success in
reducing its dependence on imported crude oil - which now accounts for 87% of
total petroleum consumption i.e. 75,000 barrels/day - will be determined by
its ability to bring three potential fields into full production: Toot and
Meyal, which are already producing, and Dhodak which has yet to be developed.
On the basis of present production levels, and the estimated pace of develop-
ment drilling activity, the production of indigenous crude oil from discovered
fields is projected to increase from an estimated 0.60 million tons (12,300
barrels/day) in 1977/78 to 2.40 million tons (49,300 barrels/day) by 1982/83
as a result of development drilling at the Meyal field by POL, and at Toot and
Dhodak by OGDC:
1977/78    1982/83
(i)  Private                    (million tons)
POL fields            0.52        1.04
(ii) OGDC
-         Toot                 0.08         0.33
Dhodak                -           1.03
Total             0.60         2.40
The key variable in the short-term in estimating future domestic production
is the potential of the Dhodak field which the proposed loan will help to
evaluate. Estimates of the production potential from the field are neces-
sarily speculative without additional seismic surveying and drilling, despite
the promising results obtained so far. On the basis of the preliminary
information gathered from one "wildcat" well, the Dhodak field is estimated
to be capable of producing 21,200 barrels per day (1.03 million tons per year)
by FY83.
2.14      The rapid development of known fields would have a significant
impact on Pakistan's balance-of-payments in the period 1977-83. Increased
production from the Meyal and Toot fields, and the start of production from
Dhodak field in 1982 will reduce Pakistan's dependency on imported crude
oil by an estimated US$270 million in current prices by FY83.



- 11 -
2.15      In the medium-term, Pakistan's continuing dependency on imported
crude oil will be critically determined by the success of current exploration
activity being undertaken by foreign exploration companies and by OGDC. Given
the increased levels of exploration expected, modest success of the planned
40-50 exploratory wells between 1976-84 could reduce the import bill even
further in the mid-1980s. It is conceivable that by the late 1980s Pakistan
could achieve self-sufficiency in crude oil.
2.16      Natural Gas.  Production of natural gas has increased sharply in
the past decade. Production in 1977 was 184 billion cubic feet, triple that
of 1965 and nearly seven times the 1960 level. Since it is expected that
relatively abundant supplies of natural gas will continue to be available in
Pakistan, at least in the medium-term, production levels will be determined
by the growth in local demand and any export markets that may develop.
Assuming an annual GDP growth of between 5% to 6% per year, the growth of
commercial energy consumption is projected at 8% annually and that of natural
gas at 11% per annum. An important question which will require careful study
and government decision will be the coordinated exploitation of existing dry
gas fields (i.e. Sui) and newly discovered ones producing associated gas (i.e.
Dhodak) whose only alternative use would be re-injection or flaring.
Pricing
2.17      The pricing of crude oil and petroleum products in Pakistan has
been dictated primarily by the country's need to adjust to the rise in the
cost of crude oil imports since the end of 1973. The key elements in the
government's pricing stategy have been (i) to increase well-head prices for
new oil discoveries in order to encourage investment in domestic oil produc-
tion, and (ii) to raise gradually average retail prices to near inter-
national levels, while endeavoring to protect certain key economic sectors
and low-income consumers from the disruptive effects of an immediate adjust-
ment of domestic prices. Overall, this pricing strategy has been generally
successful. The impact of rapidly rising energy costs has been lessened,
while exploration companies have already made an encouraging response to
increased well-head prices for crude oil. Nevertheless, anomalies continue
to exist in the pricing structure which require corrective adjustment and
which are discussed in the ensuing paragraphs.
1.   Producer Prices
Oil
2.18      In order to provide the incentives to encourage further exploration
and development of indigenous oil resources, the government, in a new policy
initiative taken in 1975, has established that well-head prices for oil in
new concession agreements with petroleum exploration companies will be based
on international prices. There has already been an encouraging response to
the assurance of increased well-head prices from foreign petroleum companies
and it is anticipated that increased exploration activity by these companies
will lead to new petroleum discoveries. Revision of "old oil" well-head



- 12 -
prices, is also under consideration. The GOP has almost finalized negotia-
tions with POL and AOC on the development of the Meyal field, the largest
privately operated oil field in Pakistan; within the framework of these nego-
tiations, an agreement has already been reached on the price of "old" oil.
Gas
2.19      The current well-head price for natural gas provides little incen-
tive for new exploration for natural gas - which has now come to a standstill
with the exception of OGDC's exploration program - and acts as disincentive to
develop further known resources.  Although supplies for natural gas in Pakistan
are relatively abundant in being able to meet the projected growth in domestic
demand in the medium-term, the regulation of natural gas prices at very low
levels may require examination in the future, if additional reserves are to be
developed for future domestic demand and for possible export markets.
2.   Ex-refinery Prices
2.20      Pakistan's refineries were on a self-financing basis until 1973.
Ex-refinery prices of petroleum products, which have been closely regulated
since the increase in the price of crude oil, are currently too low to provide
revenues adequate to cover the operating costs of the country's two principal
refineries; the government has agreed to cover shortfalls in operating ex-
penses. 1/ The payments do not impose a net fiscal burden on the Central
Government since they are financed principally by a sizeable "development
surcharge" tax on motor gasoline; this fixed return formula with its asso-
ciated government contribution is cumbersome and provides little incentive to
improve operating efficiency. A return to operating on a self-financing basis
is needed and a more flexible price regulating system should be introduced to
facilitate the corresponding adjustments in ex-refinery prices required by
future changes in the price of imported crude oil. Moreover, specific pricing
adjustments are needed to encourage the domestic production of liquefied
petroleum gas, which is currently used mostly as a refinery fuel, but which
could be substituted advantageously for imported kerosene and light diesel
oil.
3.   Consumer Prices
Oil
2.21      Current prices of petroleum products to the consumer are charac-
terized by: (a) retail prices which overall closely reflect the economic
cost of importing, refining and distributing petroleum products; (b) cross
subsidization of individual refinery products in which higher-priced motor
gasoline subsidizes in part the prices of kerosene and light diesel oil;
and (c) geographical price equivalence of petroleum products throughout
Pakistan.
1/   These shortfalls were financed by a system of equalization payments which
assure the refineries a 15% return on paid up capital. These transfers
are provided from surcharges levied in varying amount on refinery products.



- 13 -
2.22      Growth in the consumption of petroleum products has been held to
a modest 3% per annum since 1973. In the four intervening years since the
increase in oil prices, consumer prices have been increased on six separate
occasions. The retail price of regular gasoline which accounts for 11% of
petroleum consumption, is now US$1.07 per US gallon, considerably higher than
the price of gasoline in countries such as Thailand and Philippines, which are
even more dependent on crude oil imports; high speed diesel, a key input in
the transportation sector and responsible for a third of total consumption,
is priced at US$0.54 per US gallon which is higher than import parity. The
changes in retail prices since 1973 as well as the various elements that
comprise the pricing structure of petroleum products are described in Annex
2.01. On the other hand, the prices of kerosene and fuel oil have been held
at levels equal to or lower than import parity; the pricing of these products
has been lower than the equivalent prices for these products in other Asian
countries. A comparison of the retail prices of principal petroleum products
in a number of Asian countries is shown in the following table: 1/
(Reg/Super)    US$/US Gallon   High Speed    (US$/Metric Ton)
Gasoline          Kerosene      Diesel Oil         Fuel Oil
Pakistan             1.07/1.62            0.34           0.54             59.7
India                1.73/1.80            0.82           0.82             92.0
Bangladesh           1.15/--              0.52           0.52             82.4
Thailand             0.74/0.80            0.51           0.47             86.4
2.23      The prevalence of cross subsidies has aggravated imbalances in the
demand for light and middle distillates, which have to be met by the import/
export of refined products and which is costly in terms of storage, transpor-
tation and handling. Modifications also need to be made in the geographical
equivalence system, which has been in existence since 1966, in order to
prevent current abuses in distributing refinery products, as well as to
ensure that inland freight margins are adequate to cover transportation
costs.
1/   For comparison, the international posted and contract prices (f.o.b.)
for these products are:
(Reg/Super)                  High Speed        (US$/Metric Ton)
Gasoline        Kerosene    Diesel Oil            Fuel Oil
0.41/0.45          0.40          0.37               83.1
Source: Petroleum Economics Limited - November/December 1977.



- 14 -
Gas
2.24      Natural gas consumer prices have beer fixed historically at a level
somewhat below that of fuel oil in order to provide an adequate incentive for
its utilization. As such, it has been a key policy tool of the government in
bringing about a rapid expansion in the use of natural gas in the industrial,
commercial and the power sectors during the past years. Current retail prices
are adequate.  The large gap between producer and consumer prices is captured
by a development surcharge tax component which provides an important source
of revenue to the government.
4.   Fiscal Contribution of the Sector
2.25      Petroleum Products:  Two specific components comprise the current
pricing formula for petroleum products: an excise duty tax and a development
surcharge. A third element--the "inland freight margin"--is also part of
the price formula and is specifically earmarked for reimbursing the actual
transportation expenses of the marketing companies incurred in distributing
petroleum products at a fixed sales price throughout the country. The con-
tribution of each of these elements to the current prices of individual
petroleum products is shown in Annex 2.01.
2.26      The revenue generated from the sale of petroleum products between
1975-77 is summarized below:
FY        Excise Duty       Net Development Surcharge Receipts
---------------- PRS million --------------------
1976           763                         +92
1977           740                        +243
1978           900                         -85
1979 1/        825                         +91
1/   budget
Excise duty revenues contribute to Federal Government tax revenues. Develop-
ment surcharge revenues, however, have been used for three primary purposes
since the oil crisis:
(i)  to cover the costs of refinery operations (para. 2.20);
(ii)  to subsidize domestic prices of deficit import products
(primarily kerosene); and
(iii)  to cover the full transportation expenses of the marketing
companies since the inland freight margins are currently
insufficient to meet actual expenses.
Any residual development surcharge tax revenue becomes a part of Central
Government revenues.  The utilization of the development surcharge tax
revenues between 1975-77 is summarized below:



- 15 -
----------- (PRS million)--- --------
Utilization of development Surcharge
Total                           Deficit    Freight    Net Gov't   (+ Surplus)
FY       Revenue   Refinery   Storage   Imports         Pool        Reserve    (- Deficit)
1976       850        248          0          190        320         +92
1977       738        109         26          175        185        +243
1978       810        339         30          267        260         -85
1979 1/   1025        386         30          218        300         +91
1/   budget
2.27      During 1976 and 1977, the development surcharge tax revenues were
sufficient to cover the operating shortfalls of the refineries and marketing
companies, as well as provide a net contribution to government revenues;
significantly, this contribution was largest in 1977 when the refinery opera-
tions were placed for a brief period on a self-financing basis. In 1978,
however, losses were incurred by the Karachi refining operations, primarily
because ex-refinery prices--which are government controlled--were not adjusted
correspondingly with increases in the price of imported crude oil. As a
consequence, the total revenue generated from the development surcharge tax in
1978 was insufficient to cover the cumulative requirements of the refinery
operations, the inland freight pool and the subsidization of deficit import
product prices, which in turn will require a net contribution to the sector
from Federal Government revenues. As a result of further increases in con-
sumer prices, however, net development surcharge receipts are again expected
to be positive in 1979. During negotiations, the Government agreed to examine
measures to establish a more flexible and efficient regulation of ex-refinery
prices as well as the undertaking of a study which will examine specific
pricing issues.
2.2S      Natural Gas:  Tax revenues generated from the sale of natural gas are
of two kinds: excise duty and a development surcharge tax. Total revenues
generated between 1975-77 are shown below.
--------------     PRS millions---------------
FY                    Excise Duty      Development Surcharge Receipts
1976                        290                   290
1977                        310                   390
1978 (Estimated)            320                   480
All of the excise tax derived from the production of natural gas is earmarked
for the budget of the provincial governments; as mentioned in paragraph 2.24
development surcharge tax revenues contribute directly to Federal Government
revenues.



- 16 -
5.   Recommendations
2.29      In spite of the periodic adjustments made to retail prices, the
existing pricing structure has a number of defects. Overall, there remains a
need to develop a long-term policy which, while consistent with the objective
of ensuring that lower income groups have access to basic energy needs, would:
(i) provide adequate incentives to develop existing oil and gas fields in an
optimum way; (ii) reflect more precisely the economic costs of bringing
refined products to the consumer, and (iii) establish interfuel price rela-
tionships more closely on the basis of the opportunity cost of competing
fuels.
2.30      It is proposed that a study be undertaken to analyse and make
recommendations on a number of specific pricing issues, including: (a)
pricing of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG); (b) rationalization of exrefinery
prices; (c) analysis of the adequacy of the present system for distribution of
petroleum products. The preliminary terms of reference for the consultants
for this study have been completed and have been discussed with the government
authorities during negotiations. The Government has agreed to undertake and
complete the study by no later than December 31st, 1979.
The Role of the Bank
2.31      The proposed credit will provide OGDC with the necessary financial
and technical means to: (1) accelerate the development of the Toot field;
(2) carry out the preliminary studies to assess the Dhodak discovery and
(3) increase its technical capabilities through technical assistance and
training. The Bank has already played an important institution-building
role in identifying organizational deficiencies, weaknesses in planning and
budgeting procedures and in management and accounting practices. Moreover,
the Bank has assisted in shaping OGDC's investment plans over the five years
by helping OGDC draw-up a program with the appropriate investment priorities
and which balances correspondingly the likely availability of budget resources.
As a result, OGDC is planning to concentrate its effort on the development of
already discovered oil fields rather than spreading its resources more thinly
on numerous exploration ventures.
2.32      With regard to the Bank's broader role in the sector, the proposed
energy pricing study will help improve a number of shortcomings in current
policy, particularly in regard to energy pricing. In the future, by maintain-
ing a close collaboration with OGDC and the oil and gas sector as a whole, the
Bank will help ensure that sector investment plans are adequately formulated
in terms of priorities, and that sector policies will facilitate the efficient
development and utilization of Pakistan's hydrocarbon potential.



- 17 -
III. THE BENEFICIARY
OGDC's Corporate Existence
3.01      OGDC is a government owned corporation established in 1961 under
Ordinance No. 37 with the technical and financial assistance of the USSR. The
assigned functions of the Corporation are generally to "plan, promote, organize
and implement programs for the exploration and development of oil and gas re-
sources, and the production, refinery and sale of oil and gas, ..." Although
a quasi-autonomous entity instructed to act on commercial considerations, OGDC
has functioned in many respects as a government department in the oil and gas
sector.
3.02      Thus far, OGDC's major activity has been prospecting (geological,
gravity, seismic, etc. surveys) for petroleum deposits and the exploratory
drilling of 16 wells. These efforts have been quite successful resulting in
six discoveries: 4 relatively small gas fields, the Toot oil field and the
Dhodak gas condensate field. In addition, OGDC recently announced the dis-
covery of a major natural gas field at Pirkoh. Development of oil production
up to now has been disappointing. Although Toot was discovered in 1968 only
six wells have been drilled and of these only two (Nos. 1 and 6) were in
production in 1977, averaging about 1,500 BPD. Leadership and administrative
factors undoubtedly played a role, but the main cause for these poor results
seems to be the depth and difficult drilling conditions characteristic of the
field and the quality of the drilling materials and equipment. Loss of
skilled manpower to more attractive employment opportunities in the Middle
East further compounded these problems. In 1975, the government extensively
reorganized the corporation under a new chairman and increased its financial
resources. OGDC has now made a good start in modernizing its equipment base
and in building up a trained staff. However, much still needs to be done
before the organization can function on the scale necessary to effectively
develop Pakistan's petroleum resources.
3.03      As a result of OECD's low production and aggravated further by
hitherto low sales prices which have been fixed by the government, net income
from operations so far has been insignificant and has contributed essentially
nothing to OGDC's budget. Except for loans from the USSR and a small amount
of borrowing from the National Development Finance Corporation, all of OGDC's
financial resources have been provided through government equity contributions
amounting to a total of US$133 million equivalent. These contributions have
increased sharply since 1973 and the reorganization, from US$7.0 million in
FY73 to US$20 million in FY76 and US$41 in FY77, and reflect the increased
emphasis on developing domestic petroleum resources.
3.04      OGDC's overall management is vested in a Board of Directors consist-
ing of not less than three and not more than five directors. The directors
are appointed by the Central Government. The present Board comprises three
members from the Mlinistry of Petroleum and Natural Resources and two members
representing national petrochemical and mineral development corporations.



- 18 -
The Chairman of the Board also serves as the Chief Executive Officer of the
Corporation. OGDC's headquarters are situated in Islamabad with regional
offices and field offices located in other parts of the country.
Operations
3.05      OGDC is, at the present time, primarily involved in the exploration,
development and production of hydrocarbons, although its charter does permit
its involvement in a broader range of activities, including the refining,
distribution and transportation of oil gas and refined products. Within the
framework of increased exploration by foreign companies, OGDC is planning
to develop its service activities, particularly in drilling where it is
planning to become involved in joint venture drilling operations which would
supplement the availability of skilled manpower in the country and assist in
the training of Pakistani nationals, thus permitting a larger drilling program
in the future. The services of the joint venture operations would be avail-
able to both OGDC and to other exploration companies. The proposed project
would considerably increase OGDC's scale of operations and expand its scope
in downstream operations to include the processing and pipeline transportation
of petroleum.
Personnel
3.06      OGDC employs about 3,300 persons, constituting a force which would
be considered overstaffed for a Western oil company but which reflects the
labor intensive practices throughout South Asia. About 400 persons fall
into the various skilled categories including drillers. In spite of a salary
policy which is generally comparable to that of the private sector, there is
a relative shortage of skilled technical personnel due to competition from
the Middle East. The shortage is particularly severe for experienced and
qualified people for the various drilling operations. To mitigate the man-
power constraint on the level of exploration and development activity, OGDC is
placing increased emphasis on internal training programs, staff participation
in overseas technical training and the use of expatriate labor contracts. The
proposed project would support this effort by providing for foreign drilling
crews and by providing funds for strengthening the Oil and Gas Training
Institute (OGTI).
Budgeting and Accounting                                                                       -
3.07      OGDC's annual budget is prepared in October/November for the fiscal
period beginning the following July 1. Physical targets are first set by the
Board of Directors and a Budget Committee, consisting of senior executive
officers, and the financial requirements are developed accordingly. A complete
Annual Development Program is submitted to the government for review: this
provides revised financial estimates for the current year, physical targets
and financial requirements for the coming fiscal period together with a



- 19 -
breakdown of funds required in terms of local and foreign exchange. Pre-
liminary government approval is normally conveyed to OGDC by April and the
government's financial contributions to OGDC are formally incorporated in the
national budget announced in June.
3.08      OGDC's Finance and Accounts Department is directed by a Finance
Manager who is one of nine department heads reporting to the Chairman.
The Finance Manager is assisted by a Chief Accounts Officer who in turn is
supported by several qualified accountants responsible for stores and fixed
assets accounting, costs and budget, and payroll and other ledger accounts.
3.09      Virtually all of the exploration and drilling costs incurred by
OGDC since its establishment remain at present in its Balance Sheet under
a deferred cost account.  Continuing to retain and accumulate all drilling
expenditures in this account, as has been done so far, will magnify the ex-
isting distortion in its financial statements. This is particularly true
in view of the fact that a substantial portion of such costs are expected
to relate to unsuccessful drilling and exploration expenditures. OGDC has
agreed to revise its accounting practices in accordance with oil industry
standards starting in late 1978 and to keep separate financial accounts of its
operations by field.
Management Capabilities
3.10      OGDC management has improved considerably since 1975.  The top
echelon staff is competent, and there appear to be no major difficulties
in directing the organization's present activities. However, there is a
clear indication that as these activities increase in scope and complexity,
improvements will be needed in the following areas:
(i)  Organizational Structure - Functions and responsibilities
appear to be loosely defined, especially between services
and operations, and many departments report directly to
the chairman.
(ii)  Planning and Budgeting Procedures - Cost information appears
to be accurate, but OGDC needs assistance in developing
techniques for setting budgetary targets and making financial
projections.
(iii)  Management Information System - The absence of adequate
performance indicators and of a coherent monitoring
and reporting system within OGDC has led to delays and
inefficiencies in the execution of its drilling programs.
An adequate management and information system is parti-
cularly important in a country where logistic problems
are formidable.



- 20 -
3.11      In view of the foregoing, OGDC has agreed to employ an
experienced and qualified management consultant, on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Association, to review management and planning
practices and to submit a report to OGDC by September 1979. OGDC
has further agreed to discuss the recommendations with the Association
with a view toward their timely implementation, beginning not more
than 6 months after the consultant has issued his report. A summary
description of the scope of the study is in Annex 3.01.
Audit
3.12      Under the terms of the Oil and Gas Development Corporation Ordin-
ance, the accounts of OGDC must be audited by not less than two auditors,
who shall be chartered accountants. OGDC is audited jointly by Ibrahim,
Shaikh & Co., and Muniff, Ziauddin & Co., both Pakistani firms. Since 1975
the Finance and Accounts Department has proceeded to reorganize the corpora-
tion's historical accounts and, while this work is nearing completion, audit
reviews still lag. OGDC management expect that by the end of 1978 audits will
be on a current basis and that annual accounts will thereafter be audited
within an acceptable period, which should be confirmed during negotiations,
after the end of the respective fiscal year. OGDC has agreed that audited
accounts for both the Toot project account and for OGDC as a whole will be
submitted to the Bank not later than 12 months after the end of each fiscal
year.  These auditing arrangements are satisfactory.
3.13      As a wholly owned government corporation, OGDC is also subject to
audit review by the office of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Pakistan.
These audits are normally conducted after completion of the commercial audit;
for this reason and because of the overall work load of the Auditor-General's
office, these reviews are not usually completed within a satisfactory time
frame. Internal audit within OGDC is satisfactory; a separate department
under the direction of a Chief Internal Auditor is established which reports
to the chairman.
Insurance
3.14      OGDC carries adequate comprehensive insurance on its major facili-
ties and equipment in operation. New drilling equipment is covered at
replacement cost; older and relatively obsolete equipment is insured at
book value.  Insurance against hazards of acquisition, transportation, and
delivery of goods is regularly arranged.



- 21 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Background
4.01      Until now, the portion of the Potwar basin around 60-80 miles
southwest of Rawalpindi is the only area in Pakistan to yield crude oil
production, averaging about 9,500 BDP during 1977. The largest field in the
area, Meyal, owned and operated by Pakistan Oilfields Ltd. (POL), was dis-
covered in 1968 and averaged about 6,500 BPD in 1977. OGDC's Toot field was
also discovered in 1968 and accounted for approximately 1,500 BPD of the
area's production in 1977. The remaining Potwar production is divided among
four smaller mostly depleted fields. Both Toot and Meyal are estimated to
have considerable unexploited production potential, of the order of 10,000
and 20,000 BPD respectively for the two fields.
4.02      In 1976 OGDC drilled a discovery well at Dhodak.  (See Map IBRD
13158.) The discovery is considered to be of some significance because it
is the first liquid petroleum find outside Potwar in a geological formation
that is similar to oil producing areas in Iran and Iraq. Preliminary data
from the discovery well indicates a gas condensate deposit containing what
might be described as a very light crude oil with a high ratio of gas to oil.
There are indications that the field contains one prolific horizon and pos-
sibly a second with production potential and that well productivity could be
in the range of 1,500 BPD. OGDC estimates that the field might ultimately
yield up to 20,000 BPD of condensate and 200 MMCFD of natural gas; however,
further drilling and geophysical studies are required to confirm these esti-
mates.
4.03      The Secretary of Petroleum and Natural Resources and Chairman of
OGDC visited the Bank during April 1977 to discuss Pakistan's oil explora-
tion and development program and the possibilities of Bank involvement and
assistance. In early June 1977, a delegation representing the GOP and OGDC
visited Washington to present a proposal for developing the Toot and Dhodak
fields. After reviewing the available data, the Bank agreed to appraise the
development of the Toot field but felt that further studies were necessary
to establish the potential of the Dhodak field. This report is based on the
result of an appraisal mission which visited Pakistan between July 10 and
August 3, 1977, and of a short up-dating mission which returned in October
1977.
Description of the Project
4.04      The proposed project has three main objectives:  (i) to boost domes-
tic oil supplies by developing increased production from Toot; (ii) to assist
OGDC in acquiring the necessary skills to carry on successful oil operations;
and (iii) to evaluate the potential of the Dhodak discovery and prepare for
its rapid exploitation. The individual components comprising the project are
as follows:



- 22 -
1.   The Toot Drilling Program
4.05      Eight wells are proposed:  one delineation well (to define the
lateral extent of the productive zone) to be drilled by an OGDC crew with
one of the older drilling rigs and seven production wells to be drilled
with two of the new American rigs manned by expatriate crews. A geological
and reservoir engineering study by Core Laboratories Inc. during early 1977
estimated that the Toot field contained 49.4 million barrels of recoverable
oil. Of this quantity, 13.3 million barrels could then be classified as
"proved" on the basis of the available data. Since then, OGDC has completed
and tested an additional well, and a preliminary re-evaluation of reserves by
consultants estimates the proved recoverable reserves at 16.5 million barrels.
It is expected that additional proved quantities will be verified as drilling
continues and more data becomes available. A drilling consultant (provided
by CIDA) would be assigned to the project for the duration of the drilling
program. After completion of the delineation well, a reservoir study would be
undertaken to assess the ultimate potential of the field and to determine what
further steps should be taken for its exploitation. In addition the project
would also provide materials and services for dual completions, production
stimulation and well workovers, if the need for them develops during the
drilling program.
2.   Toot Surface Facilities
4.06      The project would include all facilities required to produce and
market the crude oil and associated gas. The main items that would be in-
cluded are gas-oil separators, oil and gas gathering systems, oil storage
tanks, pumps, gas dehydration unit, an 8" crude oil pipeline (20 miles)
and a short gas pipeline to the Sui Northern Pipelines Ltd. trunkline.
3.   Logistic Support
4.07      The project would provide heavy duty trucks and trailers capable
of transporting, rigging-up and supplying three drilling rigs and a short
take-off and landing aircraft. OGDC's past drilling programs have been ham-
pered by logistic problems. It has lacked the necessary motorized equipment
to move its rigs and keep them supplied with the large quantities of imported
drilling materials landed in Karachi. Dependence on rail transport causes
long delays, and adequate rental road transport equipment is scarce and unde-
pendable. The aircraft is needed for making emergency deliveries of critical
supplies to remote drilling sites, especially during parts of the year when
certain areas are inaccessible by road. The aircraft would also be used for
medical and other emergencies in the field and for the transport of drilling
crews.
4.   Dhodak Studies and Project Preparation
4.08      The project would include a helicopter supported (because of the
rough terrain) seismic survey of the Dhodak field and a reservoir evaluation
after OGDC has drilled the required delineation wells. If, as is anticipated,



- 23 -
the field is found to have sufficient recoverable oil reserves, a feasibility
study would be undertaken in early 1979 to define the development program
and the required downstream facilities. A project could then be prepared
by about late 1979.
5.   Training Program and Management Consultants
4.09      The project would assist the Oil and Gas Training Institute (OGTI)
in establishing an effective training program to further the skills of OGDC's
operating and technical staff. Funds would be available for expatriate
instructors and for the procurement of laboratory equipment and training
aids in the amounts of about US$200,000 and US$500,000 respectively. OGTI
now conducts a limited training program in Karachi in a facility that can
accommodate 20 students on a live-in basis. Because of the critical need
for skilled workers in all phases of the petroleum industry, OGTI plans to
substantially increase its training efforts. Future plans call for a new
building in Islamabad where outside applicants as well as OGDC employees could
enroll, but for the present additional space would have to be found in Karachi.
OGDC has agreed to providing adequate quarters for the OGTI training program.
Funds would also be included for management and accounting services for the
purposes explained in para 3.10.
Implementation of the Project
4.10      OGDC's senior management is experienced and technically competent.
CIDA, as part of its technical assistance program to the oil and gas sector,
has engaged Petro-Canada to provide OGDC with technical assistance for
the various phases of its operations, including the Toot Project. According-
ly, Petro-Canada would assist OGDC in establishing a project management
team to implement the project. This groups would include a project manager
and staff largely recruited from the OGDC staff. Petro-Canada would determine
and provide the foreign and technical experts needed by the unit to function
effectively.
4.11      As previously noted the Toot drilling program would be executed
with experienced foreign drilling crews and with the technical assistance
of a deep-drilling expert provided by CIDA. Well services such as logging,
perforations, mud engineering, stimulation and testing would be contracted to
experienced and qualified international service organizations. Design and
engineering of the surface production and related facilities would be assigned
to Petro-Canada. The training program would be under the direction of a full
time training director whose appointment would be on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. CIDA's technical assistance program includes
the carrying out of reservoir studies of the Toot and Dhodak fields and the
feasibility study of the Dhodak project after its producing potential has been
determined.
Project Cost
4.12      The project is estimated to cost US$73.0 million of which US$55.0
or 75% represents the foreign exchange portion. Physical contingencies are



- 24 -
calculated on the basis of 10% against drilling, transport and studies, and
technical assistance, all of which are well defined in scope and cost, and
20% against the surface facilities for which less definitive data was avail-
able. The cost of consultants is based on an average rate of US$7,000 per
month. The price contingency is based on an 8% escalation during FY1978,
7-1/2% during FY1979 and 7% during FY 1980. The estimated project costs are
summarized below. Annex 4.01 give a more detailed breakdown of the various
component costs.
In R's million                In US$ million
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
Toot Development Program  116.0       412.1      528.1    11.7        41.6       53.3
Dhodak Studies                4.0       16.0      20.0      0.4        1.6        2.0
Training and Management
Consultants                 2.0       8.0       10.0      0.2        0.8        1.0
Customs Duty                 15.8        -        15.8      1.6         -         1.6
Basic Cost Estimate         137.8     436.1      573.9    13.9        44.0       57.9
Physical Contingency         16.6       49.5      66.1      1.8        5.0        6.8
Price Contingency            19.6      59.4       79.0      2.3        6.0        8.3
Estimated Project Cost    174.0       545.0      719.0    18.0        55.0       73.0
Project Financing Plan
4.13      The total estimated cost of the project, US$75 million equivalent,
including physical and price contingencies, is expected to be funded from
the following sources:
US$ million           %
(equivalent)
GOP 1/                                   18.0              25
OGDC 2/                                   5.0               7
IDA                                     30.0               41
ODM                                      12.0              16
CIDA                                     8.0               11
73.0             100
1/   Local funds required for the project will be provided by the GOP
exclusively.
2/   Use of drilling rig purchased by OGDC with its own funds.



- 25 -
4.14      Both the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and
the British Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) would participate in financing
the foreign exchange expenditures of the project. CIDA has allocated US$8
million to the Toot Project out of a total financing package of approximately
US$60 million which would finance other activities by OGDC in the petroleum
sector. ODM will contribute US$12 million, and the remaining will be met by
an IDA Credit of US$30 million.
4.15      The IDA credit would be assigned to the GOP who would onlend them to
OGDC at a per annum interest rates of 10 percent. It is proposed that OGDC' s
repayments to the GOP be in accordance with the production related scheduled
described in para 5.15. OGDC has started drilling three of the seven produc-
tion wells, two of which are being drilled with expatriate crews furnished by
a drilling contractor who was selected on the basis of the Association's
guidelines for international competitive bidding. By Board presentation OGDC
is expected to have disbursed US$2.5 million toward the mobilization and day
rate cost of these crews. This sum would be retroactively financed from the
credit.
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
4.16      The proposed IDA credit of US$30.0 million would finance 100% of
the foreign exchange costs listed in Annex 4.03. Disbursement from
the proceeds of Credit account would be made on the following basis:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for expatriate drilling crews.
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods;
(c) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally
manufactured equipment/materials procured through ICB;
(d) 70% of local expenditures for goods procured locally
other than through ICB; and
(e) 100% of expenditures for consultant's services, and 100%
of foreign exchange expenditures for studies and training.
The credit would be fully disbursed by December 31, 1981 in accordance with
the projected disbursement schedule in Annex 4.02.
Procurement
4.17      Goods and services financed under the proposed IDA credit would
be procured in accordance with Association guidelines except that equipment or
materials estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 and not
exceeding in the aggregate US$3,000,000 may be procured in accordance with
OGDC's normal competitive procurement procedures which are acceptable to the
Association. OGDC should record and report the status of disbursement against
such purchases on a quarterly basis or at any other interval that the Associa-
tion may reasonably request. The CIDA and ODM financing would be tied to



- 26 -
procurement in Canada and the UK respectively requiring 2/3 value added
content in the goods and services purchased. With prior Bank approval, well
services amounting to a total of about US$5,000,003 and knownm co be performed
by only a limited number of international firms, may be procur-^-  through
international shopping. Qualified local suppliers participating in inter-
national competitive bidding would be accorded a preference of 15% or the
prevailing duty rate whichever is lower.  Bid invitation and ev:aluation would
be the responsibility of OGDC with assistance of consultants.
Refinery Expansion
4.18      All crude oil production from the Potwar area is processed in AOC's
refinery at Rawalpindi.  At present its maximum capacity is about 10-11,000
BPD, but according to POL and OGDC forecasts future productior, from the area
is likely to reach 30,000 BPD. Since it is not economically feasible to
transport the entire surplus production to the Karachi refineries, throughput
at the Rawalpindi refinery will have to be increased by about 20,000 BPD. AOC
had deferred additional refinery investments pending the outcome of its nego-
tiations with the GOP on ownership of the refinery and related issues.  Under
terms of an agreement entered into with the GOP during November 1978, AOC will
expand refining capacity to 30,000 BPD and will accept up to lO,000 BPD crude
oil from the Toot field. This arrangement is satisfactory to the Association.
Project Risks
4.19      The Toot oil field presents difficult drilling conditions, and
it requires experience and skill to cope with them. OGDC has a good safety
record at Toot, but it has experienced several technical failures which to a
large extent can be attributed to poor materials and inadequate equipment.
The modern deep drilling equipment now at its disposal along with the help of
a drilling expert and experienced crews provided under the proposed credit
should minimize such risks and provide OGDC with the basis for a successful
drilling program.
4.20      In addition, there is also the possibility that the field may not
live up to expectations.  Reservoir behavior can never be fully credicted,
and fields have been known to go dry before the anticipated oil was recov-
ered. However, this is considered a minimum risk since the evaluation of
recoverable reserves and of future production schedules are very conserva-
tive given the limited amount of information presently available,  There
is a good probability that future drilling could lead to an increase in the
amount of recoverable reserves and productivity.
Ecology and Safety
4.21      OGDC's pollution and fire prevention practices during well drill-
ing operations are standard for the petroleum industry and are satisfactory.
Drilling crews undergo fire safety training.  Periodic fire drills are held
at rigs to emphasize the importance of this training. Blowout prevention
equipment is installed on all wells in accordance with instrucz-icns in the



- 27 -
well's drilling manual. A fire truck and fire fighters are on duty on a 24
hour basis at each field. Hydrogen sulfide, an extremely toxic gas frequently
present in petroleum deposits, is monitored at the mud degassing units and
drilling crews are automatically alerted to hazardous concentrations. The
only potential environmental pollutants are rig refuse such as wash water,
lubricants and discarded mud. These are collected in waste pits which are
allowed to dry by evaporation and then covered with earth. Oil production
facilities on the small scale of OGDC's operations present only minimal
pollution and safety problems.
Schedule and Reporting
4.22      The proposed project is scheduled to be completed by mid-1980 ex-
cept for the training program which would extend on through the end of 1981.
A project schedule showing timing of the major components is shown in Annex
4.04. OGDC has assured the Association that it will submit quarterly progress
reports in an acceptable format. OGDC has also agreed to maintain a set of
indicators to monitor its performance.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
OGDC's Past Financial Performance and Present Position
5.01      OGDC's activities have been until now predominantly confined to oil
and gas exploration. Its past production has averaged less than 2,000 barrels
per day of crude oil and 15 million cubic feet per day of natural gas together
with minor amounts of condensate. The realized sales price for this output
has in the past been as low as USd70-80 per barrel of crude. After deduction
of production costs, the net income from the sale of oil and gas has been
insignificant and has contributed essentially nothing to OGDC's cash flow
requirements. A summary of these requirements for the period between FY74
and FY77 is given below.



- 28 -
Tentative
Fiscal Year Ending June 30                 1974      1975      1976        1977
US$ Millions         US$ Millions
Requirements for Funds
Drilling and Exploration Cost             3.0       3.3       5.4         9.8
Overheads                                 2.3       2.5       2.7         4.8
Net Sales and Other Receipts             (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)         (0.2)
Total Deferred Cost                       5.2       5.7       8.0        14.4
Net Fixed Assets                         (0.1)      0.6       4.2        26.4
Working Capital                           5.1       7.5       4.7         4.1
Investments                               0.4       0.1       0.1         0.1
Loan Amortization                         0.9       3.4       3.2         2.9
Total Requirements                         11.5      17.3      20.2        47.9
Sources of Funds
GOP Equity Contribution                  10.5      17.3      19.9        40.4
Workers' Gratuity Funds                   0.1        -        0.2         3.8
Long Term Borrowing                       0.9        -        0.1         3.7
Total Sources                              11.5      17.3      20.2        47.9
5.02      Since OGDC's inception in 1961, the Government of Pakistan has con-
tributed to it a total of about US$130 million in the form of equity. These
contributions have accelerated since 1973 and the reorganization of OGDC in
1975: the amounts increasing as shown in the table above, and reflecting the
increased emphasis in government policy on development of proven reserves
and the need to accelerate exploration. Only a small proportion of OGDC's
financial requirements in recent years have been derived from internal cash
generation and external credit sources.
5.03      Within the past few years, some change has occurred in the alloca-
tion of funds by OGDC. Prior to 1975, OGDC relied on its increasingly obso-
lete drilling and exploration equipment. Beginning in FY76 commitments were
made to purchase new equipment; capital outlays on new rigs absorbed almost
50% of the corporation's available funds in the past fiscal year.
5.04      Financially, OGDC has operated essentially as a project account.
The Corporation has generated little operating revenue and most expendi-
tures have been allocated to, and accumulated in, fixed asset or deferred



- 29 -
cost accounts. The historical nature of OGDC as primarily a drilling and
exploration entity, together with the anticipated impact of Toot and subse-
quent projects on the scope and scale of OGDC's operations, makes it neces-
sary to analyze the Corporation's financial situation almost entirely on
the basis of i_s future plans and programs.
5.05      A summary of OGDC's financial position in FY73 through FY76 and
of its estimated position as of June 30, 1977 is given below:
Tentative
Fiscal Year Ending June 30              1973   1974   1975   1976         1977
US$ Millions         US$ Millions
Assets
Deferred Cost:
Drilling and Exploration             33.1   38.3   44.0   52.0          66.4
Net Fixed Assets                       3.3    3.2    3.8    8.0         34.4
Net Current Assets                    16.2   21.3   28.8   33.5         37.6
Investments                           0.1    0.5    0.6    0.7           0.8
Total Assets                      52.7   63.3   77.2   94.2         139.2
Liabilities
Equity                               39.2   49.7   67.0   86.9         127.3
Workers' Gratuity Funds                0.4    0.5    0.5    0.7          4.5
Long-term Liabilities                 13.1   13.1    9.7    6.6          7.4
Total Liabilities                 52.7   63.3   77.2   94.2         139.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                       25/75  21/79  13/87  7/93         5/95
5.06      Virtually all of the exploration and drilling costs incurred by
OGDC since its establishment remain in its accounts under a deferred cost
heading.  The accumulated account now (end FY 77) totals about US$66 million
of which US$14 million relates to the Toot field.  To the extent that OGDC
earns net operating revenues in the future, a portion of its past unsuccess-
ful drilling costs can be charged to the annual accounts and, accordingly,
reduce the Corporation's future tax liabilities. However, because of time
limitations permitted on the carrying forward of aborted exploration and
drilling costs, it is evident that certain outlays incurred by OGDC in the
early stages of its development may no longer be used as offsets to future
income. These costs should now be offset against the corporation's equity.
As previously indicated (para. 3.09) OGDC has agreed to review the relevant
accounts and to revise its accounting practices in accordance with oil in-
dustry standards, starting in late 1978.



- 30 -
5.07      The results for June 30, 1977, though preliminary, indicate that
no significant change has as yet taken place in the nature of OGDC's opera-
tions. The debt/equity ratio remains low by conventional standards but
reflects the realities of financing predominantly exploration activity as
well as the non-availability of internally generated revenues to support a
significant debt load. OGDC's present long-term debt is largely comprised
of loans from the USSR for equipment and technical assistance, and of some
loan assistance recently provided by the Pakistan National Development Finance
Corporation.
Financial Analysis of the Proposed Toot Project
5.08      Development of the Toot field will provide OGDC with the first
opportunity to make a modest but significant contribution to domestic oil
production.  The following summarizes the results of a discounted cash flow
analysis of the proposed development and of the mission's projected accounts
for the Toot field.
(a) Financial viability of the project
5.09      The financial viability of the Toot project 1/ is a function of
the level of the payments that will be made to OGDC for the oil produced
from project wells. The GOP has agreed to ensure that OGDC will earn a net
of taxes (discounted cash flow) real rate of return on its investment in
the project of not less than 10% (DCA Section 3.02).
5.10      Although adequate well-head pricing of Toot crude would be the best
means to achieve this end, this course may be precluded by the GOP's intention
to maintain oil price parity for all "old" oil produced in the Potwar area,
i.e., oil from fields that were in production before the rapid escalation of
prices beginning in 1973. Since it is now likely that Toot crude will be
priced at parity with this "old" oil, the Government has agreed to ensure
that, should it be required to achieve the agreed return, a supplementary
payment per unit of production will be made to OGDC for the oil and gas
produced at Toot. This payment would be in addition to the revenue directly
realized from the sale of Toot project crude. The Government has also agreed
to review periodically the payment structure so that, under conditions of
efficient operation and within the limits set by international prices, the
real rate of return would be maintained at 10% (DCA Section 3.02).
5.11      The wellhead prices for Toot project oil which would result in a
real discounted cash flow return on the investment of 5%, 10% and 15% are
as shown in the table below for the base case (characterized by Core Labora-
tories' most likely estimate of recovery of oil in place and of capital
expenditure estimates made by the Association) and for a possible best case
and worst case as defined in the table (see also Annex 5.01).
1/   The term here refers to the incremental development of the Toot field
and includes all direct and indirect investments related to this devel-
opment.



- 31 -
Real (DCF) Rate of Return
Required Price of Oil per Barrel - US 1977 $
5%                   10%                    15%
Base Case 1/                     6.70                   7.80                   8.90
Best Case 2/                     4.20                   4.90                   5.60
Worst Case 3/                    8.80                  10.30                  11.80
5.12      These results are all based on a projection of production from seven
wells using flow rate estimates derived from the Core Laboratories reservoir
study (para. 4.05). The analysis also assumes that no taxes will be due
during the productive lifetime of the field, but that a royalty of 12.5% of
well-head value will be paid by OGDC throughout the period. Including pro-
vision for tax payments at a 50% rate would lead to an average increase in the
required price of about 10%.
5.13      As shown in the rate of return summary (and the graph in Annex 5.01),
the wellhead price for Toot project crude required, in these projections, to
achieve the sought return could range (at 1977 prices) from $4.90 to $10.30
per barrel, depending on the proportion of future recovery of the oil in place
and on capital expenditure costs. The well head price most likely to yield
this return is presently judged by the Association to be of the order of
US$7.80 per barrel. In the event that the project proceeds as expected, this
price would be just sufficient to cover all costs, including the 10% cost of
the capital employed. The breakdown of the cost of crude oil per barrel in
this Base Case is as shown in the table below. A detailed cash flow analysis
of the project which takes account of the effect of inflation on revenues
and costs is shown in Rupees in Annex 5.02.
Cost of Oil per Barrel - 1977 US$ 4/            %
Operating and Working Capital Cost             0.70                              9
Capital Expenditure                            6.20                             80
Royalties                                      0.90                             11
Total                                     7.80                           100
1/   The Base Case assumes 15% recovery of oil in place in the Toot reservoir
(Core Lab's most likely estimate) and final capital cost estimated by
the mission.
2/   The Best Case assumes 20% recovery of oil in place (Core Lab's maximum
estimated amount) and a 15% underrun in capital expenditures.
3/   The Worst Case assumes 13% recovery of oil in place (Core Lab's minimum
estimated amount) and a 15% overrun in capital expenditure.
4/   Defined as the ratio of the net present value of the cash flow stream
to the net present value of the production, both discounted at 10%.



- 32 -
5.14      The Government has recently negotiated with AOC a revised price
of about US$$4.50 equivalent per barrel for its "old" Potwar oil. Therefore,
if as expected the well-head price of Toot crude is soon to be set also at
this level, a supplementary government payment to OGDC, amounting most likely
to about US$3.30 per barrel, will be required to achieve the agreed 10% real
rate of return.
(b) Project Financing Plan
5.15      The incremental development of Toot would require a capital invest-
ment of US$67 million which would be largely financed by debt: the proposed
US$29.3 million 1/ in IDA Credit, together with US$20 million equivalent in
bilateral aid from CIDA and ODM (see following table and Annex 5.02, p 3).
The following analysis assumes that all these funds will be onlent by the
Government to OGDC, in the case of the IDA Credit at 10% interest and of the
funds from CIDA and ODM at 8.5%. Given the level of total borrowing and the
projected depletion rate of the field, it would be prudent for OGDC to repay
all these funds from production revenues on a scale that would see the total
debt repaid before the field is depleted. The Association, therefore, recom-
mended that OGDC be asked to service its debt to the Government on an annual
basis on terms whereby debt service payments would be pro-rated to production
from the Toot project. 2/ Since the adoption of such a repayment schedule
would represent a departure from the usual Government practice of requiring
level total repayments of onlent funds, this recommendation has been referred
to the Accounting Division of the Finance Ministry for its consideration.
(c) Overall Toot Field Accounts
5.16      OGDC has had to date three producing wells at Toot.  A fourth well,
expected to become a producer, is presently being completed. The incremental
development of the field, as envisaged in the Toot project, would add seven
producing wells and one step-out. Should no additional reserves be proven
at Toot, the productive lifetime of the field is not expected to extend
beyond fiscal 1992.
5.17      Financial projections in the form of OGDC Toot field accounts are
summarized below, detailed statements are given in Annex 5.02.  These fore-
casts assume base case estimates of capital expenditures and of the oil
recovery factor (para. 5.11), and payment of US$7.80 per bbl for crude oil
from Toot project wells.  The price of oil produced from wells completed
1/   The remaining US$0.7 million of the credit would go to OGTI.
2/   A suitable repayment scheme (one which has been assumed in the following
financial projections) would take each yearly loan repayment to equal
the value of the year's production multiplied by the ratio of the net
present value of the loan payments to the net present value of the
forecasted oil production, both discounted at the interest rate of the
loan.



- 33 -
before the project is taken to be US$3.00 per barrel through FY1978 (the
price presently being earned) and US$4.50 thereafter (the price expected
as a result of the recently concluded AOC negotiations). The current price
of US47 per MCF has been used for the associated gas produced. These oil and
gas price estimates are in 1977 dollars; in the projected statements they are
adjusted for inflation. The inflation rate assumed is 8.0% for 1978, 7.5% for
1979 and 7.0% for 1980 onwards.
5.18      Estimated requirements for the Toot field operation and the sources
from which they will be met are given below:
1978-80   1981-83   1984-86   1987-89   1990-92
-------------    US$ Mi]llions--
Requirements for Funds
Capital Outlays /1                71          1          -          -          -
Working Capital                    (1)       26         11          7          1
Dividends                           3        25         16          8          3
Total Requirements              73         52         27         15          4
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation          24         66         42         23          6
Less Debt Service                   8        30         15          8          2
Net Internal Cash Generation  16           36         27         15          4
Long Term Borrowing                33        16          -          -          -
OGDC Equity                       24          -          -          -          -
Total Sources                   73         52         27         15          4
Debt Service Coverage             3.0        2.2        2.8        2.9        3.0
/1   Includes the cost of rig hire (for rigs provided for Toot operations
by OGDC).
5.19      In the initial three-year period (FY1978 to FY1980), capital expendi-
ture is shown to represent 97% of the total requirements for funds. These are
provided for through borrowing (45%), by net internal cash generation (22%)
and an assumed OGDC equity contribution of $24 million (33%). Beyond FY81,
net internal cash generation is shown to provide all of the requirements for
funds, which include the dividends assumed paid to OGDC (para 5.23) as well as
the projected increase in working capital.



- 34 -
5.20      The projected increase in working capital of about $44 million over
the lifetime of the field represents the redemption in the form of cash and
bank balances of the totality of the equity invested in the Toot field for
both exploration and development since its inception.  Should more reserves
be proven these funds could provide for the further development of the Toot
field. They could otherwise, as has been assumed in the following projections
of the corporations consolidated accounts, be used to provide a supplement for
other OGDC operations.
5.21      At the level of payment assumed for Toot project crude, in spite of
the envisaged high proportion of debt financing of the incremental Toot
development, debt service coverage remains adequate throughout the field's
lifetime.
5.22      Estimated operating results for the Toot field operations for the
period between FY78 and FY92 are given below:
1978-80  1981-83  1984-86  1987-89  1990-92
Production
Crude Oil (mill. bbl)
Toot Wells 1, 4, 6 & 7                  2.5      1.8       0.9       0.4        -
Toot Project Wells                      1.7       6.5      3.4       1.6       0.4
Natural Gas (bill. cu. ft.)
Toot Wells 1, 4, 6 & 7                  7.4       5.3      2.6       1.1        -
Toot Project Wells                      5.3     19.5      10.2       4.9       1.3
US$ Millions
Operating Revenues
Crude Oil                               29       81        51        29         9
Natural Gas and Other Income             2        2         2         1         -
Total Revenues                        31       83        53        30         9
Operating Expenses
Operating Administrative
and Training Costs                       3        7         5         3         2
Depreciation/Depletion                  13       41        22        13         3
Royalties                                4       10         6         4         1
Total Operating Expenses             20        58        33        20         6
Net Profit from Operations              11        25       20        10         3
Interest                                 1        7         4         2         -
Overall Profit/Loss                     10        18       16         8         3
Dividends Paid                           3        25       16         8         3
Operating Ratio (%)                     65        70       62        67        67



- 35 -
5.23      These results indicate that at the level of payments for crude which
are assumed, the operating ratio would be satisfactory throughout the period.
Provision could also be made in this case, for a total of US$55 million in
profits accrued between 1978 and 1992 to be transferred to OGDC as dividends
in support, together possibly with the accumulated cash and bank balances
(para 5.20), of its other development and exploration activities. Royalty
payments to the Government would also total about US$25 million in the same
period.
OGDC's Future Financial Prospects
5.24      Though modestly profitable, the development of the Toot field,
because of the small size of its reserves, cannot be expected to generate
sufficient funds to provide significant support for an expanded program of
exploration and development of the type envisaged by OGDC for the period
extending through FY1983 and including the five years between FY1979 and
FY1983 covered by the Government's Fifth Plan. The magnitude and charac-
teristics of OGDC's future financial requirements and financial prospects
will depend on the comparative profitability (relative to Toot) of its other
prospects for oil and gas development and production. Considering the many
interesting but unexplored sedimentary areas that are known to exist in the
country, it is generally felt that Pakistan should at least have the poten-
tial for self sufficiency in oil. With an expanded program of exploration
activity and the sophisticated oil prospecting equipment now available, the
near term prospects for a commercial find appear encouraging.
5.25      OGDC's discovery well at Dhodak, as has been mentioned (para. 4.02),
is of special significance. OGDC estimates the structure could produce
approximately 1,500 BPD per well. While additional drilling and testing
is required to establish the fields actual production potential, it is not
unreasonable to plan for its possible commercial exploitation. If Dhodak
lives up to expectation, OGDC's main efforts will have to be concentrated
on d'eveloping the field and installing the necessary oil and gas production
and pipeline facilities. On the other hand, if it should prove uneconomical
or not especially profitable to develop, primary emphasis must be put on
exploration until such time as a major commercial discovery is made, either
by OGDC or by one of the foreign concessionaires whose contract includes
provision for OGDC participation.
5.26      A six-year drilling and investment program, predicated on the
assumption that the Dhodak field will prove to be as profitable as is cur-
rently predicted, has been planned by OGDC to cover the period between FY1978
and FY83.  The detailed assumptions regarding the well drilling program,
somewhat modified by the Association to take account of its assessments of
the technical constraints, are summarized below:



- 36 -
Number of Wells
77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82   82/83   Total
Toot Development            1       5        3                                  9
Dhodak Development          1       3        3        4       4        4       19
Other Development           1       11       3        3       4        4       16
Exploration                 1       1        2        4       6        6      20
Total                 4       10       11      11       14       14      64
5.27      Even though it is to be expected that this drilling program will
be modified periodically to take account of new information on prospects and
reserves, the mission felt that it would be useful to analyze the possible
effect on OGDC's future financial position and prospects of the drilling
program as it is presently foreseen.
OGDC's Financing Plan
5.28      Should the drilling program be executed as shown above, OGDC's
projected overall financial requirements for the period FY78 through FY83,
along with the sources from which they could be met, is as summarized below;
detailed Sources and Applications of Funds Statements are given in Annex 5.03,
with explanatory notes in Annex 5.04, Page 2.
FY1978    FY 1979-83  FY 1978-83
Million US$ Million US$       %
Requirements for Funds
Capital Outlays - Toot                          9            58
Capital Outlays - Dhodak                       11           214
Other Development Drilling/
Facilities and Equipment                      4           119
Total Capital Outlays                               24          391       64
Exploration                                             9         171       28
Increase in Working Capital                            (3)         51        8
Increase in Investments                                -            1        -
Total Requirements                                  30          614      100
Sources of Funds
Net Internal Cash Generation                          (2)         205       31
GOP Equity Contribution                               32          158       30
Increase in Workers Funds                              -            1        -
Proposed Toot Project IDA Credit                -            30
Development Institutions                        -           130
Suppliers Credits and/or Commercial Loans    -               90
Total Borrowing                                      _          250       39
Total Sources                                    30          614     100
;



- 37 -
5.29      The financing plan assumes that the payment structure detailed
in para. 5.17 is adopted for Toot crude, and that the price earned on Dhodak
oil is US$12.50 per barrel (1977 dollars). This latter assumption is based
on the premise that the Dhodak crude could command a US$15.00 export price
because of its '-pecial characteristics and that the transportation cost to
Karachi would be about US$2.50. Gas prices are to be reviewed and would
have to be determined in the light of the pricing study recommended in para.
2.29 when more is known about Dhodak's potential. In this analysis prices of
US47 and USill per MCF have been assumed for gas production from Toot and
Dhodak respectively (see Annex 5.04, p 1).
5.30      At these assumed level of payments, total internal cash generation,
net of debt servicing, is projected to cover only 31% of OGDC's total require-
ment of funds in the period. This ratio is low but would increase significant-
ly after FY83 if production from Dhodak proves to be anywhere near the levels
currently projected and if commercially profitable production from the other
possible developments begins shortly after FY83. A substantial increase in
net internal cash generation would enable the corporation to assume gradually
the full cost of its exploration activity, as well as the portion of its
financial requirements for development not covered by borrowings. In the
period between FY79 and FY83, which coincides with the Government's Fifth
Plan, the Government's equity contribution, net of royalties paid to the
Government by OGDC, is projected to be of the order of US$110. This is
approximately equal to the expected OGDC expenditure on unsuccessful ex-
ploration.
5.31      The total requirements of funds is projected to total US$614 million
during the period covered by the Government's Fifth Plan. This figure is
about US$90 million larger than the amount requested by OGDC and substantially
larger (by about $240 million) than the amount currently allocated to OGDC in
the Plan. These projections have assumed, however, that the Government will,
as expected, reassess the level of OGDC's investment plan periodically in the
light of future developments, and that future modifications of the Plan would
take account of OGDC's improved ability to borrow commercially should the
profitability of Dhodak's development become more certain.
OGDC's Projected Financial Position
5.32      Projected financial statements from FY78 through FY83, predicated
on the assumptions regarding Dhodak's productivity and OGDC's drilling program
outlined above, are given in Annexes 5.01, 5.02 and 5.03 with explanatory
notes in Annex 5.04.
5.33      Although virtually all of the exploration and drilling costs in-
curred by OGDC since its establishment remain at present in its Balance
Sheet under a deferred cost account, in these projections (following the
accounting practices observed by the major oil companies), all of OGDC's
assumed unsuccessful drilling expenditures, as well as the related costs of
geological and geophysical surveys, are charged, beginning in FY78, to its



- 38 -
annual accounts in the same year in which they are incurred. Past expendi-
ture on unsuccessful drilling ventures is shown as a charge on equity in
the tentative Balance Sheet shown for FY77. As a result, the deferred cost
accounts shown on OGDC's Balance Sheets for FY77 through FY83 (Annex 5.03)
reflect the past as well as the future costs of productive assets resulting
from successful drilling ventures. This account has been written down to
the extent of the depletion assumed for both Toot and Dhodak. This approach
is consistent with OGDC plans to adopt oil industry standards starting in
1978 (para 5.06). A summary of OGDC's projected financial performance is
given below:
Year Ending June 30             1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Crude Oil Production (10  bbl)         0.6     1.5      2.1      5.7     8.9      9.5
Gas Production (10  cf)                1.7     4.6      6.4    33.9    69.3    79.6
Net grofit from Operations
(10  US$)                             (7)     (4)      (3)    26       75       98
Overall Profit/Loss (10  US$)         (16)    (19)    (16)    (7)       28       50
Operating Ratio (%)                   453     143      116      65      48       43
Rate of Return on Average
Invested Capital (%)                 (7.5)   (3.9)   (3.2)    9.3    27.7    30.8
Debt/Equity Ratio                       -     13/87   38/62   42/58   36/64   29/71
Current Ratio                          3.5     1.8      1.0      1.3     1.8      2.0
Debt.Service Coverage                  0.3     1.3      1.2      1.8     2.7      3.2
5.34      The results indicate that OGDC's overall financial position, taking
the six-year period as a whole would, if OGDC's plans proceed as projected,
be satisfactory. In the three-year period before production from Dhodak is
assumed to begin, and ignoring ongoing exploration costs, the rate of return
on average invested capital is negative, reflecting the comparatively small
production from Toot; but after FY78 the debt/equity ratios remain well within
accepted industry standards and debt service covering remains adequate.
5.35      Project financial performance would improve markedly in FY81 as a
result of the revenue which could be generated from expected Dhodak oil and
gas production. The rate of return on average invested capital would increase
sharply from -3.2% in FY80 to about 9.3% in FY81. In addition, the Corpora-
tion would be expected to experience for the first time in FY82 an overall net
profit inspite of the continuing heavy expenditures on explorations.



- 39 -
5.36      If Dhodak proves to be as commercially profitable a field as is at
present assumed, and if the funds allocated to OGDC in the Fifth Plan are
modified to take account of such a development, OGDC may well be on its way to
becoming by the end of the projection period, an increasingly self-sufficient,
financially viable and profitable petroleum development and exploration
company. The level of payment for Toot oil, agreed to in DCA Section 3.02,
would ensure that OGDC's financial position on its operations will be sound in
the intervening years.
Recommendations
5.37      The present residual uncertainty regarding the potential of the
Dhodak field precludes any attempt at this time to require that OGDC attain
specific oil industry financial performance standards within the next few
years. However, the Association should assist OGDC in setting up an anal-
ytical framework enabling the Corporation to make rational decisions and
adequately monitor its operations and financial performance. During negotia-
tions, agreement was reached on the following recommendations:
(i) OGDC would revise its accounting practices in accordance
with standards acceptable to the Assotiation and maintain
separate accounts for each of its fields (Section 4.01 of
the draft Project Agreement);
(ii) OGDC would submit to the Association each year, starting
January 1, 1980, a report presenting a financial evalua-
tion of the Took Project and an analysis of the financial
position and prospects of OGDC as a whole (Section 4.03
of the draft Project Agreement);
(iii) OGDC shall prepare and furnish to the Association, before
it undertakes any major development in the oil and gas
sector, an economic and financial analysis of the
proposed project (Section 4.04 of the draft Project
Agreement);
(iv) the GOP would ensure that OGDC would achieve a net of taxes
real rate of return on the project of not less than 10%
(Section 3.02 of the draft Credit Agreement); and
(v) the GOP shall consult with the Association on the scope
and adequacy of its petroleum sector investment program
and make available the funds and facilities required to
carry out such programs (Section 3.04 of the draft Credit
Agreement).



- 40 -
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Justification of Toot Development
6.01      The Toot Project is part of the least cost investment program to
meet the predicted growth in demand for petroleum products. The alternative
solution to Toot would be the import of crude oil at a higher unit cost.
Since domestic prices of petroleum products are roughly in line with interna-
tional prices (paragraph 2.21) import cost savings are a legitimate measure
of project benefits. The principal benefit derived from the development of
the Toot field is the production of crude oil at a lower unit cost (para 5.12)
than the equivalent import cost. Production from the Toot field will consist
of crude oil and a minor amount of associated gas. The total oil recovered
during the 15-year life of the field would be 15.3 million barrels (i.e.
US$200 million equivalent in 1977 crude oil prices).
Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
6.02      A rate of return has been calculated for the Toot Development
component of the project on an incremental basis with past investments con-
sidered as "sunk" costs. An economic price of US$15.25 per barrel of crude
oil is used in calculating the economic rate of return. This is based on the
1977 C.I.F. Karachi cost of imported crude oil of US$13.0, plus an adjustment
of US$2.25 for the rail transportation from Karachi to Islamabad, which rep-
resents the least cost, transportation mode for oil haulage within Pakistan.
The benefits derived from the natural gas produced are very small and are
not taken into account in calculating the economic rate of return. Simi-
larly, no allowance has been made for possible future LPG extraction.
6.03      The economic cost and benefit streams for the project area are
shown in Annex 6.01. The summary results from the economic rate of return
calculation and sensitivity analysis are shown below. The parameters chosen
in measuring the sensitivity of the project's rate of return are:
The Base Case: 15% recovery of oil in place in the Toot
reservoir (Core Lab's most likely estimate) and final
capital cost estimated by the mission.
The Best Case: 20% recovery of oil in place (Core Lab's
maximum estimated amount) and a 15% underrun in capital
expenditures.
The Worst Case: 13% recovery of oil in place (Core Lab's
minimum estimated amount) and a 15% overrun in capital
expenditure.
Intermediate Case 1: High oil recovery only.
Intermediate Case 2: 15% capital cost underrun only.
Intermediate Case 3: 15% capital cost overrun only.
Intermediate Case 4: Low oil recovery only.



- 41 -
Economic Rate of Return
Crude oil price in US$/barrel                         15.25
Base Case:                                             56%
Best Case:                                            100%
Worst Case:                                            37%
Intermediate Case 1:                                   82%
Intermediate Case 2:                                   69%
Intermediate Case 3:                                   46%
Intermediate Case 4:                                   46%
6.04      As indicated above, the economic rate of return for the base case,
assuming an economic price of US$15.25 per barrel is 56%. The economic rate
of return could with optimum conditions go as high as 100% and in the worst
case as low as 37%. Although the rate of return is sensitive to the varia-
tions of the sensitivity parameters, it remains satisfactory even under these
adverse assumptions.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations the following issues were raised with OGDC and
satisfactory assurances were obtained that:
(a) OGDC would employ an experienced management consultant
and would review the recommended improvements and their
implementation with the Association (para. 3.11);
(b) OGDC would submit audited accounts to the Association
within twelve months after the end of each fiscal year
(para. 3.12);.
(c) OGDC would provide adequate facilities for OGTI's proposed
training program (para. 4.09);
(d) OGDC would appoint a full time training director
(para. 4.11);
(e) OGDC would employ experience and qualified consultants
to carry out the various reservoir, seismic and geo-
physical studies at Toot and Dhodak and the Dhodak
feasibility study (para. 4.11);
(f) OGDC would submit quarterly progress reports to the
Association (para. 4.22);
(g) OGDC would revise its accounting practices and maintain
separate accounts for each field (para. 3.09);



- 42 -
(h) OGDC would consult the Association before undertaking
any major oil or gas development projects and would make
a financial analysis for any projects under consideration
in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory
to the Association.(para. 5.37); and
(i) OGDC would submit to the Association each year beginning
January 1, 1979 projections of its future financial posi-
tion and statements of its current situation (para. 5.37).
7.02      Assurances were obtained from the GOP during at negotiations that:
(a)  GOP would undertake an energy utilization, cost and pricing
study in accordance with terms of reference agreed to
with the Association; (para 2.30) and
(b) GOP would establish the amount to be paid to OGDC, if any,
in addition to receipts from the sale of oil and gas, for
oil and gas produced at Toot in order to ensure a DCF rate
of return on the project of at least 10% (para 5.14).
7.03      With satisfactory resolution of the items outlined above, the
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$30 million.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1.01 (A)
NATURAL GAS RESERVES IN PAKISTAN (in TCF)
Total pro-
Year of       Total       duction up
Gas Fields    Location         Discovery    Reserves   to 30/6/77        Balance
Sui            Baluchistan       1952         8.62           1.46          7.16
Sari           Sind              1956         0.03            -              -
Hundi          Sind              1970         0.05             -           0.05
Dhulian and                      1944 &
Meyal        Punjab            1968         1.37          1.19          0.18
Dhodak */      Punjab            1976         4.5              -           4.5
*/   Not yet fully evaluated.  This figure is a very preliminary estimate.
Source:  The Fifth Plan 1977-83, Planning Commission, Government of Pakistan.
ANNEX 1.01 (B)
OIL RESERVES IN PAKISTAN AS OF JUNE 30, 1976 (in 1,000 barrels)
Recover-                   Remaining
Oil in         Year of      able Oil   Cumulative    Recoverable
Field          Place         Discovery    Reserves   Production    Reserves
Dhulian         93,000         1934         41,800       39,528          3,972
Balkasar       140,000         1946         31,600       28,840          4,160
Joyamair        25,000         1944          5,400        4,249             701
Meyal **/      265,000 (E)    1968         166,000 (E)   6,415         159,585
Toot */        333,000         1968         52,000        2,300         49,700
Dhodak **/       NA            1976        200,000         -           200,000
*/   Based on CORE LAB reserve report.
**/ Unproved.
(E) Estimate.
Source: Energy Resources Cell, Government of Pakistan, Acres Energy Resource
Survey report, UNAIL Study.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2.01
Page 1 of 2
PRICING OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
Retail Prices:
The retail price changes that have taken place since November 1973
are shown below:
Table 1
Changes in the Prices
(In rupees)
1973-74                 1974-75           1975-76
Pre   Nov.  Jan.  Jan.   Feb.  Sept.   March   Dec.   Percentage
Nov.  20,   1,    8,       1,    29,      1976    1976   Increase
Item           1973  1973  1974  1974   1975  1975                        since Pre
1              2     3      4     5       6       7       8        9    Nov. 1973
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
(per imperial gallon)
100 octane          7.00  10.00  11.50  12.00  13.00  14.50   -         15.40       120
Regular Petrol      6.25   7.50   9.00   9.50  10.50  12.00   -          12.70       103
High speed Diesel
Oil               3.00   3.95   5.00   5.50   5.50   6.00   -          6.35       112
Kerosene            2.00   2.50   2.50   3.00   4.00   4.00   -           4.00      100
Light Diesel Oil   1.75   2.30   3.75   4.00   4.00   4.00   -            4.00      128
Furnace Oil (per
ton)               240    340    500    500    500    500   600         -         150
Source: Pakistan Economic Survey, 1976-77
A comparison of the current selling prices of refined petroleum
products shows the cross-subsidization pricing system that had been in effect
within Pakistan since 1966.  (See Table 2).  The implicit subsidies for kero-
sene and light diesel products vary between 15-30 percent depending on the
distribution point within the country.  Motor gasoline, however, is priced
substantially above the international prices for this products, and the tax
revenue generated, has been adequate until the current year to meet the sub-
sidizing of import deficit products, kerosene and diesel, as well as covering
shortfalls in the refinery operations and the inland freight margins.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2.01
Page 2 of 2
Pricing Formula
The elements which comprise the current price formula for petroleum
products are:
(i) ex-refinery price;
(ii) excise/customs duty;
(iii) distributors' margin;
(iv) petroleum development surcharge 1/; and
(v) inland freight margin, out of which the marketing
companies recover actual transportation expenses.
The sum of these price elements provides the "fixed sales price" of each
petroleum product. Current fixed sale prices of the principal refined
products and the breakdown by each element in the price formula, are given
below:
Table 2
Cost Structure of Petroleum Prices per July 1, 1977 (in Rs/liter)
Distribu-
Customs/  Develop-    tion Margin    Inland    Fixed
Ex-     Excise    ment Sur-   plus Dealers   Freight   Sales
Refinery    Duty       charge       Commission    Margin    Price
Super Petrol            1.70        0.88       0.59           0.12          0.11       3.40
Regular Petrol          1.41        0.88       0.29           0.13          0.09       2.80
High Speed Diesel       1.00        0.25       0.02           0.05          0.08       1.40
Light Diesel Oil        0.70        0.04       0.01           0.03          0.12       0.90
Kerosene                0.71          -        0.01           0.03          0.13       0.88
Source: Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources.
1/   It is the differential margin between the sales price and the "prescribed
price" accruable to the oil marketing companies. It is a price stabil-
ization measure which may lead to Government revenue or refunds to
refineries, the latter being the case after world crude price increases
in 1973.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3.01
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Accounting and Management Information
1.        Prior to OGDC's reorganization in 1975, the budgeting and accounting
functions were carried out in a casual and unsophisticated manner. No consoli-
dated annual financial statements were prepared for the Corporation. Budgets
were developed for the entire operation but not for specific departments or
activities. Drilling costs, for example, which comprise a large share of OGDC
expenditures, were not budgeted on the basis of individual well costs and a
specific drilling program. In essence, the Corporation was treated as an
ongoing project entity, with the GOP directly providing most of the funds
required, and expenditures either devoted to the purchase of stores and
equipment and allocated to a fixed asset account or devoted to exploration
and drilling activities and capitalized in a deferred cost account.
2.        Since 1975, OGDC has undertaken to improve its accounting system
and to move toward oil industry standards. Historical accounts have been
reorganized and consolidated into annual financial statements and this work
program is virtually up to date. Monthly costs are now tabulated by well,
and by geological, seismic and gravity party, and budgets for FY1977-78 have
been prepared and segregated by functional department for the first time.
The Corporation is now implementing the use of computer facilities for
routine accounting jobs such as stores and payroll activities, and this
will be extended to other accounting functions later.
3.        In spite of improvements in this direction since 1975, OGDC's man-
agement information and controls system remains weak. Management information
that is regularly compiled and disseminatd within the organization is oriented
more toward providing operational information than to assessing performance.
A greater and more regular use of performance benchmarks seems desirable as a
means of identifying problem areas, improving accountability and control, and
upgrading functional capabilities.
4.        The present organizational structure of OGDC has served adequately
in the past but may require modification in view of the anticipated growth,
functional diversity, and locational dispersion of administrative and opera-
tional staff of the Corporation. For example, the proliferation of depart-
mental functions - with the result that nine department managers now report
directly to the chairman - may require an organizational restructuring in
order to improve the identification and separation of major functional depart-
ments vis-a-vis supportive staff activities.
5.        OGDC has benefited over the years from a number of training pro-
grams to improve the technical capabilities of its personnel, and additional
assistance is provided as part of the project. Little training assistance,



- 47 -
ANNEX 3.01
Page 2 of 2
however, has been available to OGDC in non-technical areas, and it is proposed
that management and accounting consulting services be included to address
potential problem areas. The following main activities are planned:
(i) review of OGDC's present organizational structure and
recommendations on its reorganization having regard to
the main areas of activity the Corporation will become
involved in, as well as the distribution of personnel
between Islamabad, Karachi and various field offices;
(ii) evaluation of the existing budget control system and
recommendations on improvements;
(iii) recommendations regarding improvement of OGDC's manage-
ment information system; and
(iv) evaluation of OGDC's accounting system in the context
of oil industry practices, and recommendations and
staff training regarding the implementation of improved
accounting procedures.
6.        The consulting effort will serve to complement the technical assis-
tance that is being directed to OGDC, by examining the Corporation's organi-
zational framework and management systems, and familiarizing finance and
accounting personnel with accounting practices peculiar to the petroleum
industry. The assignment is estimated to require about 14 man-months at an
estimated cost of US$100,000 equivalent.



- 48 -
ANNEX 4.01
PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
IN PR'S MILLION                    IN USS MILLION
LOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL       LOCAL       FOREIGN       TOTAL
TOOT DRILLING PROGRAM
Site Preparation                                2.0          ---          2.0         0.2          ---          0,2
Materials & Services                           43.6         231.7       275.3         4.4         23.4         27.8
Expatriate Labor                                6.9          34.7        41.6         0.7          3.5          4.2
Local Labor                                    18.8           _          18.8         1.9          ---          1.9
Geophysical & Reservoir Studies                 1.0           2.0         3.0         0.1          0.2          0.3
Drilling Consultant                             1.0           4.0         5.0         0.1          0.4          0.5
Use of Drilling Rigs                            ---          45.5        45.5         ---          4.6          4.6
Sub-Total                             73.3         317.9       391.2         7.4         32.1         39.5
TOOT SURFACE FACILITIES
Engineering                                     5.0           3.0         8.0         0.5          0.3         0.8
Production Facilities                           5.0          22.8        27.8         0.5          2.3          2.8
Civil Works                                    18.8           ---        18.8         1.9          ---         1.9
Gas Dehydration                                 1.0           8.0         9.0         0.1          0.8         0.9
Pipeline, Tank, Pumps, etc.                    10.9          33.7        44.6         1.1          3.4          4.5
Sub-Total                             40.7          67.5       10T8.        -                         IT-
LOGISTIC SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
Road Transport                                  1.0          10.9        11.9         0.1          1.1         1.2
Cargo Atrcraft                                  1.0          15.8        16.8         0.1          1.6         1.7
Sub-Total                              2.0          26.7        28.7         0.2          2.7          2.9
DHODAK STUDIES
Seismic Survey                                  2.0           8.0        10.0         0.2         0.8          1.0
Reservoir Evaluation                            ---           2.0         2.0         ---         0.2          0.2
Project Preparation                             2.0           6.0         8.0         0.2         0.6          0.8
Sub-Total                              4.0          16.0        20.0         0.4          1.6          2.0
Assistance to OGTI                              2.0           7.0         9.0         0.2         0.7          0.9
Mgmt. & Acct. Consultant                        ---           1.0         1.0         ---          0.1         0.1
Customs Duty                                   15.8           ---        15.8         1.6         ---          1.6
Sub-Total                             17.8           8.0        25.8         1.8          0.8          2.6
Basic Cost Estimate (BCE)                     137.8         436.1      573.9        13.9         44.0         57.9
Physical Contingency (PC) 2/                   16.6          49.5        66.1        1.8          5.0          6.8
Price Contingency (13% of BCE + PC)            19.6          59.4        79.0        2.3          6.0          8.3
Estimated Project Cost                        174.0         545.0       719.0       18.0         55.0         73.0
1/  Phys. Cont. = 10% Drilling & Transport & Studies) = 12
20% Surface Facilities
Source: OGDC
Mission Estimate



- 49 -
ANNEX 4.02
PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                        at End of Quarter
and Quarter                              (US$ '000)
1978/79
June 30, 1979                          4,000
1979/80
September 30, 1979                     9,000
December 31, 1979                     13,000
March 31, 1980                        17,000
June 30, 1980                         19,000
1980/81
September 30, 1980                   21,000
December 31, 1980                     23,000
March 31, 1981                        25,500
June 30, 1981                         27,000
1981/82
September 30, 1981                   29,000
December 31, 1981                    30,000



- 50 -
ANNEX 4.03
PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF LOANS 1/
IDA     ODM     CIDA      TOTAL
(US$ Million Equivalent)
DRILLING PROGRAM
Equipment & Materials                       12.4    6.0               18.4
Expatriate Labor & Well Services             8.5             --        8.5
SURFACE FACILITIES
Engineering                                 ---     ---      0.3       0.3
Production Facilities                        1.2    2.2      -         3.4
Gas Processing                               -      ---       0.8      0.8
Gathering System                            ---     1.1                1.1
Pipeline                                     1.2    ----               1.2
LOGISTIC SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
Heavy Duty Rig Transport                             --      1.1       1.1
Cargo Aircraft                              ---     ---      1.6       1.6
STUDIES
Toot Reservoir Evaluation                           --       0.2       0.2
.Dhodak Seismic Survey                               ---      0.8       0.8
Dhodak Reservoir Evaluation                         ---       0.2      0.2
Dhodak Project Preparation                                    0.6      0.6
MANAGEMENT & TRAINING PROGRAM
Drilling Consultant                         ---     ---       0.4      0.4
OGOC Management Training                    ---              0.1       0.1
OGTI Assistance                              0.7         ---           0.7
Sub-total                    24.0    9.3       6.1     39.4
Physical & Price Contingencies               6.0    2.7      1.9      10.6
TOTAL                        30.0   12.0       8.0     50.0
1/ Includes grants by ODM & CIDA and excludes additional CIDA support for
the Toot Project and the Petroleum sector.



PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SCHEDULE
YEARS       1977                  1978                           1979                           1980
ACTIVITIES                 OUARTERS   31d 4th    Ist      2nd    3rd    4th    1st    2nd    3rd    4th    1st    2nd    3rd    4th
TOOT RESERVOIR EVALUATION
DRILLING LABOR CONTRACT                         M           *
DRILLING SERVICES& MATERIALS                                        0  0 . ....... ..................S
DRILLING CONSULTANTS                                        *       o D
LOGISTIC SUPPORT                                                            *
PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT                                           O                                      * ..     . .............
DEHYDRATION UNIT                                                                      *       n
STORAGE TANKS                                                                         *          0               0
PIPELINE & ACCESSORIES                                                                *          a
ENGINEERING                                                                  *]
CONSTRUCTION & INSTALLATION                                  .                    *
TOOT DRILLING
RIG 1 IN-3)                                        Well No9             11                13                 15
RIG 2 (N-4)                                                   10                 12                14
RIG 3 (303)                                                       8
TOOT RESERVOIR STUDY                                                     *      D
DHODAK SEISMIC SURVEY                                    *    0
DHODAK DRILLING
RIG 1 (N-2)                                        Well No2        4                6              8              10
RIG 3 (N-55)                                        3_5_7_9__   11
DHODAK RESERVOIR STUDY                                           *     0
D3HODAK FEASIBILITY STUDY
OGTI ASSISTANCE                   l 
*   Tender or Inquiry Ready
o   Award of Contract or Placement of Order
*   Delivery or Mobilization                                                                                                    World Bank - 18405



- 52 -
ANNEX 5.01
PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CRUDE OIL PRICES VS FINANCIAL RATE OF
RETURN OF THE TOOT PROJECTS1
12.0
10.0S
- 8.0
S.0
-v~~~-
4.0
Ij Assumes no income tax payments are due to GOP but 12.5%
royalty will be paid. Including tax would increase the required price
on the average by about 9% and exciuding royalty reduce the price
2.0                                        by about 15% on the average.
0                                      5                                     10                                   15
REAL RATE OF RETURN (%)
EXPLANATION:
Base Case: Assumes 15% recovery of oil in place in the Toot Reser-
voir and final capital cost is as estimated.
Best Case: Assumes 20% recovery (maximum estimated amount) of
oil in place and a 15% underrun in capital expenditures.
- Worst Case: Assumes 13% recovery (minimum estimated amount) of
oil in place and a 15% overrun in capital expenditures.
Intermediate Cases: These show the affect on required oil prices if
either the recovery factor or the capital expenditure vary from the
Base Case.
Source: Bank Staff                                                                                                      World Bank - 18863



- 53 -
ANNEX 5.02
Page 1 of 4 P-S'.
INCREMENTAL TOOT DEVELOPMENT
IN MILLIONS OF RUPEES
FINANCIAL NOMINAL RATE OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT
77/78    78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84   84/B85   85/86   86/87   87/87   98/89   89190   90/91   91/92
INFLATION                   1.05      1.13     1.21      1.30     1.39      1.49      1.59    1.70    1.82    1.95    2.08    2.23 ] 2,39    2.55    2.73
PRODUCTION
OIL(INLL. BARRELS)             -      0.54     1.24      2.55     2.19      1.74      1.40    1.11    0.89    0.72    0.58    0.34    0.18    0.14    0.12
GASIBILL.CU.FT.)               -      1.62     3.72      7.65     6.57      5.22      4.20    3.33    2.67    2.16    1.74    1.02    0.54    0.42    0.36
PRICES
OIL(RUPEES/BARREL)         80.69    87.15    93.68   100.25   107.26   114.77   122.80  131.40  140.60  150.44  160.97  172.24  184.29  197.20  211.00
GAS(RUPEES/TNOU.CU.FT.)    0.72       0.78     0.84      0.90     0.96      1.03      1.10    1.18    1.26    1.35    1.44    1.55    1.65    1.77    1.89
REVENUES
CRUDE GIL                      -    47.06   116.16   255.64   234.90   199.70   171.92  145.85  125.13  108.32   93.36   58.56   33.17   27.61   25.32
NATURAL GAS                    -      1.26     3.12      6.89     6.31      5.38     4.62    3.93    3.36    2.92    2.51    1.58    0.89    0.74    0.68
MISCELLANEOUS                  -         -    12.01         -        -         -         -       -        -       -       -        -        -       _        _
TOTAL REVENUES               -    48.32   131.29   262.53   241.21   205.08   176.54  149.78  128.49  111.24   95.87   60.14   34.06   28.35   26.00
EXPENSES
OPERATING EXPENSES
OPERATING COST                 -      3.20     7.89    17.37    15.96    13.57    11.68    9.91    8.50    7.36    6.34    3.98    2.25    1.88    1.72
ADRINISTRATIVE COST            -      1.12     2.40      2.57     2.75      2.94     3.15    3.37    3.61    3.86    4.13    4.42    4.73    5.06    5.41
OFR ADM A TRO COST           -      4.32    10.29    19.94    18.71    16.51    14.83   13.28   12.11   11.22   10.47    8.40    6.98    6.94    7.13
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS
WELLS PRODUCING            58.97   223.46   170.55          -        -         -         -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       _
WELLS STEP OUT             13.45    37.99         -         -         -        -         -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -
DRILLING PROGRAM            8.28         -        -      3.86        _         _        _
SUBTOTAL DRILLING        80.70   261.45   170.55       3.86                           -
ROAD TRANSPORT                 -    15.64         -         -                       -        -       -        -       -        -       -            -       -
AIR TRANSPORT                  -      8.94        -         -             -         -        -       -        -       -        -       -            -       -
SURFACE fACILITIES             -    30.17    56.45       6.43        -         -         -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       _
PIPELINE                       -    33.52    31.23          -        -         -         -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -
SUBTOTAL FAC S E8U           -    88.27    87.68       6.43        -         -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -
TOTAL CAP. COST          80.70   349.72   258.23    10.29          -         -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -
WORKINb CAPITAL
,INCREASE IN INVENT.            -      3.02         -        -        -         -         -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -   13.02)
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE          113.45)  (44.84)   15.25    41.33       1.72         -         -       -       -        -       -        -   -  -         -       -
ACCOUNTS RECEIVAbLE            -      8.05    13.83    21.88    (3.56)   16.02)   (4.76)  (4.46)  (3.55)  12,88)  (2.56)  (5,96) (4.34)  10.96)  (0.40)
TOTAL WORK. CAP.        (13.45)  (33.77)   29.08    63.21    (1.84)   (6.02)   14.761  (4.46)  13.55)  12.81)  (2.56)  (5.96) (4.34)  0.96)  13.421
ROYALTIES                      -      5.88    14.52    31.96    29.36    24.96    21.49   18.23   15.64   13.54   11.67    7.32    4.15    3.45    3.17
TOTAL EXPENSES           67.25   326.15   312.12   125.40    46.23    35.45    31.56   27.05   24.20   21.89   19.58    9.76    6.79    9.43    6.88
NET CASN FLOW             (67.251 (277.03) (180.83)  137.13   194.98   169.63   144.98  122.73  104.29   89.36   76.29   50.38   27.27   18.92   19.12
, ...._. ........  ....... ......... ...... ...... ... ....0. .. .... ......... .. . 0.....  ......    ........  ......    ........  ......    . .... ......  ........ .......----
ACCUNULATED NPV,  10%    (61.14) (290.75) (426.61) (332.95) (211.88) (116.13)  (41.73)  15.52   59.75   94.20  120.94  136.99  144.89  149.87  154.45
ACCUNULATED NPV. 1tX      (58.48) 1268.56) (387.46) (309.06) (212.12) (138.78)  (14.28) (44.16) (14.51)   7.58   23.98   33.40   47,63   40.50   42.05
ACCUMULATED NPV, 205      156.04) (248.98) 1353.63) 1287.50) 1209.14) (152.33) (111.87) (83.33) 163.12) (48.69) (39.42) (32.77) (30.22) (28.75) (27.51)
...... ....... .-  .-....-a--a- ........... .......- ...... -......... ........ ...... ..-... .
NonINAL RATE OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT  - 17.8%
aPEFLATED NET CASN FLOW   (64.35) (246.17) (149.05)  105.63   140.37   114.13    91,17   72.13   57.28   45.87   36.60   22.59   11.43    7.41    7.00
REAL RATE OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT - 10.0 X
DIt.: Novecber 21, 1978



- 54 -
ANNEX 5.02
Page 2of 4 pag.
OGDC
TOOT FIELD
STATEMENTS OF INCOME
IN MILLIONS OF RUPEES
77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/35  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91192
INFLATION                          1.05   1,13   1.21   1.30   1.39   1,49   1.59   1.70   1.82   1.95   2.08   2.23   2.39   2.55   2.73
PRICE OLD OIL                      31.1   50.3   54.0   57.8   61.9   66.2   70.8   75.8   81.1   86.8   92.9   99.4             -       -      -
PRICE PROJ OIL                     80.7   87.2   93.7  100.3  107.3  114.8  122.8  131.4  140.6  150.4  161.0  172.2  184.3  197.2  211.0
PRODUCTION
CRUDE OIL (MILL. BBL.)
TOOT SELLS 1467                     0.6    1,0    0.9    0.7    0.6    0.5    0.4    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1             -       -      -
TOOT PROJECT SELLS                    -    0.5    1.2    2.6    2.2    1.7    1.4    1.1    0.9    0.7    0.6    0.3    0.2    0.1    0.1
NATURAL GAS (BILL.CU.FT.)
TOOT SELLS 1467                     1.7    3.0    2.7    2.2    1.7    1.4    1.1    0.8    0.7    0.5    0.3    0.3             -       -      -
TOOT PROJECT SELLS                    -    1.6    3.7    7.7    6.6    5.2    4.2    3.3    2.7    2.2    1.7    1.0    0.5    0.4    0.4
OPERATING REVENUES
CRUDE OIL
TOOT SELLS 1467                      18      50     49      42      35     30      25     21      19      15     10       9      -       -      -
TOOT PROJECT SELLS                    -      47    116    256    235    200    172    146    125    108          93     59      33      28     25
NATURAL GAS
TOOT WELLS 1467                       1       2       2      2       2      1       1      1       1       1      -       -      -
TOOT PROJECT WELLS                    -       1      3       7       6      5       5      4       3      3       3       2      1       1      1
MISCELLANEOUS INCOME                  -              12      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -
TOTAL REVENUES                 19    100    182    307    278    236    203    172    148    127    106           70      34     29      26
OPERATING EXPENSES
OPR. ADM. & TRG. WELLS 1467           3       6       6      5       4      4       3      3       2       2      1       1      -       -      -
OPR. ADM. S TRO. PROJECT SELLS        -       4      10     20      19     17      15     13      12      11     10       8      7       7      7
OPERATING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND TRAINING COSTS                    3      10      16     25      23     21      18     16      14      13     11       9      7       7      7
DEPRECIATION/DEPLETION                9      44     79    158    137    110        89     69      59     50      44      30     18       5      4
ROYALTIES                             2      12     21      37      33     29      24     21      18      16     13       B      4       3      3
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES       14     66    116    220    193    160    131    106         91      79    6S       47      29     15    14
NET PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS            5      34     66      87      85     76      72     66      57      48     38      23      5      14    12
INTEREST                              -       -      6      23     25      22      17     13      10      7       4       2      1       1      -
OVERALL PROFIT/LOSS                   5      34     60      64      60     54      55     53      47     41      34     21       4      13    12
DIVIDENDS PAID                        -       -     28    135       60     54      55     53      47     41      34     21       4      13    12
PROFIT RETAINED                       5      39     71       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -
9PERATING RATIO (C)                   74     66      64     72      69     68      65     62      61      62     64      67     85      52    54
Date: Nov-rbe- 21, 1978



- 55 -
ANNEX 5.02
OGDC                                                               %ge 1 tf  pages
TOOT FIELD
STATEMENTS IF SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
IN MILLIONS OF RUPEES
77/78  78/79  79/80  so/1l  S1/i2  82/83  83/84  84/B5  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL SOURCES
NET PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS                 5      34      66      87      85      76      72     66      57      48      38      23       5      14      12
DEPRECIATION/DEPLETION                     9      44      79    158    137    110        89      69      59      50      44      30      18       5       4
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH GENERATION         14      78    145    245    222    186    161    135    116            98     82      53      23      19      16
OGDC EQUITY                               69    175        -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -
LONG TERM BORROWINGS
PROPOSED TOOT PROJECT IDA CREDIT           -      38    147       77      29       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
POSSIBLE ODM 1 CIDA CREDITS                -      09      79      40      20       _       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       - 
TOTAL LONG TERM BORROWINGS                 -      97    226    117        49      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -
TOTAL SOURCES                      83    350    371    362    271    186    161    135    116             98      82      53      23      19      t 6
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL OUTLAYS
TOOT WELL 7                               15       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -
TOOT PROJECT DRILLING                     8l    261    171         4       -              -       -       -       -       -       -       -           -
TOOT PROJECT FACIL-
ITIES A EQUIPMENT                          -      8s    a8         6       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -        -
TOTAL CAPITAL OUTLAYS                  96    349    259       10       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -
WORKING CAPITAL
INVENTORY OIL                              -       4       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -4)
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                        3      14      13      21      (5)    (7)    (5)    (5)    (4)    (4)    (3)    (6)    (6)    (1)             (1)
CASH AND BANK BALANCES                     -       -       -      39    115      61      49      36      32      28      25      23      17       1       5
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                         (16)   (42)    15        41       2      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -
TOTAL INCREASE/DECREASE
IN WORKING CAPITAL                    (13)   (24)    28    101    112         54      44      31      28     24      22      17      11       -        _
DIVIDENDS PAID                             -       -      28    135      60      54      55      53      47      41      34      21       4     13       12
DEBT SERVICE
LOAN AMORTIZATION                          -      25      so      93     74      56      45      38      31      26      22      13       7      5        4
INTEREST                                   -       -       6     23      25      22      17      13      10       7       4       2      1       1        -
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                      -      25     56    116       99      78      62      51      41     33      26      15       8       6        4
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                  93    350    371    362    271    186    161    135    116            98      82      53      23      19       16
,                            _ ~~~~~~~~~- --   - --    - - -  -- -  ------    -- -  ---   - -   ----    ------    ----  --    - __--- _ _- _- _- _ _- -_ _____ _- - --   ----_-     - ___-- _- _ - _- --
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                      -    3.1    2.6    2.1    2.2    2.4    2.6    2.6    2.a    3.0    3.2    3.5    2.9    3.2                 4.0
late: Nevember 21, 1978



-56 -
ANNEX 5.02
Page 4 of 4 pages
TOOT FIELD
BALANCE SHEETS
IN MILLIONS OF RUPEES
76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92
ASSETS
DEFERRED COST DEVELOPMENT
DRILLING I EXPLORATION                  -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -
DEFERRED COST                          142    238    499    670    674    674    674    674    674    674    674    674    674    674    674    674
LESS ACCUMULATED DEPLETION               -      -      35     94    223    330    414    482    535    579    614    643    658    666    670    674
NET DEFERRED COST                      142    238    464    576    451    344    260    192    139          95      60     31      16       8      4       -
FIXED ASSETS
FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT AT COST        69     69    157    245    251    251    251    251    251    251    251    251    251    251    251    251
_ESS ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION           20     29      38     58      87    117    143    164    180    195    210    225    240    250    251    251
NET FIXED ASSETS                        49     40    119    187    164    134    108         87      71     56      41     26      11       1      -      -
CURRENT ASSETS
INVENTORY-OIL                            1      1       5      5       5       5      5       5       5      5       5      5       5       5      5      1
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                      9     12      26     39      60      55     48      43      38     34      30     27      21      1S     14     13
SASH AND BANKt BALANCES                  4      4       4       4     43    158    219    268    304    336    364    389    412    429    430    435
nCCOUNTS PAYABLE                        (4)   (20)   (62)   (47)    (6)    (4)    (4)    (4)    (4)    (4)    (4)    (4)    (4)    (4)    (4)    (4)
CURRENT PORTION OF L/T DEBT              -    (25)   (50)   (93)   (74)   (56)   (45)   (38)   (31)   (26)   (22)   (13)    (7)    (5)    (4)             -
NET CURRENT ASSETS                      10    (28)   (77)   (92)    28    158    223    274    312    345    373    404    427    440   441    445
TOTAL ASSETS                   201    250    506    671    643    636    591    553    522    496    474    461    454    449   445    445
_IABILITIES                              -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -
DJOC EQUITY CONTRIBUTION              201    270    445    445    445    445    445    445    445    445    445    445    445    445   445    445
4CCUMULATED PROFIT/LOSS                  -      5      39     99    163    223    277    332    385    432    473    507    528    532   545    557
ACCUMULATED DIVIDENDS                    -      -       -    (28)  (1631  (223)  (277)  (332)  (385)  (432)  (473)  (507)  (528)  (532) (545)  (557)
NET EQUITY                            201    275    484    516    445    445    445    445    445    445    445    445    445    445   445    445
:-OD TERN LIABILITIES                    -    (25)    22    155    198    191    146    108         77      51      29     16       9      4      -       -
TOTAL LIABILITIES              201    250    506    671    643    636    591    553    522    496    474    461    454    449   445    445
9EBT/EOUITY RATIO                        -   (0.1)      -    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1           -       -       -     -       _
Nove-ber 21, 1978



ANNEX 5.03
Page 1 of 3 pages
PAKISTAN
OGDC
STATEMENTS OF INCOME
IN MILLIONS OF RUPEES
74                                      77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83
INFLATION                                1.05   1.13   1.21   1.30   1.39   1.49
PRICE OLD OIL                            31.1   5043   54.0   57.8   6149   66*2
PRICE PROJECT OIL                        80,7   87.2   93,7  100.3  107.3  114.8
PRICE DHODAK OIL                        129,3  139.7  150.1  160.7  171.9  183.9
PRODUCTION
CRUDE OIL (MILL. BBL.)
-TOOT WELLS 1467                          0.6    1.0    0,9    0.7    0.6    0.5
TOOT PROJECT WELLS                          -    0*5    1,2    2.6    2.2    1.7
DHODAK                                      -       -      -    2.4    6.1    7.3
NATURAL GAS (BILL.CU.FT.)
TOOT WELLS 1467                           1.7    3.0    2.7    2.2    1.7    1.4
TOOT PROJECT WELLS                          -    1.6    3.7    7.7    6*6    5.2
DHODAK                                      -       -      -   24.0   61.0   73*0
-OPERATING REVENUES
CRUDE OIL
TOOT FIELD                                 18      97    165    298    270    230
DHODAK                                      -       -      -    386  1,049  1P343
NATURAL GAS
TOOT FIELD                                  1       3      5       9      8       6
DHODAK                                      -       -      -      34     92    118
MISCELLANEOUS INCOME                        -       -     12       -      -      15
TOTAL REVENUES                      19    100    182    727  1.419  1,712
OPERATING EXPENSES
OPERATING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND TRAINING COSTS                          9      20     25      50     76      87
DEPRECIATION/DEPLETION                     75    111    165    338    435    455
ROYALTIES                                   2      12     21      85    164    197
INCOME TAXES                                -       -      -       -      -       -
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES            86    143    211    473    675    739
NET PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS                (67)   (43)   (29)   254    744    973
INTEREST                                    4      3      18     91    135    137
NET PROFIT FROM SUCCESSFUL VENTURES    (71)   (46)   (47)   163    609    836
-UNSUCCESSFUL EXPLORATION COSTS            89    139    109    228    327    337
OVERALL PROFIT/LOSS                      (160)  (185)  (156)   (65)   282    499
OPERATING RATIO (Z)                       453    143    116      65      48      43
Date: November 21, 1978



AN NEX 5.03
Page 2 of 3 pages
PAKISTAN
OGOC
STATEMENTS OF SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
IN MILLIONS OF RUPEES
77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  TOTAL 79 THRU 83  TOTAL 78 THRU 83
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL SOURCES
NET PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS                (67)   (43)   (29)   254    744    973                   1,899               1,832
DEPRECIATION/DEPLETION                     75    111    165    338    435    455                   1,504               1,579
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH GENERATION           8     68    136    592  1,179  1,428                  3,403               3,411
GOP EQUITY CONTRIBUTION                   318    497    378    442    232          5               1,554               1,872
INCREASE IN WORKERS GRATUITY FUNDS          2       2       2      2       2       2                  10                  12
LONG TERM BORROWINGS
PROPOSED TOOT PROJECT IDA CREDIT            -      45    147      77      29       -                 298                 298
POSSIBLE FUTURE IBRD LOAN                   -       -    218    198       69      10                 495                 495
POSSIBLE ODM AND/OR
CIDA CREDITS                                -    257    277    189        70       -                 793                 793
SUPPLIERS CREDITS AND/OR
COMMERCIAL LOANS                            -       -    327    297    139    129                    892                 892
TOTAL LONG TERM BORROWINGS                  -    302    969    761    307    139                   2,478               2,478
TOTAL SOURCES                      328    869  1,485  1,797  1,720  1,574                   7,445               7,773
CAPITAL OUTLAYS
TOOT                                       89    325    241       10       -       -                 576                 665
DHODAK                                    106    199    734    711    287    188                   2,119               2-225
ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT
DRILLING FAC. Z EQUIP.                     40    169    218    228    277    287                   1,179               1,219
TOTAL CAPITAL OUTLAYS                  235    693  1,193    949    564    475                  3,874               4,109
EXPLORATION                                89    139    198    327    495    535                   1,694               1,783
INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL               (28)   (19)   (21)   197    230    116                     503                 475
INCREASE IN INVESTMENTS                     2       2      2       2       2       2                  10                  12
DEBT SERVICE                                -       -       -      -       -       -
LOAN AMORTIZATION                          26      51     95    231    294    305                    980               1,006
INTEREST                                    4       3      18     91    135    137                   384                 388
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                      30     54    113    322    429    446                  1,364               1,394
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 328    869  1,485  1,797  19720  1,574                   7,445               7,773
DEBT SERvICE COVERAGE                     0.3    1.3    1.2    1.8    2.7    3.2                    10.2                10.5
Date: November 21, 1978



X59 -
ANNEX 5.03
Page 3 of 3 pages
PAKISTAN
OODC
BALANCE SHEETS
IN MILLIONS OF RUPEES
76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83
ASSETS
DEFERRED COST DEVELOPMENT DRILLING I EXPLORATION        -       -      -       -      -       -      -
DEFERRED COST                                         217    411    842  1,366  1,751  2P278  2,833
LESS ACCUMULATED DEPLETION                               -      -     35      92    226    381    550
NET DEFERRED COST                                     217    411    807  1,274  1,525  1,897  2,283
FIXED ASSETS
FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT AT COST                      457    498    760  1,518  2P181  2t386  2,504
LESS ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION                         117    176    235    324    505    759  1,016
NET FIXED ASSETS                                      340    322    525  1,194  1,676  1,627  1,488
CURRENT ASSETS
STOCKS AND SPARES                                     225    219    242    273    300    324    345
INVENTORY-OIL                                           1       1      5       5     21     21      21
ADVANCES AND DEPOSITS                                 153    153    153    153    153    153    153
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                                     10     13     27      40    131    246    298
CASH AND BANK BALANCES                                  4       4      4       4      4      4       4
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                                       (21)   (62)  (139)  (223)  (183)  (118)  (104)
CURRENT PORTION OF L/T DEBT                            (26)   (51)   (95)  (231)  (294)  (309)  (315)
NET CURRENT ASSETS                                    346    277    197       21    132    321    402
INVESTMENTS                                             8      10     12      14     16     18      20
TOTAL ASSETS                                   911  1,020  1,541  2P503  3,349  3,S63  4,193
LIABILITIES
EQUITY
CONTRIBUTIONS AND PROFITS                           1,260  1,507  1P958  2,299  2,894  30735  4,576
LESS UNSUCCESSFUL EXPLORATION COST                     441    530    669    778  1,006  1t333  1,670
NET EQUITY                                            819    977  1,289  1,511  1,888  2,402  2,906
WORKERS GRATUITY FUNDS                                 45      47     49      51     53     55      57
LONG TERM LIABILITIES                                  47      (4)   203    941  1,408  1,406  1.230
-----  -----   -----  ___ __  __ _ -----  --- - ___-
TOTAL LIABILITIES                              911  1,020  1,541  2,503  3,349  3.863  4,193
.DEBT/EaUITY RATIO                                     0*1      -    0.2    0.6    0.7    0.6    0.4
CURRENT RATIO                                        894    3.5    1.8    1.0    1.3    1.8    2.0
RATES OF RETURN ON AVERAGE INVESTED CAPITAL(Z)           -   (7.5)  (3.9)  (3.2)   9.3   27.7   30.8
Date: November 21, 1978



- 60 -
ANNEX 5.04
Page 1 of 3
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
A.   Income Statements
1.        Production from Toot project wells has been calculated on the basis
of projected production from 7 wells using well flow rate estimates from the
Core Laboratories reservoir study. The estimates used for production from
Dhodak are based on OGDC's own forecasts. Gas production from Sari/Hundi is
estimated to remain constant at 15 mmef per day.
2.        Operating Revenv-s from natural gas sales are based on an assumed
price to OGDC of US$0.07 per mcf for Toot gas. 1/ This is the price presently
realized from gas production of Sari/Hundi and is generally equivalent to the
well-head prices paid to other producers in the country. The price assumed
for Dhodak gas is US$0.11 per mcf. This figure was calculated on the basis
of the assumption that OGDC should require a price for Dhodak gas sufficient
to yield a 15% real rate of return on its investment in the required gas pipe-
line facility. Miscellaneous income represents the residual worth of trans-
portation equipment.
3.        Operating Costs, or direct production costs, are assumed to be
US$0.53 per barrel of oil - a figure which reflects OGDC's historical expe-
rience and estimates of future costs made by the Corporation's Production
Department. Revenues accruing from natural gas sales at Sari/Hundi are
offset by an equivalent allowance for production expenses of about 7U/mcf.
4.        Administrative Costs related to OGDC's production activities have
been projected to be US$0.1 million in the first year of each field's pro-
duction and US$0.2 million thereafter.
5.        Training Costs have been projected on the basis of a modification
of the estimates for training projected in the Corporation's six-year plan.
6.        Depletion of accumulated deferred costs related to the Toot and
Dhodak fields is assumed to extend over the useful lives of these fields
and is calculated on a unit-of-production basis. Depletion of the deferred
costs on the Toot field is assumed to begin in FY79.
7.        Depreciation has been calculated according to schedules summarized
below.
1/   All operating revenues and costs are given in 1977 dollars.



- 61 -                      ANNEX 5.04
Page 2 of 3
Annual Depreciation
(Straight Line)
Machinery and equipment including
drilling tools and rigs                     15%
Transportation equipment                      20%
Pipelines and surface facilities              10%
The existing asset base, which is heavily weighted by the recent addition of
four new rigs, has been depreciated at 13% per year. A rate of obsolescence
of 7% per year is assumed on engineering stores.
8.        Royalty:  Payments are expected to be at 12.5% of well head price.
9.        Income Tax:  OGDC is not expected to pay income taxes during this
period because of the anticipated magnitude of its exploration expenditures
and comparatively low earning capability before FY82.
10.       Unsuccessful Exploration Costs are assumed to amount to 2/3 of
OGDC's expenditure on exploration. This was based on OGDC's own estimate of
its successful to unsuccessful drilling ratio of 1 to 3.
B.   Statements of Sources and Applications of Funds
1.        Capital Outlays:  Projected year by year capital expenditures on
Toot and Dhodak development as well as on exploration are shown in the State-
ments. The detailed projections of capital outlays on additional development
drilling facilities and equipment are given below:
In US$ Millions
77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82   82/83   Total
Development Drilling    4.0       4.0    13.0    14.0    19.0    20.0        74.0
Facilities and
Equipment               -      13.0     9.0      9.0      9.0     9.0      49.0
4.0    17.0    22.0    23.0    28.0    29.0    123.0
2.        Increase in Working Capital:  The increase of US$50 million in
working capital during the period includes US$25 million assumed to have
been spent on the acquisition of engineering stores.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5.04
Page 3 of 3
3.        GOP Equity Contribution:  Projected year by year funds flow deficits
were assumed to be provided for by a government equity contribution.
4.        Borrowings:  Loan amortization of all funds borrowed by OGDC or
onlent to it by the Government and relating specifically to expenditure on
development is assumed to begin with the start-up of production. Repayment
of development related onlent funds is calculated on a production scaled
basis.
C.   Balance Sheets
5.        Deferred Cost Account:  Until now, exploration and development ex-
penditures incurred by OGDC have been accumulated in a deferred cost account
and, except for some minor amounts that have been charged against the Cor-
poration's revenues, the account which totals US$66.4 million is roughly
equivalent to total expenditures since OGDC's inception in 19610  The amount
includes direct as well as overhead and depreciation costs associated with
both successful and unsuccessful exploration and drilling activities of the
Corporation. OGDC's estimate of 1/3 as its historical drilling success ratio
has been taken as the basis of the assumption that 21.9 of the 66.4 $ million
represent the net cost of successful drilling ventures and the remaining 44.5
$ million the unsuccessful exploration costs. It is known that US$14.3 mil-
lion of the assumed US$21.9 million in productive assets represents the net
deferred cost on the Toot field.



- 63 -
INCkEMENIAL  rOU1 OEVELJPMENT                                                        ANNEX o.DI
LCUNUMIC  RLAL  rAF (IF RLTIIRN
IASE CASE
77/78    78/79    79/80   U0/81   dlfi/8   842/3   83/8'4  84/bS   65/81,  8O/Xb7   67/88   944/h9   49/49   u/jl  .1192
P")IOUCT 1 144
JIL(MILL. 9ARH4ELS)                  -      O,54      1.2a4   2.S5    2.1'9    1,74*    1.40    1.11         0.79    U.72    0.5c    u.S344   -".)        .-      '.12
6AStdlLL.CU.F 1.)                    -      I.82      3.7e    7.S5    b.57    S.e2    4.2u   35.3    2.67    d.1                    I.u'. 7 .v2    U.$4    o..2    o.3.
ps ICE
UILIUSS/YA9R1FL1                15.25    15.25    15.25   15.25   15.25   15l5   15.25   Ib.25   15.25  I1.dS   15.2b   15.eb   1S.2b   Ib.dS   Ib.25
V AL4 Li
L4UIJE Ull                           -      8.24    18.91   3b.89   33.4U   2b,54   21. 35   1D.93   13.57   10.,11    A.85    b.l9    2.7b    2.14    1.83
l1lTAL  VALUE                      -     8.24    18.91   38.89   53.40   28.54   d1.35   ID.91   13.57   10.48    f).85    5.19    2.7,    2.14                  1.89
EXIPLNSLb
L1' tRA I ING EXPENSES
U"E4AI EN1  ClISI                    -      a4.29     U.o.b    !S5    1.1e        U.92    J.-             .5  44.47    u.38    44.31    4.18   0O. I          7    0."o
AUMINISRATIVE  LUST                -      0.lo      0.2V    0.20    04.2('   1O.20    o.2U4        .20    0.2u    J.d0    0.24    4*.2        0.2      ' 2 .0    0.2u
TUTAL  iJPR.t. ADM. LUbl           -     0.39      0.84      1.55    1.3O      1.12    U.94    V,9    0.             .58    0.S1    u.S8    0.1)    od7    0.2,
L449ITAL I NVLStMENTS
*LLLS  4,NUL)uCINU               5 440   18 95    13.45            -        -        -        -         -        _           _        _        _        _        _
wLLI S STfP  JUl                  I23       3 22          -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -
DbILI ING P9 UGROA               0.7c,          _                .2
_____ ------   ------   -----  -----                   -----   -----  -----   -----   ----- -_    _ __-   ----    -----  ---_
SU81UIAL DRILLING              7.39    22.17    13.45    V.28             _
R,)AD IRANSPURI                      -      1.33          -        -        -        -        -        -         -                 -        -        -        -        -
AII lL4ANSPUt!T                      -      0.7b          -        -                          -        -         -        -        -        -                 -        -
Uf fACF FACILITIES                   -      2_5o      4.45    u.47          -        -        -         -        -        -        - 7
PUlf'L 141                           -      2.444     2. 4b-       -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -
SudIJlAL  FAC. F. EGU.             -     7. 49     8.91    U.47           -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        .        -         -
TUT4L  CAP, LUST               7,39    29.60    20.30    0.75            -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        .        -
. UI' 1G CAPITAL
ALLIJUNTS PAYAdLL               (0,92)   L2.781    1.lo       2.45    44.14         -        -        -         _        -        _        _        _        _        _
.____ ------       ------     -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----     -----    -----
FUTAL  OURA. CAP.            (0,92)   (2.7Y1       I.18    2,4S    4.10           -        -                  -                              -         -            -
TUTAL EXPENSES                8.4 7    27.27    22.38    4a,75    1.4O    1.12    0,94*            . 79    O4.67    u.,8    0.Si   44.8    0.3u4    u.27    4.20
NL.I CAS6h  LUW               (8,47)  119.403)   13.47) 3q1.14   31. 94   2542   20.41   16, 14   12.9u   14u.40    8.34    44.1l   2.4b.    1 .47    1.57
...Z:  2==*==   *=Z==   =:232    =2=Sz   =-222   223:s   22.22   =2=a=   222..    =====  t:=zz    ====2    =2=22    z=4=4
ALCUM1LATEO  NPV,   30X         (84 )9S   (  .24) (17 721  1 587)   2.73              .00   11 .2S   13.23   14.445   I 520   15.67  1S88   IS. 9b   1.41   I6. 04
ALCUMJLATEIX  NF9, 407          18,o2) 1  4 ,33) (LS .59)  ( .703 10.78)  d.b2    4 5O    5.b5    6.27    b6.3    b.A4    b.92                         .97    8.97      .981
ALLUM',LATED NV4, 5OX           (4.31) 112.77) (13.8U) (7.06) (2.851  (0.62)   u.57    1.e6                  1.54    1.72    1.8d    l.bo8    1.87    I.b8    J.AB
ALCUMJLATEO  NMV, 4     X Z   41 (4 0 4 )  II1.4*71 t2.32)  (7,111 (I4.1Ubl 12,54) (178) I (1.4*01  (1.21) (1.12) (1.07) 7(.VS)  41.0.4) (1.44     1.041
RtrVUR% UN )NVESTlLNT  * 55,743%
Dste: Nove.ber 21, 1978
X



- 64 -
ANNEX 7.01
PAKISTAN
TOOT OIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector and Subsector
Al. United Nations Energy Survey of Pakistan (2 vols.),
by Acres International Limited (1974).
A2. The Petroleum Industry in Pakistan - Background
Information, by Petroleum Commission of Pakistan
(1974).
B.   General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Bl. Toot Field Study, by Core Laboratories, Incorporated (1977).
B2.  Investment Study for Toot-Dhuliem Pipeline, by ENAR
Protech Services Limited (1977).
B3. Proposal for Oil and Gas Training Institute, by OGDC
Staff (1977).
B4. Toot-Dhodak Development Project by OGDC Staff (1977).
B5. Six Year Development Plan, by OGDC Corporate Planning
Department (1978).



IBRD 1315BR1
U. I       S     I       DECEMBER 1978
PAKISTAN                                                               (            ,-         '   r    CHINA
THE PETROLEUM SECTOR                                                                     \  *-.   - 
NATURAL GAS PIPELINES                                                                          JA '  JA  MM UI
--  NATURAL GAS PIPELINES UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                           AND -
W    NATURAL GAS FIELDS                                                                            KASH M[R
OIL FIELDS                                                     ,/
ft   REFINERIES
ROADS4 
RAILWAYS                                                 .                                    I > e      R.  coos-
-  RIVERS                                                                ('>aknr8,
-  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                 '                    0 Mordo
w  t    .-Pesl;E=oHort         Gr       O
L S >' S ~~~ISLAMABAD
t   12      J     S   F     -~~~~~~~~~~) lRiowolpmtd'.
32'                                                                                                                        GJI          32'-
FaLaaadagr 
J                             ',D,z    81)           ,J,         Jotno   i
.~~~~~~~~                                         ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -MDX   <onlngoer    2
2 Q   <,                                      <         -,,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rohrmyor Khon   ,./
8 Q,0lf  k! J            28
RA    5                                                             // 70                       100   200       300       400
f                                                                                                   1< \   s  K LOMETERS
tg                              'it                    ?  cl               1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  200   300
e K~~~~ 
SU     9                          MILES
I R AN- .2                                                                                            L S. S. R. CI
.~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~ L _   0  AALE|  T E R S
.~~~~4             ,      I                   !>'    ND    A
AA K I  E-=
FK~~~~~
N D   A
62'                                    66'                                     70' 



