OFFICIAL    7SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 41 PAK
DOCUMENTS
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Toot Oil and Gas Development Project)
between
ISLAMCI REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated January 10, 1980


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 41 PAK
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 10, 1980, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSO-
CIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action Account established
with funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN
ECONOMIC COMMUNITY.
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would be
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of May 2, 1978
referred to above;
(C) by agreement dated January 12, 1979 (hereinafter called
the IDA Credit Agreement), IDA agreed to make a development credit
(hereinafter called the IDA Credit) to the Borrower to assist in
financing the Project on terms and conditions therein set forth;
(D) the Borrower has concluded an agreement with the Attock
Oil Company Limited, a company incorporated in England, dated
November 7, 1978, which provides inter alia for the refining of
OGDC crude oil, and for that purpose Pakistan Oilfields Limited (a
company incorporated in Pakistan) and Attock Refinery Limited (a
company incorporated in Pakistan) have entered into an agreement
with OGDC for the transporting and refining of such crude oil;
(E) the Canadian International Development Agency (herein-
after referred to as CIDA) has made available to the Borrower an
aggregate principal amount of eight million and five hundred forty
thousand Canadian dollars from its OGDC support program (herein-
after referred to as the CIDA Fund) to assist in financing the
Project, together with the services of a consultant as Management
Advisor and Project Coordinator to OGDC, on terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement entered into between the Government of


﻿-2-
Canada and the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as the CIDA
Agreement); and
(F) the Project will be carried out by the Oil and Gas
Development Corporation, a corporation organized and existing
under the laws of the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as OGDC)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to OGDC the proceeds of the
Special Action Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and
in the Special Action Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Administrator and OGDC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and


﻿-3-
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom;
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment;
(c) "Special Action Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Administrator and OGDC of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Special Action Project Agreement and all agree-
ments supplemental to the Special Action Project Agreement;
(d) "Special Action Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and OGDC
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Special Action Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e) "Toot" means the Toot oil and gas field located about
70 miles southwest of Islamabad;
(f) "Dhodak" means the Dhodak oil and gas field located
about 135 miles northwest of Multan; and
(g) "Ordinance" means the Oil and Gas Development Corpora-
tion Ordinance, 1961 (Ordinance No. XXXVII of 1961 dated Septem-
ber 20, 1961) as amended to the date of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency amounts:
fourteen million one
hundred ninety-nine
thousand                Belgian francs        (BF14,199,000);
one million seven
hundred sixty-
seven thousand          Danish kroner          (DKl,767,000);
six million eight
hundred twenty-five
thousand                Deutsche marks         (DM6,825,000);
seven million two
hundred fifteen
thousand                French francs          (FF7,215,000);
fifteen thousand seven
hundred                 Irish pounds             (IrZl5,700);
eight hundred thirty-
seven million two
hundred thirty
thousand                Italian lire        (ItL837,230,000);
four hundred forty-
seven thousand          Luxembourg francs        (LF447,000);
one million eight
hundred eighty-seven
thousand                Netherlands guilders (Dfl 1,887,000);
and
one million seven
hundred thirty-nine
thousand nine hundred   Pounds sterling         (919739,900).


﻿-5-
Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures (i) in the currency of the Borrower, or (ii) for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, (A) any of the Member
States and (B) any developing country which is a member of the
International Development Association and could be the recipient
of a special action credit, as determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Special Action
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to time.
The amounts of service charge in various currencies so found, and
additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the currency
of the United States of America, or in another currency selected
by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph (b) of this Section, after their conversion into such
currency on the basis of exchange rates determined in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.05 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, service charges shall be payable in such other currency.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 1990
and ending November 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each payment
date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional cur-
rency amounts.
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in


﻿-7-
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.
Section 2.08. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, or his nominee is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be'carried out by OGDC with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and petro-
leum engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Special Action Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause OGDC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Special Action Project Agreement and the Special
Action Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable OGDC to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit to OGDC under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and OGDC under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator
including those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Special Action Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to
accomplish the purposes of the Special Action Credit, and except


﻿-8-
as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Special Action Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. On the basis, inter alia, of the report fur-
nished to it by OGDC pursuant to Section 4.03 of the Special
Action Project Agreement, the Borrower shall establish starting
not later than July 1, 1980, and subsequently, not later than
July 1 in each year for the year commencing on that date, the
amount, if any, required to be paid to OGDC, in addition to OGDC's
receipts from the sale of oil and gas, for oil and gas produced at
Toot in order to ensure that OGDC, under conditions of efficient
operation, will achieve a net of taxes discounted cash flow real
rate of return for the Project of not less than 10%.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, with a view toward
improving the price structure in the energy sector, before
March 31, 1980, or such other date as shall be mutually agreed
between the Borrower and the Administrator, complete an energy
utilization, cost and pricing study in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Administrator.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
study, the Borrower shall, as necessary, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrator.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(i) from time to time consult with the Administrator
on the scope and adequacy of its investment pro-
grams, including major development projects, in the
oil and gas sector; and
(ii) make available such funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the carrying out
of the said investment programs.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall from time to time, and
taking into account the findings of the study referred to in
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, endeavor to adjust petroleum
product prices so that over a period of three consecutive years
beginning with the preceding three year period ending June 30,
1980, the cumulative net receipts of the petroleum surcharge shall
be in a positive position.


﻿-9-
(b) For the purpose of this Section "net receipts" mean
gross receipts of the petroleum surcharge less any refunds made by
the Borrower: (i) at source, including those intended to cover
inland freight deficits, subsidies on imported refined products
and oil storage operating charges, and (ii) to the refineries.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) (i) OGDC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Special Action Project
Agreement;
(ii) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that OGDC will be
able to perform its obligations under the Special
Action Project Agreement;
(iii) OGDC, or the Borrower, or any other authority
having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for
the dissolution or disestablishment of OGDC or for
the suspension of its operations;
(iv) a change shall have been made in the Ordinance
which will, in the judgment of the Administrator,
materially and adversely affect the financial
condition or operation of OGDC;
(v) a subsidiary company shall have been acquired or
taken over by the OGDC, if such creation, acquisi-
tion or taking over would materially and adversely
affect the conduct of OGDC's business or OGDC's
financial situation; and
(vi) a default shall have occurred in the performance by
the Borrower or OGDC of any of its obligations
under the Special Action Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:


﻿- 10 -
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or credit (including the
IDA Credit and the CIDA Fund) made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adeqviate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) (i), (a) (iv), (a)
(v), and (a) (vi) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the Bor-
rower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a) (iii) and (b) (i)
(B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreedent within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
(a) the execution and delivery of the Special Action Project
Agreement on behalf of OGDC have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the Special Action Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and OGDC, respec-
tively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Administrator:
(a) that the Special Action Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by OGDC, and is legally binding upon OGDC
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Special Action Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and OGDC and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and OGDC in accordance with
its terms.
Section 5.03. The date April 10, 1980 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 and 3.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Special Action Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 12 -
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECONOMIC                           ECDIV
Islamabad                          05-634
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 13 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Action Credit to each
Category and the percentage for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Special Action Credit            % of
Allocated (Expressed         Expenditures
Category          in Dollar Equivalents)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment and           11,000,000
materials:
(a) directly                                   100% of for-
imported                                  eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally                                    100% of local
manufac-                                  expenditures
tured                                     (ex-factory)
(c) procured                                   70%
locally
(2) Unallocated              1,000,000
TOTAL   12,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall be adjusted
accordingly.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of, and for goods produced in or services supplied
from, (i) any of the Member States and (ii) any developing coun-
try, other than the Borrower, which is a member of the Inter-
national Development Association and could be the recipient of a
Special Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit decreases or increases,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Administrator.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement..
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then


﻿- 16 -
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Admin-
istrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
Action Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
currency amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts
which would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of Lhe
proceeds of the Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
tures.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to develop
its oil and gas resources at Toot and Dhodak, and consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   Toot
1.   (a) Drilling of seven production wells.
(b) Drilling of one delineation well, followed by
studies to assess reserves.
(c) Provision of (i) tractor trailers suitable for
rigging-up, supplying and supporting three drill-
ing rigs and (ii) a short take-off and landing
aircraft.
(d) Provision of materials and services for dual
production, production stimulation, and well
workovers.
2.   Provision of facilities required to produce and trans-
port crude oil and associated gas, including gas-oil separators,
oil and gas gathering systems, oil storage tanks, pumps, gas
dehydration units, a crude oil pipeline of about 20 miles, and a
gas pipeline to the Sui Northern Pipelines Ltd. trunkline.
Part B:   Dhodak
1.   Seismic survey with helicopter support, followed by
drilling of delineation wells, and studies to assess
reserves.
2.   Feasibility study for development of the Dhodak field.
Part C:   Training
Strengthening of OGDC's Oil and Gas Training Institute.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Action
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Loan period:                     not to exceed 15 years
Interest rate:                   10% per annum on the prin-
cipal amount withdrawn by
OGDC and outstanding from
time to time


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   J        day of J   1nua/y
19%F                         R. .
FOR SECRETARY


