SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 41 PAK
Special Action Project Agreement
(Toot Oil and Gas Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
and
OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated January 10, 1980


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 41 PAK
SPECIAL ACTION PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 10, 1980, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action
Account established with funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of
the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY (hereinafter called the Adminis-
trator) and OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, a corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan (hereinafter called OGDC).
WHEREAS by the Special Action Credit Agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Special Action Credit Agreement)
between the Borrower and the Administrator, the Administrator has
agreed to make to the Borrower a Special Action Credit (herein-
after called the Special Action Credit) on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Special Action Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that OGDC agrees to undertake such obligations
towards the Administrator as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and OGDC, the proceeds of the Special Action
Credit will be made available to OGDC on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS OGDC, in consideration of the Administrator's enter-
ing into the Special Action Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitious
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Preamble to this Agreement, in the Special Action Credit
Agreement and in the General Conditions applicable to such Special
Action Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. OGDC shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Special Action Credit Agreement with due


﻿diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist OGDC in carrying out the
Project, OGDC shall, except as the Administrator may otherwise
agree, employ consultants and experts, including those specified
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) Consultants and experts whose services are to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, shall
have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Administrator and OGDC.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) OGDC undertakes t insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit relent to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by OGDC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Administrator may otherwise agree, OGDC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Action Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) OGDC shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall
reasonably request.
(b) OGDC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Action Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Administrator's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included


﻿-3-
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Administrator at regular
intervals all such information as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) OGDC shall enable the Administrator's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of OGDC and any records and documents
relevant to the Project as the Administrator shall reasonably
request.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between OGDC and
the Administrator, OGDC shall prepare and furnish to the Adminis-
trator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Admin-
istrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by OGDC and the Administrator
of their respective obligations under the Special Action Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Special
Action Credit.
Section 2.06. OGDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Special Action Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, OGDC shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Special Action Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) OGDC shall at the request of the Adminis-
trator, exchange views with the Administrator with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Special Action Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Special Action Credit.
(b) OGDC shall promptly inform the Administrator of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the


﻿-4-
Special Action Credit, or the performance by OGDC of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Special Action Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. OGDC shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of facilities included in the Project and shall furnish
to the Administrator, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Administrator that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.09. OGDC shall establish and maintain a Toot
Project Management Team responsible for implementing the Project,
whose composition and resources shall be satisfactory to the
Administrator.
Section 2.10. (a) OGDC shall establish and implement a
training program satisfactory to the Administrator, to develop the
skills of OGDC's staff, and to be carried out at its Oil and Gas
Training Institute referred to in Part C of the Project.
(b) OGDC shall provide adequate facilities for the training
program referred to hereinabove.
(c) OGDC shall appoint a full time training director for
the training program referred to hereinabove, whose qualifica-
tions and experience shall be determined in consultation with the
Administrator.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of OGDC
Section 3.01. OGDC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business,
financial, administrative and petroleum engineering practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. (a) OGDC shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and the right to carry on its operations
and to acquire and retain ownership of all lands and maintain
and renew all interests in land and other properties, and take


﻿-5-
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
(b) OGDC shall at all times operate and maintain its
projects, machinery, equipment and other property, and make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with
sound petroleum engineering practices.
(c) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
OGDC shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its property or assets required for the efficient operation of
the Project, except in the normal course of business.
Section 3.03. OGDC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Administrator, for insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. (a) OGDC shall furnish to the Administrator
for discussion by December 31, 1979, the result of a review
of OGDC's management and planning practices conducted with the
assistance of the consultants referred to in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) 0GDC shall, by June 30, 1980, begin to implement the
recommendations agreed upon by the Administrator and OGDC as a
result of the review of OGDC's management and planning practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. OGDC shall maintain separate records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. OGDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) furnish
to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not
later than twelve months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so


﻿-6-
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have reason-
ably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other
information concerning such accounts and financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. OGDC shall furnish to the Borrower and the
Administrator, starting not later than June 1, 1980 and not later
than January 1 in each year thereafter, a report presenting a
financial evaluation of the Project and an analysis of the finan-
cial situation and prospects of OGDC as a whole. For the purpose
of providing information to be considered by the Borrower in
establishing the amount to be paid to OGDC for oil and gas pro-
duced at Toot, pursuant to Section 3.02 of the Special Action
Credit Agreement, the said report shall indicate, inter alia, the
amount to be paid per unit of production, in addition to the
revenues realized from sales, which will permit OGDC, under
conditions of efficient operation, to achieve a net of taxes
discounted cash flow real rate of return for the Project of not
less than 10%.
Section 4.04. OGDC shall, before it undertakes any major
development project in the oil and gas sector, furnish to the
Administrator an economic and financial analysis of the proposed
project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Special Action Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Administrator and of OGDC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Special Action Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.


﻿-7-
(b) If the Special Action Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Administrator, shall promptly
notify OGDC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Special Action Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Sectio, 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action
Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For OGDC:
Oil and Gas Development Corporation
Shafi Chambers
Club Road
Karachi 4
Pakistan


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
OILGASCORP                          23651 OGDC PK
Karachi                             Karachi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of OGDC may be taken or executed by its
Chairman or such other person or persons as OGDC shall designate
in writing, and OGDC shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION
ACCOUNT established with funds
contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the
EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By Isl a&t-tj              9"
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of the Special Action Credit Agreement and except as
provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, OGDC shall prepare and forward to the
Administrator as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Administrator
shall reasonably request; the Administrator will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. OGDC shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for the
imported goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of
other goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 10 -
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Croup A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Adminis-
trator that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the. amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 11 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Equipment and materials with unit prices not exceeding
the equivalent of $100,000 each may be procured in accordance
with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Administrator, provided that the aggregate expenditure of
items so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, OGDC shall furnish to the
Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Administrator's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, OGDC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other infor-
mation as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform OGDC and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 12 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, OGDC shall furnish to the Administrator, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Administrator of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request. The Administrator shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform OGDC and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, OGDC shall inform the
Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform OGDC and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Consultants and Experts
1.   Consultants to assist OGDC in carrying out the review of
OGDC management and planning practices referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
2.   Consultants to assist OGDC in carrying out the various
studies, assessments and surveys referred to in Parts A.1
(b) and B of the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  JtL       day of Inwry,
FOR SECRETAY


