CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 867 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Toot Oil and Gas Development Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 12, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 867 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 12, 1979, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Oil and Gas Development Corporation, a corpor-
ation organized and existing under the laws of the Borrower,
(hereinafter referred to as OGDC), OGDC has agreed to undertake
certain obligations in respect of the Project;
(C) the Borrower has concluded an agreement with the Attock
Oil Company Limited, a company incorporated in England, dated
November 7, 1978, which provides inter alia for the refining of
OGDC crude oil, and for that purpose Pakistan Oilfields Limited (a
company incorporated in Pakistan) and Attock Refinery Limited (a
company to be incorporated in Pakistan) will enter into an agree-
ment with OGDC for the transporting and refining of such crude
oil;
(D) the Canadian International Development Agency (herein-
after referred to as CIDA) intends to make available to the
Borrower an aggregate principal amount of eight million and five
hundred forty thousand Canadian dollars from its OGDC support
program (hereinafter referred to as the CIDA Fund) to assist in
financing the Project, together with the services of a consultant
as Management Advisor and Project Coordinator to OGDC, on terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into
between the Government of Canada and the Borrower (hereinafter
referred to as the CIDA Agreement);
(E) the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland intends to make a grant (hereinafter referred
to as the UK-grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate amount of
six million pounds Sterling to assist in financing the Project
on terms and conditions to be set forth in an exchange of letters
between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
and the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as the UK-grant Docu-
ment); and


﻿-2-
(F) the Association is willing, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Credit available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of
even date herewith between the Association and OGDC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and OGDC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and OGDC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Toot" means the Toot oil and gas field located about
70 miles southwest of Islamabad;
(d) "Dhodak" means the Dhodak oil and gas field located
about 135 miles northwest of Multan; and
(e) "Ordinance" means the Oil and Gas Development Corpora-
tion Ordinance, 1961 (Ordinance No. XXXVII of 1961 dated
September 20, 1961) as amended to the date of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1989, and ending November 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment. payable
on November 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
Section 2.09. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, or his nominee is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out by OGDC with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and pet-
roleum engineering practices and shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause OGDC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable OGDC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
OGDC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and OGDC under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association including those set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. On the basis, inter alia, of the report
furnished to it by OGDC pursuant to Section 4.03 of the Project
Agreement, the Borrower shall establish starting not later than


﻿-5-
July 1, 1980, and subsequently, not later than July 1 in each year
for the year commencing on that date, the amount, if any, required
to be paid to OGDC, in addition to OGDC's receipts from the sale
of oil and gas, for oil and gas produced at Toot in order to
ensure that OGDC, under conditions of efficient operation, will
achieve a net of taxes discounted cash flow real rate of return
for the Project of not less than 10%.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, with a view toward
improving the price structure in the energy sector, before
December 31, 1979, or such other date as shall be mutually agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, complete an energy
utilization, cost and pricing study in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
study, the Borrower shall, as necessary, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(i) from time to time consult with the Association on
the scope and adequacy of its investment programs,
including major development projects, in the oil
and gas sector; and
(ii) make available such funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the carrying out of
the said investment programs.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall from time to time, and
taking into account the findings of the study referred to in
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, endeavour to adjust petroleum
product prices so that over a period of three consecutive years
beginning with the preceding three year period ending June 30,
1980, the cumulative net receipts of the petroleum surcharge shall
be in a positive position.
(b) For the purpose of this Section "net receipts" mean
gross receipts of the petroleum surcharge less any refunds made
by the Borrower: (i) at source, including those intended to cover
inland freight deficits, subsidies on imported refined products
and oil storage operating charges, and (ii) to the refineries.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) (i) OGDC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(ii) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that OGDC will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment;
(iii) OGDC, or the Borrower, or any other authority
having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for
the dissolution or disestablishment of OGDC or for
the suspension of its operations;
(iv) a change shall have been made in the Ordinance
which will, in the judgment of the Association,
materially and adversely affect the financial
condition or operation of OGDC;
(v) a subsidiary company shall have been acquired or
taken over by OGDC, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would materially and adversely
affect the conduct of OGDC's business or OGDC's
financial situation; and
(vi) a default shall have occurred in the performance by
the Borrower or OGDC of any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrow..r to withdraw the
proceeds of the CIDA Fund or UK-grant for the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the CIDA Agreement or the UK-
grant Document, respectively, or


﻿-7-
(B) Proceeds of the CIDA Fund disbursed for the
Project shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) (i), (a) (iv),
(a) (v) and (a) (vi) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a) (iii) and (b)
(i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of OGDC have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and OGDC, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(c) CIDA has arranged to provide for services of the consul-
tants and experts specified in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Schedule 2
to the Project Agreement; and


﻿-8-
(d) arrangements satisfactory to the Association have been
made for the refining of OGDC's crude oil from its Toot field.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by OGDC, and is legally binding upon OGDC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and OGDC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and OGDC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date April 12, 1979 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 and 3.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad,
Pakistan


﻿-9-
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Nisar Ali Shah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION'
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Training and                   700,000        100% of foreign
studies                                      expenditures
(2) Drilling                     8,700,000        100% of foreign
crews and                                    expenditures
well-services
(3) Equipment and               18,600,000
materials:
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of local
factured                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) procured                                 70%
locally
(4) Unallocated                   2,000,000
TOTAL        30,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and


﻿- 11 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,500,000 may
be made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments for
the services of drilling crews made before that date but after
January 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association a:e not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way


﻿- 12 -
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to develop its
oil and gas resources at Toot and Dhodak, and consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   Toot
1.   (a) Drilling of seven production wells.
(b) Drilling of one delineation well, followed by
studies to assess reserves.
(c) Provision of (i) tractor trailers suitable for
rigging-up, supplying and supporting three drill-
ing rigs and (ii) a short take-off and landing
aircraft.
(d) Provision of materials and services for dual pro-
duction, production stimulation, and well work-
overs.
2.   Provision of facilities required to produce and tran-
sport crude oil and associated gas, including gas-oil
separators, oil and gas gathering systems, oil storage
tanks, pumps, gas dehydration units, a crude oil pipe-
line of about 20 miles, and a gas pipeline to the Sui
Northern Pipelines Ltd. trunkline.
Part B:  Dhodak
1.   Seismic survey with helicopter support, followed by
drilling of delineation wells, and studies to assess
reserves.
2.   Feasibility study for development of the Dhodak field.
Part C:  Training
Strengthening of OGDC's Oil and Gas Training Institute.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Loan period:                 not to exceed 15 years
Interest rate:               10% per annum on the principal
amount withdrawn by OGDC and
outstanding from time to time


