Report No. PID5646
Project Name                     Armenia-Electricity Transmission and (+)
Distribution Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Energy Sector and Power Sector
Project ID                       AMPE8276
Borrower                         Government of Armenia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Energy
Contact: Mr. Armen Yeghiazarian,
Project Director
Ministry of Energy
2, Government House,
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010, Armenia
Tel/Fax: (374-2)-151809
Date This PID Prepared           September 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         October 1997
Projected Board Date             January 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Armenia is a country of 3.7 million people situated on a
crossroads between Europe, the former Soviet Union (FSU), and the
Middle East. Turkey lies to the west, Georgia to the north, Iran to
the south, and Azerbaijan to the east and south-west. In face of
limited natural resources, Armenia has depended for its economic
growth on its highly educated population and strong entrepreneurial
traditions. Armenia's economic development is constrained by its
historical product composition which was highly dependent on trade
with the rest of the FSU (exports and imports represented over 50
percent of GDP during the 1980s), and on industry, which
constituted about 60 percent of the Net Material Product. Following
the break-up of the Soviet Union, Armenia endured the collapse of
regional trade, payment agreements and severe terms of trade
shocks. These difficulties were compounded by the regional conflict
over Nagorno-Karabakh, and the resulting trade and transport
blockade by Azerbaijan, and by civil strife in Georgia, blocking
Armenia's second major trade route. Output plummeted by over 60
percent between 1992-1993 and inflation increased to over 1,200
percent during 1992, and further to 10,000 in 1993. At the end of
1993, real average wages had fallen to about six percent of their
1991 level.
2.      The transition to a market economy has accelerated with an
easing of the regional political situation. Progress has been made
towards peace in the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh with the 1994
signing of an agreement formalizing the cease-fire. In addition,
Armenia's isolation from international markets has significantly
been eased by the recovery of the Georgian economy, rapidly growing



trade with Iran, and greatly increased informal trade with both
Azerbaijan and Turkey. This has allowed the Government to move away
from management of a siege economy towards the implementation of a
comprehensive stabilization and structural reform program. The
stabilization program, sustained since Spring 1994, has brought
down the budget deficit to 7 percent of GDP in 1996, less than a
sixth of the 1993 figure. Inflation dropped sharply to less than
10. Furthermore, after years of collapse, positive growth of 5.4
percent in 1994, 7 percent in 1995 was recorded. Preliminary
estimates suggest GDP grew further by 6.3 percent in 1996.
3.      However, living standards have yet to recover and poverty has
become pervasive in Armenia since 1991. The average monthly state
sector wage was about US$20 in 1996, US$11 in the budgetary sector.
Although wages are often supplemented by informal sector income,
social assistance, remittances from abroad, and humanitarian aid,
survey data reveal consumption levels barely above subsistence for
large parts of the population. In 1996, the GDP per capita, based
on the average market exchange rate, was estimated at about
US$294.7 and the GNP per capita, based on PPP, was estimated at
about US$830, making Armenia eligible for IDA terms.
4.      The challenge facing Armenia is to achieve an increase in
living standards and a reduction in poverty through a sustained
recovery in economic growth and employment. At the core of meeting
this challenge will be a radical restructuring of the role of the
state, reorienting it away from the management of production and
the provision of generalized subsidies, towards support for private
sector development and a targeting of social expenditures to the poorest.
5.      Within the energy sector, the Government stated medium-term
objectives are to:
-- strengthen the regulatory capacity of the Energy
Commission (created by the Energy Law of June 1997);
-- require all sector enterprises to adopt IAS-based
accounting for tariff-setting purposes (by mid-1998);
-- adopt a Financial Rehabilitation Plan for the power sector
(by October 1, 1997) aimed at restoring the financial
viability of sector enterprises by June 1999; and
-- adopt a sector privatization strategy (by December 1,
1997) and contract international financial advisers (by
mid-1998) to represent the state's interests in
implementing the privatization strategy.
6.      Actions already taken by the Government on sector reforms
demonstrate its commitment to commercialize the power sector. This
commitment is underscored in particular by:
(i)     Steps taken to raise prices: Since 1994, average retail
electricity tariffs have been increased from 1.4 US
cents/kWh (0.4 cents/kWh for households and 2.4
- 2 -



cents/kWh for others) to 4.2 cents/kWh at present (4.4
cents/kWh for households for consumption above a life-
line level of 100 kWh/month/household, 4.0 cents/kWh
for industry, and 5.0 cents/kWh for others). Tariffs
now cover direct operating costs and include some
allowance for commercial losses and debt service (the
average tariff is estimated to be about 80t of short-
run marginal cost). Collections have also improved from
less-than 509 in 1995 to an average 63t in 1996, and
70t in the second quarter of 1997 (about 35t of
collections are in barter);
(ii)    In response to conditions agreed during project
preparation, the Government has: adopted the Energy
Law, established the Energy Commission, consolidated
the 12 Yerevan distribution enterprises into a single
corporation and the other 40+ distribution companies
have been consolidated into 10 regional companies,
completed the separation of generation enterprises from
transmission, created a Project Implementation Unit and
appointed project and financial managers at beneficiary
enterprises.
7.      Power Supply and Investment Strategy. Following the collapse
of the Soviet Union and the ensuing regional instability, energy
supplies were constrained by the physical blockade of Armenia and
by the country's financial difficulties. While physical obstacles
have been largely overcome, they still result in higher transaction
costs than for neighboring republics, and financial limitations
have now become the dominant supply constraint. As shown below,
electricity generation has dropped considerably from the 1990 level
of 10,362 million kilowatt hours (kWh), of which 8,807 million kWh
was thermal and the balance from hydro.
Type of Generation a/      1993          1994           1995         1996
Total, million kWh      6295 (100w)    5658 (100w)    5574 (100w)  6229 (100w)
Thermal (1570 MW)*       2002 (33w)     2144 (38w)     3338 (60w)   2326 (37w)
Hydro (800 MW)           4293 (67T)     3514 (62w)     1932 (35w)    1575 (26w)
Nuclear (415 MW)             0               0          304** (5w)    2328 (37%)
a/      Available capacity is shown in parentheses
*       Natural gas and heavy fuel oil based.
8.      After being shut down in early 1989 following the
catastrophic earthquake in December 1988, Unit 2 of the Medzamor
nuclear power plant (VVER 270-440) was recommissioned in November
1995 to ease the energy supply crisis imposed by the blockade and
by the rising costs of oil and gas imports. This 415 MW unit is to
be operated for a limited period (until 2004) while alternative
supply routes and indigenous energy resources are developed. Unit 1
- 3 -



is to be maintained in a safe shut-down condition until the plant
is retired. A new, EBRD-financed 300 MW thermal power is expected
to be commissioned around 2000. While a considerable amount of
capital will be needed to rehabilitate existing power supply
facilities, new and replacement capacity is not expected to be
needed before 2004. A Least-Cost Power Investment Plan, which takes
into account the retirement of the Medzamor nuclear power plant
before 2005, was completed in November 1996 and has been broadly
accepted by the Government.
Project Objectives
9.      The proposed project would:
(i)     reduce the energy-intensity (consumption/GDP) of the
economy as a means to improve its competitiveness and
the country's energy security and reduce electricity
supply costs; electricity cost; and
(ii)    attract private investment and participation in the
power sector.
10.     Progress towards these objectives would be measured and
monitored based on:
(i)     reduced level of technical losses and
unmetered/unaccounted electricity;
(ii)    increased system availability and reduced maintenance
requirements (costs); and
(iii)   privatization of the distribution and generation
companies.
11.     Project components ($55.0 million):
(i)     System Metering ($7.0 million) between generation,
transmission and distribution companies (to support new
commercial arrangements) and within the distribution
companies (to permit internal control of electricity
and revenue flows) . This component will include energy,
current and volt meters, and testing equipment.
(ii)    Transmission System Rehabilitation ($10.0 million) and
upgrade of five (out of 14) 220 kV transmission
substations (Ekhegnadzor, Zovuni, Marash, Shaumian-2,
and Vanadzor-2) . The component will include replacement
of 220 kVand 110 kVcircuit breakers, current
transformers and switchgear, and the civil works
associated with improving the condition of the sub-stations.
(iii)   Distribution System Rehabilitation ($20.0 million) of
part of the electricity distribution networks in the
capital Yerevan, Lori, Shirak, Taush, Gegharkunik and
Aragatsotn. The component will include the replacement
- 4 -



of circuit breakers, fuses, transformers, low-voltage
panels and overhead cables; maintenance and testing
equipment and vehicles; and associated civil works and
building repairs.
(iv)    Working capital ($15 million) to support a power sector
financial rehabilitation plan. Working capital would be
used to procure about 3 months of natural gas for
thermal power generation to facilitate the reliable
supply of electricity and mitigate against the
accumulation of new expensive liabilities while old
liabilities are restructured, receivables are collected
or written off, commercial losses are reduced
(supported by the project), and commercial arrangements
under the new unbundled industry structure are consolidated.
(v)     Technical Services ($3.0 million) to commercialize
project beneficiaries (to bring their accounting and
reporting systems into conformance with the recently
adopted Energy Law), strengthen the regulatory capacity
of the Energy Commission, and facilitate project
implementation and supervision.
12.     The proposed project is to be complemented by a parallel
project of US$48.0 million (expected to be financed by Japan's
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF)) which will rehabilitate
additional transmission equipment (US$13.0 million), install the
first phase of a modern System Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
system, including the main fiber-optic communication system (US$7.0
million), introduce modern consumer metering in Yerevan (US$10.5
million), rehabilitate distribution facilities in the five regional
distribution companies not included in the World Bank-financed
project (US$15.5 million), and include implementation consultant
services (US$2.0 million). Based on OECF's processing requirements
and schedule for credit approval in early 1998, installation of
OECF-financed goods is expected to begin around end-1999.
Benefits and target population:
13.     Between mid-1998 and mid-2001, the proposed project is
expected to:
(i)     Reduce unmetered electricity supply (estimated at 15t
of supply) to less than 7.5w and begin reducing
technical losses, presently around 24t of net
generation (6t in transmission and 18t in distribution);
(ii)    Reduce forced outages due to transformer and cable
failures, thereby reducing unserved energy from around 5t to 4.6w;
(iii)   Reduce financial operating costs associated with the
poor financial condition of sector enterprises. (For
example, the cost of imported gas could be reduced by
10-15w if payments were made in cash, on a timely
basis, instead of the present system where a
- 5 -



combination of cash and bartered goods are used); and
(iv)    Facilitate the privatization of sector enterprises by
reducing investor risk (by improving financial
discipline, raising the quality of power-sector
information, strengthening the regulatory environment,
improving accounting, reporting and auditing systems,
and improving the capacity of sector staff to
collaborate with international investors).
14.     All segments of the economy will benefit from the project:
electricity consumers from improved quality of supply and from
lower tariffs than would be necessary without the project (due to
higher losses and premature replacement of capital equipment); and
the power sector, by the improved environment for attracting
investment capital and modern technology and management.
Financing
15.     Project costs, estimated at US$55 million (detailed costs to
be estimated by November 1996), are to be financed by IDA (about
$18.9 million), IBRD ($30 million) and the beneficiary enterprises
(Armenergo, Yerevan Distribution Company and the 10 regional
distribution companies). Because of the poor financial condition of
the beneficiary enterprises, and the scarcity of budgetary
resources, only about 10t of project costs are expected to be
locally funded. Also, because the restructuring of sector
enterprises is not expected to be completed before 1997-98, the
Government would be the borrower and would on-lend credit proceeds
to the beneficiary enterprises on commercial terms.
Implementation
16.     Beneficiaries of the proposed loan and credit proceeds will
be Armenergo, formerly the vertically-integrated power utility
which now retains only the national transmission and dispatch
facilities, the Yerevan Distribution Company, and the 10
distribution companies serving the rest of the country (Shirak,
Lori, Taush, Aragatsotn, Kotaik, Armavir, Ararat, Gegharkunik,
Vayots Dzor, and Siunik). All companies are presently established
as State Enterprises but are required (under Armenia's Company Law)
to be registered as joint stock corporations by January 1, 1998.
17.     A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established
within the Ministry of Energy to complete project preparation and
to execute the project on behalf of the beneficiary enterprises and
the Borrower. The PIU includes local experts from the electricity
transmission and distribution companies and internationally-
experienced consultants funded by USAID, EU and a Japanese project
preparation grant. Preparation has included: (i) feasibility
studies for the investment components, definying and justifying
project investments; (ii) financial projections for the beneficiary
enterprises and their business and project implementation plans,
and (iii) the establishment of the legal and regulatory framework.
Business plans have been prepared for the distribution enterprises
- 6 -



in Yerevan (constituting about 50t of the country's electricity
consumption). Business and detailed implementation plans for the
remaining enterprises will be prepared during the first year of
project implementation. The specific beneficiaries of credit
proceeds for the distribution component will be selected based on
their submission of suitable business and implementation plans to
the Ministry of Energy.
Sustainability
18.     After a period of severe crisis from 1991 to 1994, the
electricity supply situation in Armenia has stabilized and is
increasingly being regulated by commercial principles rather than
by political or social considerations. Damage to the networks
caused by the system overloads and improper load management has
reduced substantially and will be further mitigated through the
project. The sustainability of project benefits will be ensured
through: (i) financial rehabilitation plan for the power sector,
including collection targets, a transition to full cost-recovery
tariffs, and debt-restructuring and write-off of bad debts; (ii)
consolidation of the number of distribution enterprises (already
reduced from around 60 to 11); and (iii) privatization of
distribution enterprises.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
19.     Based on the experience under other internationally-funded
operations in Armenia, particular attention has been paid to:
(i)     Cost estimation: international prices of goods and
services have been used to mitigate the risk of under-funding;
(ii)    Local Cost Contribution: Three months of local cost
contributions/requirements are to be maintained in a
special Project Account by the project beneficiaries,
and managed by the PIU, to ensure timely provision of
local funds;
(iii)   Procurement: number of packages are to be minimized and
international technical specifications (and not former
Soviet standards) are to be used to ensure competitive
procurement of goods from international sources;
(iv)    Implementation Arrangements: A Government decree will
define procedures for internal clearance of procurement
documents and decisions. Implementation Agreements
between all beneficiaries and the Borrower, will
clearly define responsibilities and authority of the
Ministry of Energy (Government), beneficiary enterprises and PIU.
Poverty Category
20.     The proposed project is not part of the Bank's program of
targeted interventions.
-7-



Program Objective Categories
21.     The proposed project supports several aspects of the Bank's
program objectives, including the commercialization and
corporatization of public sector enterprises, and tightening
budgetary constraints associated with energy consumption, a key
element of accelerating the restructuring of the economy to a
market basis and attracting private investment into the power sub-sector.
Contact Point:           Mr. Salman Zaheer, Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-9477
Fax No.: (202) 477-8518
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending October 10, 1997.
- 8 -



Annex
Environmental Issues
1       The project has been assigned an environmental category of B.
2.      The main project-related environmental issues identified
during project preparation were: (i) noise pollution during
operation of air circuit breakers; (ii) oil leaks from
transformers; and (iii) inadequate fire prevention controls,
particularly at transformers and large oil-based circuit breakers.
3.      By November 15, 1997, USAID-funded consultants would also
have completed an environmental audit of the design, construction
and operation of electricity transmission and distribution
facilities and have prepared an environmental mitigation plan. The
type of circuit breakers to be procured under the project will
substantially reduce noise pollution. The follow-on OECF-financed
project includes the general overhaul of transmission facilities to
reduce oil leaks and install fire-protection equipment in the sub-
stations to be rehabilitated under the proposed project and the
follow-on project. Goods to be procured under the project,
including transformer oil, will be specified not to contain PCBs.
If PCBs are found in existing oil in the transformers, agreement
will be sought with the Borrower to install facilities for the safe
disposal of this oil.
9



