Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 18931 AM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR AN
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
February 8, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = Dram
US$1 = 511 Dram
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS    -    Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD    -    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERC    -    Energy Regulatory Comninission
ERR    -    Economic Rate of Return
EU    -    European Union
FIRR    -    Financial Intemal Rate of Retum
FSU    -    Former Soviet Union
GoA    -    Government of Armenia
GDP   -    Gross Domestic Product
GWh   -    Gigawatt hour (million kilowatt hours)
LAS   -    Intemational Accounting Standards
IBRD    -    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA    -    Intemational Development Agency
IDC    -    Interest During Construction
JEXIM    -    Japan Export-Import Bank
kV    -    Kilovolt
kWh   -    Kilowatt hour
LLC    -    Limited Liability Corporation
LRMC    -    Long-run Marginal Cost
MIGA    -    Multilateral Investrnent Guarantee Agency
MW    -    Megawatt
NPV    -    Net Present Value
OECF   -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PIU    -    Project Imnplementation Unit
PPF    -    Project Preparation Facility
PTI   -    Poverty Targeted Intervention
SAC    -    Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC    -    Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SCADA    -    System Control and Data Acquisition
SCJSC    -    State Closed Joint-Stock Corporation
SLA    -    Subsidiary Loan Agreement
TACIS   -    Tech. Assistance to the Commonwealth of Independent States
WB    -    World Bank
USAID    -    United States Agency for Intemational Development
VAT    -    Value-added tax
YDC    -    Yerevan Distribution Company
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director: Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Director: Hossein Razavi, ECSEG
Sector Leader: David Craig, ECSEG
Team Leader: Salman Zaheer, Senior Energy Economist, ECSEG



Armenia
Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project
Table of Contents
A   Program Purpose and Project Development Objective .......................................................2
1. Program  purpose and program  phasing ............................................................2
2. Project development objective ............................................................2
3. Key performance indicators ............................................................2
B   Strategic Context ..................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................5
4. Program  description and performance triggers for subsequent loans .............................5
C   Project Description Summary ..................................................................7
1. Project components ..................................................................7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................7
3. Benefits and target population ..................................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..............................................................8
D   Project Rationale .................................................................                                                   10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................. 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........ 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...................................................... 12
4. Indications of borrower conmmitment and ownership .................................................... 12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..........................................................                      12
E   Summary Project Analysis .................................................................                                            13
1. Economic ..........................................................                                                        13
2. Financial ..........................................................                                                       14
3. Technical ..........................................................                                                       19
4. Institutional ..........................................................                                                   20
5. Social ..........................................................                                                         21
6. Environmental assessment ..........................................................                                       22
7. Participatory approach ..........................................................                                         22
F Sustainability and Risks ............................                                                                                  23
1. Sustainability ............................                                                                               23
2. Critical Risks ............................                                                                                23
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ............................                                                                23
G Main Loan Conditions ............................                                                                                      24
1. Effectiveness Conditions ............................                                                                     24



H  Readiness for Implementation .........................                       25
I  Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                     25
Annexes
Annex 1      Project Design Summary
Annex 2      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary (including Power Supply Statistics)
Annex 5      Financial Summary for Armenergo (Transmission and Dispatch) and the Yerevan
Distribution Company
Annex 6      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8      Documents in Project File
Annex 9      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10     Country at a Glance
Annex 11     Power Sector Restructuring and Development Program
Attachment 1: Power Sector Investment Plan
Attachment 2: Power Sector Financial Rehabilitation Plan
Map of Armenia IBRD 29336



Armenia
Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia
Date: February 8, 1999                              Team Leader: Salman Zaheer
Country Director: Judy O'Connor                    Sector Director: Hossein Razavi
Project ID: AM-PE-8276                              Sector: Energy
Lending Instrument: APL                            Theme(s): Power sector restructuring
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [] Yes [x] No
IBRD/IDA      Others    Total    Commitment         Closing
US$ m    %     US$m    US$m             Date           Date
APL 1 -          21.0  64%       11.97     32.97     05/31/99      06/30/2002    Government of Armenia
Credit                       I_____     _I___
APL 2-Loan       32.0  68%       15.00     47.00     06/30/00      2123112003   GovernmentofArmenia
[3 Loan    [x I Credit       [  Grant      [  Guarantee      [3 Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount:  SDR 15 million (US$ 21 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:  [x] Standard IDA Terns  [] Multicurrency      [] Single currency
[  Standard Variable  [] Fixed             [  LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:             35
Commitment fee:                0.5%
Service charge:                0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:   N/A
Government (IDC and Commitment Fees)                                       0.17             0.17
HV Electric Network SCJSC                                   1.59                             1.59
Yerevan Distribution Company (YDC)                          2.01                            2.01
USAID                                                                      8.20              8.20
IDA                                                                       21.00            21.00
Total:                                                      3.60          29.37            32.97
Borrower: Republic of Armnenia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible Agency: Ministry of Energy, High Voltage Electric Network State Closed Joint Stock Corporation (SCJSC):
Yerevan Distribution SCJSC; Armenergo Electric Network SCJSC
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$SM:
Annual                                        0.3          3.0         9.0          8.7
Cumulative                                    0.3         3.3         12.3         21.0
Project implementation period: January 1999 (with PPF financing) to December 31, 2001
Expected effectiveness date: May 31, 1999           Expected closing date: June 30, 2002
Implementing agency: Ministry of Energy PIU, (Energy Invest SCJSC)
Contact person: Mr. Armen Yeghiazarian, Project Manager
Tel: (374-2) 15-18-09         Fax: (374-2) 15-18-09         E-mail: envest(oDsci.arn



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                2
A:  Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1.   Program purpose and program phasing (see Annex 1): The purpose of the Power Sector
Restructuring & Development Program, to be implemented by end-2003, is to:
(a)    Place the power sector on an efficient, commercial footing;
(b)    Meet the country's electricity requirements in a reliable and cost-effective manner;
(c)    Attract private capital to meet the bulk of the capital requirements in the sector; and
(d)    Elimninate quasi-fiscal subsidies provided in the form of non-payments and other non-technical
losses of electricity, and below cost recovery tariffs'.
World Bank support for the program is to be implemented in two phases. In addition to improving supply
reliability and reducing technical losses, the primary purpose of each phase will be to:
Phase 1: Reduce the amount of un-metered electricity, improve the conmnercial performance of the
transrnission company, the national dispatch company, and the Yerevan Distribution Company
(YDC) which is responsible for about 50% of electricity sales in the country, strengthen the
regulatory framework, and sell the majority shares of YDC to a strategic private investor;
Phase II: Facilitate the privatization of remaining state-owned power distribution and thermal generation
companies while ensuring reliable electricity supply, and addressing social (worker
retrenchment) and environmental (site clean-up) obstacles (if any) to successful
commercialization and privatization of the sector.
2.   Project development objectives (see Annex 1): The development objectives of the proposed
Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project are to:
(a)   Improve measurement and accountability of electricity and revenue flows between generation,
transmission and distribution companies, and within the Yerevan Distribution Company;
(b)    Reduce technical losses in the electricity transmission and YDC, and improve system availability;
(c)   Improve the commercial performance and financial condition of Armenergo (national dispatch
company), High Voltage Electric Network Company (transmission) and YDC.
3.   Key performance indicators (see Annex 1): Progress towards these objectives would be measured
and monitored based on:
(a)    By March 31, 2000: Reconciliation of electricity flows between generation, transmission, and
distribution companies, and consumers connected directly ito the transmission grid (and
verification of technical losses in transmission presently estimated at 6%);
(b)    By June 30, 2000: Inclusion of load-flow characteristics in tariff design (time-of-day pricing) and
inclusion of reasonable technical losses in tariffs;
(c)    By December 31, 2000: Electricity billed by Armenergo and YDC (as a % of net supply)
increased from 82% to 92% and collections increased from 85% to 90% of billings;
(d)    By December 31, 2000: Reduction in technical losses in transmission from 6% (to be confirrned
by metering) to 5.5%, and YDC distribution from 13.5% to 12.5%;
(e)    By June 30, 2000: Issuance of an un-qualified audit report of Armenergo (transmission and
dispatch) and YDC in accordance with International Standards for Audits; and
(e)    By September 30, 1999: Majority shares in Yerevan Distribution Company offered for
privatization to strategic investors.
The financial deficit in the sector (collected revenues - cash costs) was estimated at 4% of GDP for 1998.



Project Appraisal Document
Arnenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Proiect                               3
B:   Strategic Context
1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: 16988-AM;                  Date of latest CAS discussion: August 26, 1997
The proposed project is consistent with the CAS, the objectives of which are to: (i) consolidate the
recovery of growth through rapid development of the private sector; and (ii) ensure the social
sustainability of the reform process. Alleviating key infrastructure bottlenecks in energy (both directly
and by catalyzing private participation) is a key element of the Bank's CAS and the Government's
development strategy. The project would reduce operating costs (enabling cost-recovery at a lower
tariff), improve the reliability of electricity supply (improving industrial competitiveness, increasing
consumer welfare, and alleviating a bottleneck to private investment), and improve the conditions for
private investment in the power sector.
2.   Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Armenia is dependent on imports for about 80% of its primary energy consumption and has restricted
import options. With the exception of hydropower, all other significant energy resources (oil, gas and
nuclear fuel) are imported with the bulk of imports having to come through Georgia because of the trade
embargo by Azerbaijan and Turkey2. Given the political upheaval and conflicts in the region following
the collapse of the Soviet Union, one of the highest priorities of the Government remains that of ensuring
a secure supply of energy at reasonable prices to restore the country's economic competitiveness and to
ensure the well-being of the population. While successive Governments have made tangible progress in
meeting these objectives, their efforts have been complicated by:
(a)    A collapse in demand: Electricity demand dropped from 8,878 GWh in 1990 to about 4,500
GWh in 1997 (3,800 GWh in 1995), mainly due to the collapse of local heavy industry, and
obstacles to agricultural and electricity exports. This productive sector now consumes only about
20% of total electricity supply (compared with about 60% in 1990) with households, budgetary
organizations and public services consuming the rest (households consume about 50-55% of
supply). Peak summer and winter demand (domestic) is presently about 800 MW and 1,200 MW
respectively, with night-time demand of 300-400 MW in summer and 600 MW in winter. About
2,700 MW of the installed capacity (3,500 MW) is available, consisting of 1,900 MW of base-
load thermal (400 MW nuclear and 1,500 MW oil and gas) and about 800 MW of hydro;
(b)    The composition of demand: Generation costs are high because the low level of night-time
demand, the sizeable difference between day-time and night-time demand, and the need to
operate a relatively large nuclear unit for energy security purposes, forces sub-optimal operation
of base-load thermal plants. Generation efficiency could be improved by 8-12% through power
exports, particularly to Georgia and Turkey, both of which have a deficit of base-load capacity.
Exports to Georgia would require a strengthening of commercial arrangements, and to Turkey
would require a lifting of the trade blockade. Unit electricity costs are also particularly sensitive
to decline in demand because of the high fixed costs to maintain an infrastructure designed for
more than twice the present demand;
(c)    Financial costs of electricity supply: The high unit costs of electricity supply in Armenia are
further aggravated by the debt service obligations of the sector, estimated at about 20-25% of
sales (if paid). The energy sector's debts and payables for working capital (mainly fuel and spare
parts) as of January 1, 1998 were about US$170 mnillion ($110 million external and $60 million
2     To reduce its dependence on fossil fuel imports, Armenia restarted one of the two 440 MW units at its
Medzamor VVER 440/270 nuclear power plant in November 1995. However, as the G-7 has deemed that
plants of the VVER440 type are intrinsically unsafe, Armenia has declared its intention to not restart the
second unit and to retire the plant by end-2004. A least-cost power investment plan to enable this
retirement was completed in November 1996 and has been broadly accepted by the Government.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                 4
domestic), arising mainly from electricity theft, non-payment, subsidized electricity supplied to
vulnerable groups in 1996-1997, and low tariffs before 1996;
(d)    Ability to pay: The need to moderate the increase in electricily tariffs in order to stimulate the
recovery of the productive sector, allow public service entities (particularly drinking and
irrigation water) to improve the energy efficiency of their operations (supported by IDA), and
mitigate the social impact of higher electricity prices. While household tariffs have increased
from US cents 0.4/kWh to 5.0/kWh (as of 1/1/99), the poverty level remains high, particularly in
urban areas, where 30% of households were classified as poor in 1995 and spend less than
US$50/month on their basic needs (of which a typical energy bill is about US$10-15);
(e)    The high cost of the capital replacement program: It is estimated that about US$1.7 billion of
investments are needed over the next 15 years in the power sector alone (Least Cost Power
Investment Study, November 1996), about US$1.2 billion in generation and the rest in
transmission and distribution to compensate for the asset depletion since the collapse of the
Soviet Union and to rehabilitate and replace assets which are well beyond their economic life. Of
this amount, about US$50 million/year is needed over the next 5 years (mainly for rehabilitation)
and US$150 million/year after that (mainly for replacement);
(f)   Inadequate management capacity, incentives and tools to commercialize sector enterprises
(including insufficient metering, accounting and auditing systems); and
(g)    An untested legal and regulatory environment for private investment in the power sector.
These obstacles notwithstanding, Armenia has demonstrated significant improvements in its energy
sector. Since the energy crisis in Armenia from 1993 to 1995, when electricity was supplied for 2-4 hours
per day and its poor quality (46-48 Hz) caused serious damage to electrical equipment, Armenia has:
*     Restored reliable electricity supply - 24 hours per day at a frequency of 50 Hz;
a     Restored the reliable supply of gas for power generation and commercial consumers;
*     Improved payment discipline from <40% of supply to 65-70% of supply and 80% of billings;
a     Increased average electricity tariffs from 1.4 USc/kWh in end-1994 to 4.6 USc/kWh (on 1/1/99);
*     Adopted an Energy Law (June 1997), which, in the power sector, separates generation,
transmission, dispatch and distribution into separate companies, establishes an independent
Energy Cornmission responsible for issuing licenses, establishing market rules and setting
regulated tariffs, and separates the policy-making and ownership role of the state;
*      JUnbundled Armenergo, the vertically-integrated power company, into separate generation,
transmission, dispatch and distribution companies; and
*      Consolidated electricity distribution companies in preparation for strategic investor privatization
(from >60 in 1996 to 11 in 1997 to 4 in 1998).
Recognizing the limits of governmental efforts to improve the commnercial performance of the sector, and
the need for private investment, the Government's main goals are to create the conditions to privatize the
sector on favorable terms while ensuring secure energy supply.  The Government's Letter of
Development Policy (November 21, 1998) agreed under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (Sec. D,
para. 2) and the Power Sector Restructuring and Development Program (Annex 11), define the
Government's objectives and strategy in the power sector. Key elements of this strategy to be
implemented over the next 3 to 5 years include:
*     Further strengthening the regulatory framework in accordance with the Energy Law, including
introducing accounting, reporting and audit requirements based on international standards, and
introducing power market rules based on least-cost dispatch and competition;
*      Continuing to adjust electricity tariffs to their full cost recovery levels for each consumer
category (by end-1999);
*     Advancing the financial rehabilitation of sector enterprises as per the Government's plan, and
relying largely on the privatization proceeds (about US$148.5 million) from the transfer of



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                 5
Armgas' assets to the joint venture with Russia's Gazprom to cover working capital requirements
over the next 2-3 years (Annex 11);
*      Strengthening the technical condition and management capacity of electricity transmission and
dispatch enterprises (and possibly of hydro power plants used for system regulation), and
providing pre-privatization assistance to distribution and generation enterprises;
*     Completing the commercialization and privatization of large industrial consumers and public
utilities (water, irrigation, etc.) which are the major debtors to the energy sector;
*     Attracting a strategic private owner for the Yerevan Distribution Company in 1999-00;
*      Completing the privatization of remaining electricity distribution and thermal power generation
companies in 2000-01;
*      Addressing social implications of employment reduction, assisting service enterprises to become
competitive, strengthening public relations and privatization promotion capacity of the
Government, assisting enterprises with environmental remediation and devising a policy on
environmental liabilities; and
*      strengthening targeting mechanisms and budgetary provisions to mitigate the impact of energy
sector commercialization and privatization on the most vulnerable segments of society.
As part of its Economic and Sector Work, the Bank has assisted the Armenian authorities to define
options and a framework for privatizing power sector enterprises which has been incorporated into the
Government's Power Privatization Strategy. All sector assets, excluding the nuclear power plant and the
transmission and dispatch company, are to be privatized (less than 50% owned by the state), with a clear
preference for strategic investors.
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would significantly improve the quality of technical and financial information
available to the regulatory and state management authorities, improve the accountability of enterprise
managers, and improve the attractiveness of the sector to private investors. In part driven by the need to
reduce financial costs of the energy sector associated with its mounting debt and moderate tariff increases,
the Government has demonstrated a willingness to root out corruption in the energy sector. The proposed
investments would advance the Government's efforts with the financial recovery of the sector and meet
the financial recovery targets agreed under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-E).  As
mentioned below (B.4 and D. 1), while the private sector is better placed to improve the sector's
commercial perfornance, the lack of investor interest in Arnenia at the present time, the need to proceed
with urgent rehabilitation, and the need to improve the quality of information, justifies the use of public
funds for the proposed project and the program. Its successful implementation would reduce market risks
and the risk premium of private capital in the future.
4.   Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The program is an integral part of the Bank's strategy to address the main obstacles to the
commercialization and privatization of the Armenian power system. The program was initially envisaged
as a single operation to be financed by an IDA credit of US$18.9 million equivalent and an IBRD loan of
US$32.8 million, credit and loan negotiations for which were concluded successfully in December 1997.
However, the change of government in March 1998 and the desire of the new government to adopt a more
gradual approach to energy sector reforms has provided the basis to process the earlier project as an APL.
Investments to be financed by the program would support agreements reached under the second and third
Structural Adjustment Credits (D.2), which provide the policy underpinnings for the sector reform
program (power industry unbundling and regulatory strengthening, elimination of quasi-budgetary
subsidies provided through the power sector, and privatization). While about 70% of the estimated
US$1.7 billion of the investments needed in the power sector over the next 15 years are in generation, the



Project Appraisal Document
Annenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                 6
Govemment recognizes that the market risks associated with these investments (arising from uncertainty
of demand and inadequate financial discipline) are high and may be better borne by the private sector.
Phase I of the program (IDA US$21 million equivalent) would prepare the Yerevan Distribution
Company for privatization. It would provide the tools needed to improve management accountability at
the enterprise level and would cover essential repairs to ensure reliable electricity supply. System level
metering, technical services for strengthening commercial management, and some critical repairs will be
funded by a USAID grant. This phase would also begin the rehabilitation of important transmission sub-
stations, mainly those serving Yerevan, to mitigate supply risks.
Phase II of the program (expected to be implemented during 2000-03 and financed by an IBRD loan of
about US$32 million) would include further rehabilitation and upgrade of the electricity transmission and
dispatch facilities (which are expected to remain state-owned during the program period), rehabilitation of
distribution facilities not covered in Phase I or by other projects in preparation for their privatization, and
the provision of up to US$15 million of working capital to support continued implementation of the
Government's Financial Rehabilitation Plan after improvements in system metering and accounting.
Financing may also be considered for rehabilitation of selected hydropower plants used for frequency and
power system regulation (to ensure supply quality), retrenchment costs of downsizing sector enterprises,
and clean-up of oil-spills and other wastes to facilitate asset privatization. The program does not envisage
the use of public funds for investment in other non-nuclear generation plants.
Assuming that Armenia remains IBRD-creditworthy and implementation of Phase I is proceeding
satisfactorily, and the triggers for committing Phase II financing are:
(a)    Satisfactory implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan (Annex 11) and electricity tariffs
adjusted taking into account actual collections, cost-cutting measures, and implementation of the
Debt Restructuring Plan (also a SAC-III, 2nd tranche condition);
(b)    Satisfactory progress with implementing the USAID-funded system metering program;
(c)    Issuance of privatization documents for the Yerevan Distribution Company (also a SAC-In, 2nd
tranche condition);
(d)    Energy Commission to have issued market rules, agreed with IDA, for operation of the power
market and have contracted reputable consultants, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank,
to help the Energy Commission to strengthen and enforce these market rules;
(e)    Government to have agreed with IDA on an Action Plan to reorganize state-owned power
enterprises to improve their commercial operation and prepare them for private participation. The
plan would include benchmarks for downsizing and define service requirements and management
performance indicators (compared with international standards), and specify which services are to
be retained within each enterprise and which are to be sub-contracted;
(f)    Establishment of a suitably staffed financial settlements unit within Armenergo; and
(g)    Completion of an environmental assessment of the electricity distribution facilities and thermal
power plants, according to terms of reference agreed with IDA, in support of the Goverrnment's
power privatization strategy.
The proposed program is to be complemented by two parallel projects financed by Japan's Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (about US$42 million equivalent) and Germany's KfW (about US$18
million equivalent). OECF would finance the rehabilitation of additional transmission sub-stations
(US$12 million), the installation of the first phase of a modern System Control and Data Acquisition
(SCADA) system, including the main fiber-optic communication system (US$7 million), introduction of
modern consumer metering in Yerevan (US$8 million), rehabilitation of distribution facilities in the three
regional distribution companies and part of Yerevan not included in the ]3ank-financed program (US$14
million), and implementation consultant services (US$1.0 million). OECF credit approval is expected in
February 1999 and installation of OECF-financed goods is expected to begin in mid-2000. KfW would
finance the rehabilitation of two transmission sub-stations at Kamo and Kanaker (1999-2000).



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                         7
C:   Project Description Summary
1.    Project components: (see Annex 2 for detailed description and Annex 3 for detailed costs).
Cost*  % of       WB Financing
Component                                    Cateforv               MUS$  Total    mUS$   % of Loan
A. System Metering3(covering commercial                                7.25 22.1%      0.00      0.0%
transaction points between generation,
transmission and distribution)
B. Transmission Rehabilitation: Substations at  Physical               9.11  27.8%     8.17     38.9%
Ekhegnadzor, Zovuni, Marash and Shaumian-2
(Circuit breakers and current transformers)
C. Distribution Rehabilitation in Yerevan:   Physical                 13.44 41.0%      9.83     46.8%
(i) Circuit breakers, cables, etc.       Physical                 11.54            9.83
(ii) Equipment for accounting/billing (USAID) Physical             1.90            0.00
D. Strengthening of the national dispatch center Physical              1.00  3.0%      1.00      4.8%
(Armenergo) (computers and software)
E. Operating costs of the PIU                Proj. Mgmt.               0.40  1.2%      0.40      1.9%
F. Consultant services and training                                    1.60  4.9%      1.60      7.6%
(i) Procurement and implementation supervision4  Proj. Mgmt.           1.20
(ii) External audit of Armenergo and YDC     Fin. Mgmt.                0.20
(iii) Management strengthening of Armenergo  Inst. Bldg.               0.20
TOTAL PROJECT COST'                                                  32.80  100%      21.00      100%
Interest During Construction (IDA)                                     0.14    -       0.0
Conmmlitment Fees                                                     0.02             0.0
Total Financing Required                                             32.97 100.5%    21.00       100%
2.    Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
X     Strengthening of commercial relations between generation, transmission/dispatch and distribution
companies (based on improved metering);
*     Tariff reforms (by improving quality of technical and financial information used in tariff-setting);
*     Privatization of the Yerevan Distribution Company.
3.   Benefits and target population:
Between 1999 and end-200 1, the proposed project (and the program) are expected to:
(a)    Reduce unmetered electricity supply, estimated at 20% of net supply (or a generation cost of $30-
35 million), to less than 5%;
(b)    Reduce forced outages resulting from transformer and cable failures, thereby reducing unserved
energy by about 10%;
(c)    Reduce financial operating costs associated with the poor financial condition of sector enterprises.
(For example, about 15-20% of revenues are presently used to service sector debt resulting from
theft and non-payment for electricity); and
(d)    Facilitate the privatization of sector enterprises by reducing investor risk (by improving financial
discipline, raising the quality of power-sector information, strengthening the regulatory
enviromnent, improving accounting, reporting and auditing systems, and improving the capacity
of sector staff to collaborate with international investors).
3      Exact scope/cost to be finalized by February 28, 1999. USAID is expected to finance foreign costs of
system metering and comnputerization of distribution companies (up to $15 million).
4      Includes $0.2 million for technical services to the project implementation unit.
Estimated costs include contingencies and US$2.0 million under a Project Preparation Facility. Projects
financed by international financial institutions have been exempted from taxes and duties.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                 8
All segments of the economy will benefit from the project: consumers from improved reliability of supply
and from lower tariffs than would be necessary without the project (due to higher losses and premature
replacement of capital equipment); and the power sector, by the improved environment for attracting
investment capital, provision of modern technical equipment and improved management.
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation period: January 1, 1999- December 31, 2001, beginning with PPF financing.
Executing agency: Ministry of Energy through a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), EnergyInvest,
established as a state closed joint-stock corporation (SCJSC) under the Ministries of Finance and
Economy and the Ministry of Energy. A Govermment decree issued on February 20, 1998, established the
PIU and defined its responsibilities, authority, and contracting procedures. The PIU is being staffed with
representatives of the Ministry of Energy, the beneficiary enterprises, and external consultants with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. Under subsidiary loan agreements, all beneficiary
enterprises and the Borrower will authorize the PIU to execute the project on their behalf.
Project Beneficiaries: Beneficiaries of the proposed credit proceeds will be:
(a)    High Voltage Electric Network State Closed Joint Stock Corporation (SCJSC) ($8.2 mnillion);
(b)    Yerevan Distribution SCJSC (US$9.8 million), and
(c)    Armenergo Electric Network SCJSC, which now retains only the dispatch and financial
settlements functions for the sector (US$1.0 million).
The Ministry of Energy will manage credit proceeds for technical assistance and audits ($1.6 million) and
for operating costs of the Project Implementation Unit ($0.4 million).
Project coordination: As stated above, implementation of the proposed project and the parallel OECF-
financed project will be managed by a single PIU, EnergyInvest. Implementation of the USAID-funded
component will be managed by USAID consultants.
Project oversight: The Ministry of Energy will be responsible for overall project supervision and for
specific oversight of introduction of lAS-based accounting and internal financial controls by the project
beneficiaries, audit of project accounts and annual financial statements of beneficiary enterprises by an
internationally reputed auditor, and monitoring of the loss-reduction program. In coordination with the
Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Energy will also implement the sector's financial
rehabilitation plan (collections, restructuring of debt, etc.) and coordinate the privatization of sector
enterprises (as agreed under SAC-III).
On-lending arrangements: The IDA credit will be provided to Armenia (represented by the Ministry of
Finance and Economy). Credit proceeds will be on-lent to the beneficiaries (see above) for a period of 20
years, including a 5-year grace period for principal and interest payments, at the prevailing IBRD variable
rate for currency pool loans plus a small margin (0.5%) to cover the Borrower's administrative costs.
Interest due during the first three years will be capitalized and beneficiaries would repay the Borrower in
the local currency at prevailing exchange rates. Funds for consultant services managed by the Ministry of
Energy will be provided as a Government grant.
On-lending arrangements will be covered by separate subsidiary loan agreements (SLAs) between the
Government and each beneficiary (to be concluded before effectiveness). The SLAs would define on-
lending and repayment terms, financing of local costs not covered by the credit, role and functions of the
Project Implementation Unit, project implementation plan, and performance targets to be met by
beneficiaries. The SLAs would also require beneficiaries to: (i) adhere to sound management an-d
operating practices (including the contracting of consultant services by Armenergo to strengthen its
management capacity); (ii) maintain accounts in accordance with international accounting standards



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia ElectriciLt Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                9
(IAS) as well as prevailing Armenian standards; and (iii) have their annual financial statements,
beginning with 1998 statements, audited by internationally-reputable independent auditors. Draft SLAs,
acceptable to the Bank, have been prepared and will be finalized after credit signing.
In addition to the SLAs, IDA will also concluded a separate Project Agreement with the Yerevan
Distribution Company, which is expected to be privatized during the project period. Project Agreements
with other beneficiaries were not deemed necessary at this time because they are expected to remain state-
owned and controlled during the program period and because of additional time needed to consolidate the
recent separation of transmission and dispatch entities (formerly part of Armenergo).
Accounting. financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The project is designed to strengthen
accounting, internal controls, reporting and auditing arrangements at the enterprise and project levels
(E.2). Project accounts will be maintained by the PIU and all transactions will be recorded in accordance
with international accounting standards. A qualified firm has been contracted, under PPF financing, to set
up an accounting and financial management information system for the Project and train PIR staff.
Consultant terms of reference require the Consultant to ensure that the project accounting and
management system complies with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), reliably records
and reports all assets, liabilities and financial transactions of the project, including the Special Accounts
and statements of expenditure (SOEs), and provides sufficient financial information for managing and
monitoring project activities. The on-going project in the energy sector (Power Maintenance Project) is in
compliance with all audit covenants.
To facilitate project implementation the Borrower will establish a Special Account, managed by the PIU,
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, to cover IDA-financed expenditures. To ensure that
local financing is available on a timely basis, the Borrower will also establish a dedicated Project Account
to cover the share of project-related expenditures to be financed by the beneficiary enterprises.
Project accounts (including SOEs and Special Accounts) and annual financial statements of Armenergo,
the High Voltage Network Company (HVENC) and the Yerevan Distribution Company (YDC) will be
audited by qualified independent auditors, in accordance with international standards for audits.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The Ministry of Energy will be responsible for monitoring
progress with the project's implementation and will evaluate the extent to which the project flulfills its
objectives. The Ministry of Energy may also adjust the project's design and its implementation
arrangements, provided these changes are acceptable to the Bank.
Defined below is the conditionality framework covering project execution, as agreed during negotiations:
As conditions of credit effectiveness, the Borrower would have:
(i)    contracted a procurement consultingfirm under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   opened a Project Account in a commercial bank with an initial deposit sufficient to cover at least
three months of local costs (equivalent to at least US$250,000);
(iii)  submitted to the Bank all signed subsidiary loan agreements and necessary legal opinions;
(iv)   established a project management information system, including project accounts and a control
system adequate to satisfy the Bank's disbursement procedures and project financial policies;
Letters of Invitation have been sent to short-listed procurement consulting firms and a Consultant is
expected to be contracted by April 30, 1999.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                10
Agreement was also reached with the Borrower during negotiations:
(i)   to maintain an adequately staffed PIU, with staff and consultants with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)   to submit to the Bank the audit reports and auditedfinancial statements for the Special Account,
project accounts and Statements of Expenditure for each fiscal year not later than six months
after the close of such year;
(iii)   on key Project Monitoring Indicators;
(iv)   to submit to the Bank, by August 31, 2000, a report integrating ihe results of project monitoring
and evaluation, the progress achieved in project implementation, and proposed measures to
achieve project objectives, and review this report with the Bank by September 30, 2000; and
(v)   to ensure that the balance in the Project Account is always at least at the level to finance the
following 3 months of local costs.
D:   Project Rationale
1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Up-front privatization of distribution enterprises was considered but ruled out because of the:
(i)   lack of investor interest at the present time due largely to the country's uncertain political and
economic prospects (over 20 international utilities/investors contacted by Armenian authorities
and the Bank in 1997 were not interested in seriously investigating investment opportunities at
this time, or even considering a performance-based management contract); and
(ii)   need to quickly finance the investments and consultant services and training to improve the
reliability of supply and to support sector reforms, including requilrements of the Energy Law and
collection and restructuring targets under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit. These in tum
will facilitate privatization.
The proposed project will prepare the baseline information needed for privatization and reduce investor
risks, while the privatization assistance under the Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance
Credit (SATAC-II) will permit privatization of the power sector on terms more favorable for Arrnenia
than without the project.
2.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other develolpment agencies:
The Bank has financed one related on-going power project and three structural adjustment operations
(each with important energy policy reforms):
Power Maintenance Project (IDA Credit of US$13.7 million approved December 1994). Proceeds have
been used to restore the reliability of about 600 MW of thermal and 150 MW of hydro generation
capacity, and to improve the availability of selected electricity distribution facilities. About 95% of the
credit has been disbursed and the project's IP and DO ratings are satisfactoay.
Structural Adjustment Credit (US$60 million approved February 1996). Electricity tariffs were raised
to cover operating and maintenance costs (April 1, 1996), discounts to privileged/vulnerable groups were
eliminated (July 1997), collections for electricity reached 75% of supply by end- 1996 (about 60% average
for the year), and an Energy Law was adopted (June 1997). Power generation, transmission and
distribution were legally separated. However, some economies of scale were lost with the creation of
over 60 distribution companies, consolidated into 11 in 1997. IP and DO ratings were satisfactorv.
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-II) (US$60 million approved August 26, 1997). A
Financial Rehabilitation Plan and Privatization Strategy for the power sector was adopted (Decree 551,
December 1997) under which collections (as a percentage of supply) were to have been increased to 80%



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                              11
by June 30, 1998 and electricity tariffs were to have been increased by 15-20% from April 1, 1998 to
include coverage of 1998 debt-service costs of the restructured sector debt. The Financial Rehabilitation
Plan was modified in September 1998 (Government Decree 555) taking into account actual performance,
a more realistic program to restore the financial condition of drinking water and irrigation sectors, main
debtors to the power sector, and the use of privatization proceeds to cover the financial losses of the
power sector. SAC-Il targets were partially met as of January 1, 1999: Collections for September,
October and November averaged 85% of the amount billed and 70% of estimated supply, the average
electricity tariff was increased by 12.5% (see E.2(b)), and an international financial advisor was
contracted to assist with power privatization.  Furthermore, in preparation for privatization, the
distribution companies were further consolidated from over 11 to 4 (including the Yerevan Distribution
Company) and Armenergo re-constituted into a dispatch and financial settlements company following the
creation of a high voltage transnission company. Funds from SATAC-II are being used to implement
international accounting standards in the power sector in support of the proposed project. IP and DO
ratings were satisfactory.
Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-III) (US$65 million approved December 22, 1998).
Measures in the power sector include satisfactory implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan
(Annex 11), improvement in the accountability of enterprise managers by introducing international
accounting standards and having accounts audited according to international standards for audits, and the
offering of the Yerevan Distribution Company for privatization.
Other development agencies
USAID
The US Govermment is assisting with the commercialization of the energy sector through technical
assistance, supply of working capital (commodities, including natural gas and spare parts) to cover critical
shortages during the transition to full commercialization, and metering and billing equipment. US$15
million of gas was supplied in 1996 and US$30 million in 1997. The gas is passed through to energy
enterprises at commercial prices. An additional US$15 million was committed in 1998, a substantial part
of which is to be used to finance system meters included in the proposed project. The USAID-supported
assistance complements energy sector reforms agreed under SAC operations and the proposed project and
includes consultant services and training to implement these reforms. Specific reforms, which will also
help sustain benefits of the proposed project, include establishment of a Financial Settlements Unit in
Armenergo, assistance to the Energy Commission in its operations and in the creation of a transparent
power market in Armenia, and commercialization assistance to the distribution companies. The US
Government is also assisting with safety improvements at the nuclear power plant.
Government of Japan
Proposed OECF financing of about US$42 million equivalent to complement the proposed project (Sec.
B.4). Japan has also provided humanitarian assistance in the form of fuel for heating and a Policy and
Human Resource Development grant for project preparation.
Government of France
Safety improvement of the nuclear power plant and storage facilities for spent nuclear fuel, and
rehabilitation of small hydropower plants.
EU TACIS
Consultant services and training for identifying and promoting investment opportunities in the energy
sector, feasibility studies to rehabilitate the gas supply network, institutional reforms in the gas sector, and
an Energy Center to promote energy efficiency.
KfW (Govenment of Germany): Rehabilitation of a hydro power plant (DM25 million) and transmission
sub-stations (DM28 million). The rehabilitation of one or two units at the Kanaker hydro power plant



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                12
(25-38 MW) is expected to be completed inl999. KfW is also considering financing the rehabilitation of
two transmission sub-stations at Vanadzor and Kamo.
EBRD: Hxazdan Unit No. 5 Power Project (US$164 million - $57.4 million EBRD, additional EBRD and
JEXIM financing expected). The project would complete a 300 MW dual gas/oil fired generation unit
started under the FSU. Initial financing approved by EBRD in 1993 to facilitate early retirement of the
Medzamor nuclear power plant. As appraised in 1993, the plant was estimated to cost about US$90
million; however, price escalation has almost doubled initial estimates and additional financing, including
from private sources, is being sought to complete construction by 2000.
Swiss Government: Consultant services for preparation of the proposed project.
3    Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
Based on the experience under other intemationally-funded operations in Armenia, particular attention
has been paid to:
(i)    Cost estimation: international prices have been used to mitigate risk of under-funding;
(ii)   Local Cost Contribution: Three months of local cost contributions/requirements are to be
maintained in a special Project Account by the project beneficiaries, and managed by the PIU, to
ensure timely provision of local funds;
(iii)   Procurement: number of packages are to be minimized and international technical specifications
(and not FSU standards) shall be used to ensure competitive procurement of goods;
(iv)   Implementation Arrangements: A Government decree defines procedures for intemal clearance of
procurement documents and decisions (C.4). Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be signed by all
beneficiaries and the Borrower as a condition of effectiveness, will clearly define responsibilities
and authority of the Ministry of Energy (Govemment), beneficiary enterprises and PIU (C.4).
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
As described above (B.2), actions taken by the Government on sector reforms demonstrate its
commitment to commercialize the power sector. This commitment is underscored in particular by:
(a)    The wide and intensive discussion of the energy sector financial rehabilitation plan within
Government and with Parliament, and the need for the proposed project/program to address the
main causes of the poor financial condition of the sector;
(b)    Steps taken to raise electricity prices and increase the transparency and accountability over the
use of revenues, including the recent increase on January 1, 1999 by 12.5%;
(c)   In response to key issues identified during project preparation, the Government has: adopted a
suitable Energy Law, established an autonomous Energy Comnmission, consolidated the 12
Yerevan distribution enterprises into a single company and the other 40+ distribution companies
into 3 regional companies, completed the separation of generation enterprises from transmission,
approved a satisfactory power privatization strategy and contracted an international consultant to
help with the implementation of this privatization strategy; and
(d)    Steps taken to expedite project implementation (staffing of PIU and procurement training,
contracting of procurement consultants, etc.) funded from a PPF fDr the proposed project.
5.   Value added of Bank support in this project:
As mentioned above (Sec. B and D), through a combination of adjustmient and investrnent operations,
including the proposed project, the Bank has played a crucial role in advancing reforms in the energy
sector. The project provides the investments and consultant services to commercialize the most difficult
part of the power sector - the interface between consumers and suppliers - and prepare the main
distribution company for privatization. The project's satisfactory implementation is expected to restore
the financial condition of the power sector and facilitate private investment on more affordable terms than



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                13
would be possible without the Bank's involvement. Furthermore, based on the Bank's involvement,
Japan's OECF has agreed to provide a loan of about US$42 million equivalent to finance additional
rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution infrastructure.
E:   Summary Project Analysis
1.   Economic Assessment (see Annex 4):
Cost-Benefit Analysis (of investmnent program): ERR = 24%; NPV = US$106.2 million
The proposed project, complemented by investments financed in parallel by OECF and by Phase II of the
APL, constitutes the first phase of a 15-year rehabilitation investment program (see "Costs" below) for
the transmission and distribution system. The economic appraisal has been carried out by comparing
"with program" and "without program" costs and benefits. Because the main project/program benefit of
improved system reliability requires both transmission and distribution networks to be rehabilitated
together, the analysis has been combined for the transmission and distribution components. In the
economic analysis, provision of working capital (APL Phase II) is taken as necessary to achieve projected
improvements in system availability and no additional benefits have been attributed to this component.
Program Costs (based on Feasibility Studies completed in July 1997): The following costs have been
included in the economic analysis:
(a)    Investments in system rehabilitation and metering. The least-cost rehabilitation of existing
transmission and distribution facilities is roughly estimated to cost US$400 million in constant
1997 US$ (about US$150 million in transmission and the rest in distribution) and be
implemented over 15 years (1998-2012)6. The proposed project and the OECF-financed project
are assumed to cover the complete 1998-01 transmission and distribution rehabilitation
investment program, and be supplemented by other sources of capital beginning in 2002. More
accurate cost estimates for the post-2002 part of the rehabilitation program will be available upon
completion of the detailed rehabilitation master plan included in the proposed project. The
program remains economically viable (ERR>10%) up to a 53% escalation in capital costs;
(b)    Incremental operating costs associated with these investments (1.5% of capital costs); and
(c)    Working capital for natural gas.
Economic Benefits: The following benefits have been quantified:
(a)    Enhanced  system  availability (reduction in equipment failures) through rehabilitation.
Availability of the transmission and distribution system is expected to increase from the present
level of 95% to 99.9% over 15 years (or drop to 90% over the same period without the program).
(b)    Reduced technical losses through rehabilitation and better load management (facilitated by
system metering). Losses in transmission (>35 kV) are estimated to decrease from 6% to 4% (of
net generation) over the program period while losses in distribution are projected to decline from
15% to 10% (of net supply from transmission). This is equivalent to combined transmission and
distribution losses decreasing from 20% in 1996 to 12% (the pre-1990 level).
Non-quantified benefits include the potential reduction in gas (and generation) costs through successful
implementation of the financial rehabilitation plan, further reduction in technical losses and
improvements in availability (with better maintenance from improved cash-flow), and the privatization of
6     Additional investments are needed to fiurther strengthen interconnections with neighboring countries,
expand the SCADA systerm, and upgrade the distribution system. These costs have not been included in the
analysis.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                14
sector enterprises on better terms than without the project (through improved financial condition of the
sector, training of sector staff and information, and a more transparent regulatory environment).
Quantification of benefits is made difficult by the lack of system metering and poor quality of data on the
causes of forced outages (in addition to equipment failure, causes include erratic supply of fuel for
thermal generation, and load-shedding to maintain system frequency and stability). It is estimated that in
1996, only 70% of the electricity supplied to the transmission network was actually "billed" (or clearly
accounted for). Technical and non-technical losses were about 30% of which technical losses were
estimated at 18-25%. The installation of system meters would permit measurement of technical and
commercial losses and identify the sources of theft and reduce commercial losses. In order for the
benefits to be sustainable, the project would institute IAS-based accounting and internal controls within
beneficiary enterprises; and support a sector financial rehabilitation plan (Annex 11).
Valuation of Economic Benefits:
(a)    Electricity demand forecasts are based on GDP growth projected by the Bank taking into account
improvements in energy efficiency and a reduction of losses. These demand forecasts were used
for the least-cost power sector investment plan (November 1996); they project electricity demand
growing at between 5% and 7% annually and reaching the 1988 level by 2010;
(b)    Savings derived from the reduction in technical losses have been valued at the long-run marginal
cost (LRMC) of generation, estimated to be U$ cents 3.75/kWh for Annenia, based on a gas cost
of US$80 per thousand cubic meters and a 10% discount rate;
(c)    Unserved energy has been valued at US$0.15/kWh based on the, cost of non-network electricity
supply (gasoline generators operated by households and diesel generators operated by industries).
In more industrial economies, unserved energy is valued as high as US$1.0/kWh; however, this is
considered high for Armenia where only about 25% of electricity is consumed by industry. The
incremental cost of supplying this energy is taken as the LRMC of generation.
2.     Financial Assessment (see Annex 5)
E.2(a) Project/Program Financial Analysis
Cost-Benefit Analysis (of investment program): FIRR = 23%; NPV = US$71.1 million
The proposed project is part of the transmission and distribution rehabilitation program and the financial
analysis has been done on a "with" and "without" program basis. The analysis mirrors the economic
analysis discussed above, with the exception that the reduction of theft and unmetered electricity
consumption ("commercial losses") has been included as a benefit. Commercial losses not included in
the tariff are projected to drop from 13% to 7.5% by 2001 and further to 2.5% by 2012, the end of the
investment program period. Without the project/program, commercial losses are projected to continue
declining at a slower rate (to 10% by 2012), but mainly through better organization and incentives.
Benefits have been valued based on the Energy Commission's stated intention to raise retail tariffs from
the present average US cents 4.2/kWh (including 20% VAT) to full-cost recovery levels by end-1999 (in
constant 1997 prices). During the program period average generation tariffs are assumed to be raised to
about US cents 3.0/kWh; and transmission and distribution margins are expected to be about US cents
0.5-0.7 and 1.5-2.0 per kWh respectively.
E.2(b) Adequacy of project financing plan: On account of the poor financial condition of beneficiary
enterprises and tight constraints on the state budget, it is proposed that IDA finance all foreign costs of the
IDA-financed components. USAID is expected to finance the foreign costs of the metering component
and all costs for management strengthening in YDC. The financing plan is summarized below:



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                   15
Project Financing Plan
<--- Costs, m.US$    >              % of
Local Foreign    Total       Financing
Government (IDC and Commitnent Fees)                     0.17     0.17            0.5%
IDA                                                     21.00    21.00           63.7%
USAID (Metering & Computerization)                       8.20     8.20           24.9%
HV Electric Network Company                      1.59              1.59           4.8%
Yerevan Distribution Company                     2.01             2.01            6.1%
Total                                            3.60   29.37    32.97          100.0%
E.2(c) Fiscal impact: While the proposed project does not require budgetary expenditures (all local
financing is to be provided by the beneficiary enterprises), the poor financial condition of the beneficiary
enterprises, resulting in large part from Govemment policies in the past, requires the Government to
exempt project investments from taxes and duties. The on-lending of credit proceeds at the prevailing
IBRD variable rate plus a 0.5% margin will contribute to the fiscal budget after the 5-year grace period.
Value-added taxes associated with increased sales from improved system availability, estimated to have a
present value of US$9.4 million, and profit taxes will also contribute to the budget. Finally, successful
implementation of the financial rehabilitation plan, supported by the project, would eliminate quasi-fiscal
subsidies estimated at 4% of GDP for 1998.
E.2(d) Sector Financial Issues
Resumption of economic growth in the last few years and aggressive steps taken by the Government on
raising tariffs and enforcing payment discipline continue to improve the cash-flow situation in the power
sector. However, these improvements are not sufficient to fully service the stock of debt and arrears, and
prevent new arrears from accumulating because of less-than full collection of tariffs over the next 2 years.
Furthermore, accounting and control systems have still not developed sufficiently to permit a useful audit
of enterprises and ensure that resources are properly employed. The Bank's strategy under the proposed
project (and measures agreed under SAC-III) is to:
(i)    finance investments and consultant services to support the financial recovery of the power sector;
(ii)   recapitalize Armenergo, presently the single wholesale buyer and seller of electricity, by
financing working capital under Phase 2 of the APL so that it can pay its suppliers and other
creditors, and limit the growth of new, high cost liabilities resulting from less-than-full tariff
collections during the transition to full commercialization (collections are targeted to reach 85%
by end-1998 and 90% average for 1999);
(iii)   monitor implementation of the energy sector financial rehabilitation plan (see below);
(iv)   finance consultant services and training (under SATAC-II) to implement IAS-based accounting
and financial controls within sector enterprises to enable an "unqualified" audit by June 2000; and
(v)    strengthen the Energy Commission so that it can competently implement the Energy Law which,
inter alia, requires tariffs to fully cover O&M costs, amortization based on assets revalued
according to international standards, and capital costs, including a return on equity. The Law
provides a 2-year transition to full-cost tariffs and licensees to establish a uniform system of
financial and economic reporting based on LAS.
Collection Targets: Through better organization and monitoring, average collections for electricity from
end-users have increased from about 63% (average for 1996) to about 68% for 1997, and are targeted to
average 72% for 1998 and 80% of supply or 90% of billings for 1999 (see Annex 11).
Electricity Tariffs: With the objective of reaching full cost recovery levels by July 1999, as required under
the Energy Law, the Energy Regulatory Commission has announced a 12.5% adjustment in the average
electricity tariff, effective January 1, 1999. It has also agreed on a timetable for bi-annual tariff reviews



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                                16
with IDA, with the next review to be completed by July 1, 1999. Prior to this increase, taiffs were
increased on September 1, 1997 from an average of 17.3 drams/kWh to 20.4 drams/kWh (including 20%
VAT). These tariffs may be compared with an average retail tariff of 1.4 US cents/kWh in 1994 (0.4
cents/kWh for households and 2.4 cents/kWh for others).
Tariffs, drams fUS cents) Per kWh
Sept. 1, 1997   Jan. 1,1999
Weighted Average:                          20.4 (4.1)       23.6 (4.6)
Household tariffs: Average                 19.8 (3.9)       25.0 (4.9)
Life-line (100 kWh/month)              15.0 (3.0)       Eliminated
100 to 250 kWh/month                  22.0 (4.4)       Eliminated
Above 250 kWh/month                    25.0 (5.0)       Single tariff
Other Low Voltage:   0.4 kV                 25.0 (5.0)       25.0 (4.9)
Medium voltage:       Mainly 6/10 kV        20.0 (4.0)       20.0 (3.9)
High Voltage:         >35 kV                 16.0 (3.2)      16.0 (3.1)
Generation tariff:    Average                12.0 (2.4)      Not available
Transmission margin: Average                3.3 (0.7)        Not available
Distribution margin:   Average              5.4 (1.1)        Not available
Tariffs include coverage of O&M costs, technical losses of 18.5% of net generation plus import, and
partial debt service. Distribution companies buy electricity from Armenergo at different prices depending
on their cost structure and customer base.
Further to agreements reached under SAC-Ill, it was also agreed that the Borrower's Energy Regulatory
Commission will ensure that average electricity tariffs for Armenergo, H1VENC and YDC in 1999, 2000
and 2001 are sufficient to at least cover reasonable operating and maintenance costs, debt-service
requirements, and depreciation based on revalued useful assets.
Financial Rehabilitation Plan: Following measures taken by the Government under Decree #551
"Measures for Financial Rehabilitation of the Energy Sector" (December 2, 1997), the Government issued
a new Decree 555, dated September 7, 1998, to further improve the financial condition of the sector,
prepare the sector for privatization, and privatize key enterprises in accordance with its privatization
strategy (Decree 551) which seeks to attract strategic investors. Key elements of Decree 555 and
subsequent agreements reached with IDA during SAC-HI negotiations (Annex 11) include:
(a)    an increase in electricity tariffs by 12.5% by January 1, 1999 and six-monthly tariff reviews to
assess the sector's performance against an agreed set of revenue and cost targets and to take
appropriate measures, including tariff adjustments, to adhere to the financial recovery plan;
(b)    clearance of all budgetary arrears to the energy sector and average collections of at least 85% of
billings for September, October and November 1998, and collection targets up to 2001;
(c)    definition of mechanisms to mitigate arrears build-up from chronic defaulters, including cut-off
policy and budget allocations;
(d)    Adoption of at least 10 lAS by power sector enterprises beginning from January 1, 1999 and
having 1998 and 1999 accounts of Armenergo (transmission and dispatch) and Yerevan
Distribution Company audited by international auditors;
(e)   restructuring of the power, gas and heat sector's domestic debt (aLnd payables) accumulated as of
October 1, 1998, with 85% of the debt to be restructured by Decemnber 31, 1999; and
(f)    Revaluing, by the end of 1999, power sector assets in accordance with Government policy to link
revaluation either to asset value determined by competitive privatization, or based on a 3-year
investment program and debt-service requirements for state-owned enterprises.
Stock of Debt. As of April 1, 1997, total energy sector payables and receivables were estimated at 76.5
billion drains ($156.2 million) and 75.3 billion drams ($153.7 million) respectively. About 85-90% of



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                   17
these debts were attributable to the power sector and are reflected in Armenergo's financial statements.
Under the Financial Rehabilitation Plan, adopted on December 5, 1997, about 40% of the sector's debt
was written off. A revised status of receivables and payables, and a restructuring schedule, is to be
provided to IDA by March 31, 1999. Furthermore, operating losses in 1998-00, resulting from less-than
full collection of tariffs, are to be financed by supplier credits, debt-for-equity conversion through the
recent sale of the Armenian gas company to Russia's Gazprom' and, if necessary, from loan proceeds
under Phase II of the APL.
E.2(e) Financial Assessment of Project Entities.
Background. Given the fluid structure of the power sector in its transition to a market system and the
poor quality of financial data, the assessment of historical financial statements is of little value. However,
a financial assessment has been made of the January 1, 1997 opening statements of Armenergo
(transmission and dispatch business only) and the constituted financial statements of the Yerevan
Distribution Company (as YDC was not yet consolidated). Financial projections are based on these
statements, and assessments of the Bank, sector authorities and the Energy Commission (see below).
Specific problems with historical accounts include: (i) sales recorded when cash is collected not when
goods are delivered; (ii) the real value of current assets (accounts receivable) is grossly overstated
because all uncollected bills and unmetered supply in excess of "normative" losses are classified as
accounts receivable with no write-off of bad debts; (iii) accounts receivable are recorded on a production
cost basis, and not on a sales-price basis; (iv) although the value of fixed assets and depreciation are
adjusted periodically, they do not reflect a reasonable value of the assets; (v) financial transactions are
recorded cumulatively making it difficult to analyze a company's perfornance between periods; and (vi)
given the low book value of fixed assets (and corresponding low value of equity), the writing-off of
estimated bad debts results in a negative net worth for the companies.
In addition, sector restructuring during the transition following the collapse of the Soviet Union has
increased the complexity of financial reporting because: (i) of the amount of financial recording necessary
for proper allocation of assets and liabilities to each new entity resulting from the breakup of the
vertically integrated power company; and (ii) the sudden increase in distribution companies from one in
1994 to more than 50 in 1996 and the shortage of qualified accountants has resulted in a wide variation in
the quality of financial recording and reporting at the company level. (For example, since June 1996
accounting regulations allow the expensing of bad debt; however, the absence of clear guidelines resulted
in company accountants not taking the initiative to write-off these losses and reduce tax liability).
Finally, the existing internal and external control environment is weak because of: (i) the lack of physical
infrastructure such as system metering or secured wiring in the network; (ii) the lack of institutional
infrastructure such as division of cash handling and billing personnel within the company; (iii) non-
existent operational financial audit requirements; and (iv) poor incentives and inadequate salaries for
sector employees (average monthly salaries of about US$80).
Financial Assessment. As defined above, the project will support the introduction of LAS in order to
allow a meaningful external audit by June 30, 2000. The financial assessment of Arrnenergo and Yerevan
Distribution Company, based on a restatement of 1996 financial statements in accordance with LAS, is
summarized below. Summary statements and main assumptions are presented in Annex 5. As the single
wholesale buyer and seller of electricity, Armenergo's financial statements reflect the financial
condition of the Armenian power sector.
7      55% of Armgas equity, valued at US$270 million, is being transferred to Russia's Gazprom (45%) and to
ITERA International Energy LLC, a US registered private gas trading comnpany (10%) during 1998-01,
mainly in exchange for gas.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                18
ARMENERGO
Armenergo's transmission and dispatch business was isolated from the company's other activities for
project assessment8; however, inter company allocations need to be audited and verified in the first year
of LAS implementation. Financial highlights of 1996, after restatement to an accruals basis, are:
*     Revenues (on an accruals basis) of 43.1 billion drams and an operating income of 3.7 billion
drams. The effective operating margin was 9% of sales.
*      Contrary to a typical utility, Armenergo's fixed assets have a low residual value (1,150 million
drams or about 70 times less than their replacement value); accounts receivable constitute 97% of
total assets; and the company has a negative net worth on account of the low book value of fixed
assets and the negative retained earnings after writing off expected bad-debts.
Projections: The company's financial prospects are closely linked to the collection performance of its
main customers, the electricity distribution companies. Based on tariff margins broadly agreed with the
Energy Commission (in October 1997), the existing tariff policy of covering operations, maintenance and
debt service costs, but not bad debts, and improvements in end-user tariff collections from around 70% in
1997 to at least 82% in 1998, 90% in 1999 and 95% in 2000, the company's cash-flow would turn
positive by 2001. During this transition period, the Government's strategy is to help Arnenergo secure
the working capital and provide it as a supplier credit to the distribution companies, provided they can
demonstrate improvements in their collections. Agreements under the financial rehabilitation plan will be
incorporated in the financial projections as they are concluded. The debt-service impact of these
agreements is to be incorporated into the tariffs.
Cash-Flow and the need for working capital. Armenergo's operating income remains positive through
the projection period. The cash flow would be negative until 2000 if working capital were not provided
during the transition to full tariff collections. In the financial model Armenergo receives the working
capital support which it then provides to the distribution companies in the forrn of medium or long-term
credit. Servicing of pre-April 1, 1997 debt is to be included in the tariff or funded from other sources than
operating revenue. In addition to the $15 million of working capital to be financed under Phase II of the
proposed APL, the company is projected to require about $17 million in the 1997-2001 period to finance
the transition to full tariff collections. As stated in the Government's Financial Rehabilitation Plan, this
financing is expected to be raised from: (i) fuel supplier credits or "debt-for-equity" swaps connected with
the joint venture with Russia's Gazprom, and (ii) tax credits or forgiveness related to losses incurred from
the write-off of bad debts, particularly bad-debts arising from state policies.
It should be noted that the projected collection targets (E.2 (d)), assume that the reliability of power
supply will at least be maintained, partly through the financing of working capital. As was experienced
during 1994-95, erratic power supply could result in a drop of 10-15% in collections, or a revenue loss of
7-10 billion drams ($14-21 rnillion) in 1998 alone, without any corresponding reduction in cost.
Net Worth. For reasons discussed above, the company has a negative net worth which is expected to be
largely rectified through revaluation of fixed assets during 1999/00.
8      The July 1998 separation of Armenergo's transmission and dispatch fumctions has not been assessed.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitz Transmission and Distribution Project                                19
YEREVAN DISTRIBUTION COMPANY
Financial highlights of 1996, after restatement to an accruals basis, are:
*     Revenues in 1996 (on an accruals basis) were 19.2 billion drams and operating losses were 0.3
billion drams. Excluding purchased electricity, O&M costs were 1.7 billion drams; 0.7 billion
drams for labor, 1.0 billion drams for maintenance, and only 0.07 billion drams for depreciation.
Preliminary estimates suggest that at least 6 billion drams is needed for annual maintenance.
*      Tariff policy during 1996, while covering operations and maintenance costs, did not compensate
YDC (or other distribution companies) for electricity supplied at subsidized rates to privileged
and vulnerable customers. This subsidy was removed on July 1, 1997.
*     Collection performance increased dramatically during 1996, from 35% in the beginning of the
year to 70% at the end, largely due to better organization of collections and improved supply.
*     Net fixed assets, nornally the largest component of assets, comprise only 12% of total assets
while accounts receivable, most of them of doubtful value, comprise 80% of total assets.
Projections: Based on tariff margins broadly agreed with the Energy Commission, YDC is projected to
regain its financial viability (positive net income) by the year 2001. Bad-debt write-offs are the single
largest contributor to the negative net income.
Cash-Flow and the need for working capital. The cash-flow deficits are expected to be financed by
Armenergo (supplier credit as discussed above), provided agreed payment targets are met, and through
additional tariffs as part of the sector financial rehabilitation plan. Successful privatization of the
company in 1999/00 will also contribute to its early capitalization and its cash flow.
Net Worth. As with Armenergo, the company has a negative net worth which is expected to be largely
rectified through revaluation of fixed assets during 1999/00.
To demonstrate improvement in their financial performance, agreement was reached with the Borrower
(for Armenergo and HVENC) and the Yerevan Distribution Company to:
(i)   submit to the Bank audit reports and audited financial statements, audited by an internationally
reputed firm, for accounts of each fiscal year beginning with 1998, not later than six months after
the close of such year;
(ii)   ensure that new accounts receivable and payable (from January 1, 1999) not exceed 90 days of
sales and expenses respectively by January 1, 2000 and thereafter;
(iii)   collect at least 82% of the amount billed in 1999, 90% of the amount billed in 2000 and 95% of
the amount billed in 2001;
(iv)   reach and maintain a current ratio (current assets/current liabilities) of at least 1.3 by January 1,
2000; and
(v)    reach and maintain a debt-service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 by January 1, 2000.
E.3 Technical Assessment:
The technical assessment of the transmnission and distribution system, and of the project feasibility
studies, confirm the rapid deterioration in the condition of the networks following the collapse of the FSU
and the resulting economic crisis and civil strife. The stabilization of electricity supply achieved over the
last two years now permits the distribution networks to be operated in a more orderly manner (transformer
and cable failures due to overloading have been reduced substantially) thereby justifying the proposed
project which constitutes the first significant investments in the physical rehabilitation of the networks.
The equipment proposed will be specified to be compatible with existing infrastructure and also be
versatile enough to take advantage of an upgrade of the system over the next 10-15 years.



Project Appraisal Document
Arnenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                                20
Facilities to be rehabilitated were selected based on their condition (urgency of repairs) and economic
importance (dernand being served by the facilities), and with the assumption that the bulk of rehabilitation
and comrnercialization investments in distribution would be made by the private sector following
privatization in 2-3 years. Three of the four transmission sub-stations, Shaumian-2, Zovuni and Marash,
serve Yerevan while Ekhegnedzor is an important connection with the south. System meters are included
i-nstead of consumer meters to allow better energy management and identify points where large losses are
occurring. Extensive improvements and replacement of consumer meters will be more expensive; a pilot
program is included under the follow-on OECF-financed project but longer-term solutions are best left to
future private owners of the distribution companies. Similarly, investments in billing and payment
systems have been kept to a minimum and are expected to be recovered within a few years.
E.4  Institutional Assessment:
(a)   Executing agencies/Beneficiaries: The Ministry of Energy will be responsible for execution of the
project. This is necessary because the structures for management authority and responsibility within the
beneficiary enterprises are still being finalized and are expected to be completed only by mid-1999. The
Ministry of Energy, created in 1992, is the primary Govemment agency responsible for formulating the
country's energy policy, and development and privatization strategy, and it will represent the state's
ownership interests during the transition to full private ownership and in enterprises in which the state
intends to retain ownership.
The Energy Commission, an independent state body established by the Energy Law adopted in June
1997, is responsible for setting regulated prices and tariffs for gas, electricity and heat, licensing all
operators, approving contracts between sector enterprises, and defining and ensuring compliance with
market rules. The Commission has already issued some key decisions (recent tariff increases for
electricity, gas and heat) and is preparing model licenses and LAS-based accounting and reporting rules
for licensees (to be completed by March 1, 1999). Assistance for this is being provided under the First
and Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credits (SATAC-I, Cr. No. 28250 and SATAC
11, Cr. No 29810) and from USAID. Licenses for Armenergo and Yerevan Distribution Company are to
be prepared by April 1, 1999 and for other enterprises by July 1, 1999.
Enterprises described below will be beneficiaries of credit proceeds. It should be noted that the power
sector is grossly over-staffed. With about 10,000 personnel employed in core supply functions serving
about 1.1 million customers (or an average demand of less than 1,500 MW), Annenia has one of the
highest number of employee:customer and employee:MW ratios in the world. While staff reduction has
started (June 1997), the bulk of reduction is expected as companies are cosnmercialized, salary incentives
are liberalized, and privatization started. Armenergo and the Yerevan Distribution Company have been
registered in accordance with the Law of Joint Stock Corporations (April 1996) arld their registration
documents, including opening financial statements, have been provided to the Bank.
Armenergo State Enterprise, the national transmission and dispatch company, is being reorganized and
non-core activities are being spun-off. The company was recently (July 1998) further separated into
Armenergo Electric Network State Closed Joint Stock Corporation (SCJSC), which now retains only
the dispatch, single-buyer, and financial settlements fumctions for the sector, and a High Voltage Electric
Network SCJSC. Management capacity of the transmnission, dispatch and financial settlements is being
strengthened and tlhe company is to start a training program for its staff in international accounting
standards and modem utility management.
As conditions for commitng financing for Pease H of the APL, the Government (and its Energy
Commission) would have:



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Proiect                              21
(i)   Issued market rules, agreed with IDA, for operation of the power market, and have contracted
reputable consultants, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, to help the Energy
Commission to strengthen and enforce these market rules; and
(ii)    Agreed with IDA on an Action Plan to reorganize state-owned power enterprises to improve their
commercial operation and prepare them for private participation. The plan would include
benchmarks for downsizing and define service requirements and management performance
indicators (compared with international standards), and specify which services are to be retained
within each enterprise and which are to be sub-contracted; and
(iii)   have established a suitably staffedfinancial settlements unit within Armenergo (dispatch).
Eleven regional distribution state enterprises were formed in May-June 1997 by consolidating over 60
distribution enterprises created during 1996, following the unbundling of Armenergo. Based on analysis
done during preparation, which suggested that 2 to 4 distribution companies would be optimal from least-
cost considerations, the Govermnent has further consolidated distribution into four: Yerevan Distribution
SCJSC, Southern Electric Network SCJSC, Central (Kentron) Electric Network SCJSC, and Northern
Electric Network SCJSC. International privatization advisors were contracted in December 1998 to begin
preparing documentation for the privatization of the Yerevan Distribution Company and to represent
Armenia's interests in the privatization of the power sector. During negotiations, agreement was reached
for the Borrower to issue, by September 30, 1999, the offering memorandum for a majority of shares of
YDC to private investors.
4 (b) Project management: Project management arrangements are discussed in Sec. C.3. The project will
be managed by the Ministry of Energy's PIU which was created in 1996 to manage the preparation and
implementation of the proposed project. In addition to key ministry staff, the PIU will include
transmission and distribution experts, and a training program is being developed to strengthen
procurement and project management skills in the PIU and within the project beneficiaries. Armenergo
already has a reasonable level of experience in international procurement gained under the on-going
Power Maintenance Project. The Borrower has been encouraged to incorporate these slilled staff into the
project implementation structure of the proposed project.
E.5 Social Assessment:
The restoration of continuous and high quality supply of electricity since 1996 has significantly improved
consumer welfare. Alternate, expensive fuels such as kerosene, liquefied petroleum gas, have been
substituted with cheaper electricity, and consumers are able to better plan their time compared with the
period of electricity rationing. Interestingly, the Ministry of Energy estimates that the restoration of 24
hour supply has actually reduced total household consumption from 2,300 GWh in 1995 (rationed to 4-6
hours a day) to about 2,200 GWh in 1996 and 1997, while also increasing payment for a better service
(estimated to have increased from 3.3 billion drams in 1995 to 22.0 billion drams in 1997).
The impact on the population resulting from the rapid increase in household electricity tariffs, from less
than 0.4 US cents/kWh in 1994 to an average level of about 3.9 US cents per kWh in September 1997
(Sec. E.2 (d)), and discontinuation of tariff discounts to privileged and vulnerable groups (about 20% of
households) in July 1997, was been partly offset by direct income support to poor families and life-line
tariffs for all (about 750,000) households. In late 1997, a minimum energy bill in winter was about
US$10/month which is quite high, given that about 30% of urban households were classified as poor in
1995 and spend less than US$50/month on basic needs.
The proposed elimination of life-line tariffs from January 1, 1999 is to be compensated by an increase in
family benefits which will target the 230,000 poorest households using the Paros proxy means testing
system. The system is expected to be modified in the following manner:



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia ElectricitV Transmission and Distribution Project                                 22
*     The amount of financing going to the family benefit will be raised by 5 billion Drams in the 1999
budget from 17,3 billion to 22,3 billion Drams. The benefit will be raised from 6,400 Drams to
8000 Drams per household per month, covering therefore more than what they will actually have
to pay as a supplement to reflect the increased electricity tariff (estimated on average at 1450
Dranis per household);
*     For households consuming less than 100 kWh/month (average for the year), the deadline for
payments of unpaid electricity bills will be set to February 15, 1999 to ensure that poor household
receive benefit payments, or can activate the recourse system, before they have to pay their
increased electricity bills:
*     A recourse system will be set-up for people that would not score high enough under Paros to get
the benefit butt are still very poor due to errors of exclusion related to the limitation of the proxy
formula. About 10% of the 230,000 households will be added to the list through the recourse
system. 'Ihe exact mechanisms for the recourse system and the involvement of municipal
authorities and the electricity company in assessing the poverty level of households using the
recourse system are being defined.
E.6  Environmental Assessment
Environmental Category: B
The main project-related environmental issues identified during project preparation were: (i) noise
pollution dturing operation of air circuit breakers; (ii) oil leaks from transformers; and (iii) inadequate fire
prevention controls, particularly at transformers and large-volume oil circuit breakers. Preliminary
investigations by two independent intemational consultants have shown inconsistent results as to the
presence of' poly-chlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in soil samples taken from below some existing
transformers suggesting there may be some isolated instances where PCBs were used improperly in the
past. In order to ensure that the proposed project does not have an adverse environental impact,
additional analysis will be conducted before disposing of any oil in the transformers and circuit breakers
being rehabilitated under the proposed project to determine the appropriate treatment (ship wastes to a
legitimate processor oil and remove PCBs from the affected electrical equipment). Goods to be procured
under the project will he specified not to contain PCBs. The modern circuit breakers to be procured under
the project will substantially reduce noise pollution. The follow-on OECF-financed project includes the
general overhaul of' transmission facilities to reduce oil leaks and install fire-protection equipment in the
sub-stations to be rehabilitated under the proposed project and the follow-on project. A National
Environmental Action Plan for Armenia is also being finalized, supported by an IDF grant. As a
condition for committing financing for Phase HI of the APL, and in support of its power privatization
strategy, the Government would have completed an environmental assessment of the electricity
distribution facilities and thermal power plants, according to terms of reference agreed with IDA.
E.7 Participatory Approach:
Identification/Preparation    Implementation       Operation
Beneficiaries/coramunity groups                           CON (Metering/Billing)
Intermediaiy NGOs
Academic institutions COL (Energy Institute)    IS/CON
l:.ocal government
O(ther dotnors IS/CON/COL                IS/CON/COL



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                       23
F:   Sustainability and Risks
1.    Sustainability: After a period of severe cnrsis from 1991 to 1994, the elec ri,&" sup3ly situation in
Armenia has stabilized and is increasingly being regulated by comnercial prinniples raLfher than by
political or social considerations. Damage to the networks caused by the system over.oads and improper
load management has reduced substantially and will be further mitigated throug:  thf project.  The
sustainability of project benefits will be ensured through: (i) financial rehabilitation pan for the power
sector, including a transition to full cost-recovery tariffs and restructuring and writo- of kJbad debts; and
(ii) privatization of Yerevan Distribution Company and other distribution enterprists.
2.    Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk               Risk Minin: a inn
Rating
Project out-uts to development
objectives
Enterprise operating income does not       M       (i) SAC-III comi iitinens oL coinerl trcialization,
improve and financial and project                  payment discipline & regulatory re-fonrf9s;
benefits cannot be sustained.                      (ii) Better acconitability f oaugh system metering;
(iii) Improved transparency and accountalbility
expected to raise public acLeptenre of higher
tariffs and payment disciplhie;
(iv) Pnrvatization of distribution.
Working capital (WC) financing from        H       Equity (in the Armeniafi gas inetwor-) for gas is
the AnnRusgaz joint venture, in support            part of the joint-venture agree-ent  Ritl Russian
of the financial rehabilitation of the             Gazprom. Actual deliveries O1L gas to the power
power sector, does not materialize.                sector (as a credit for WC) vwil be -feieAeved before
conmitting to Phase HI cf thie AL,
Investment support (USAID, OECF,           M       USAID-funding of $1 5  Iillion fw metering was
KfW) does not materialize or is delayed,           approved in mid-1998. Scope of c&e:iponent is to
and loss reduction targets are not                 be finalized by Mafchi 1 999 and imonpleinentation
reached (leading to the need for higher            completed by early 230C. 1 ,W Lioanicing has also
tariffs to cover costs).                           been approved and is pendinr' effectiveness.
OECF credit agreen ent is scnheduded to be signed
on February 18, 1999 wih effectii,2te:ess contingent
on the effectiveness or ihe ,       Upcit.  dpates to
the Government's Finaiiciai :Reiabi itation Plan
(FRP) will take into account iyipl-isientation of
these investments. Satisfactory iinp0Imentation of
the metering compontnt andt    o Ihe I-R13 are
triggers for Phase I1 of thle APL
Project components to oututs
Implementation delays because of:           S      Implernentation capacity has been developed
(i) weak administrative capacity within           through on-going IDA and EBRL  flnanced
Ministry of Energy and other                       projects. Implementation wiil be simnplified by
Government bodies to review and                    minimizing number of contracts, retaining
approve procurement actions; (ii)                  consultants, and training local staff. The Bank is
multiple audits of IFI-financed projects           also working with state authorities to streamline
over the last year causing a paralysis in          audit arrangemeents. Finally, thne balance in a
decision-making; and (iii) non-                    special Project Account w4il be maintained above 3
availability of local financing.                   months of local cost re-quirements.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                                   24
Equipment selected may not be optimal    N      Equipment will be specified and designed by
from a private operator's viewpoint             international consultants experienced in
international utility management.
Overall project risk rating
Political will to enforce payment        M      Collection targets under SAC-III. Except for a few
discipline.                                     critical consumers, Govemment policy has allowed
disconnection for non-payment of bills.
Obstacles from present managers and       S     Government's privatization strategy (adopted on
employees to allow private ownership of         December 5, 1997) is directed at attracting
sector enterprises by foreign strategic         strategic investors while providing incentives,
investors                                       including partial ownership, to local sector staff.
3.   Possible Controversial Aspects: The method (strategic investor) and schedule for privatization of
the distribution enterprises may face resistance at the time of execution.
G:   Main Loan Conditions
1.   Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)    Borrower to have contracted a qualified Procurement Consulting firrn under terms of reference
agreed with the Bank (C.4);
(ii)   Borrower to have opened a Project Account in a commercial bank and deposited at least 3 months
of local costs (equivalent to US$250,000) to be financed by the project beneficiaries (C.4);
(iii)  Borrower and each beneficiary to have signed subsidiary loan agreements (C.4);
(iv)  Borrower's PIU to have established a project management information system consistent with the
Bank's disbursement procedures and project financial policies (C.4).
2.    Agreements reached with the Borrower and Credit Beneficiaries:
Accounts/Audits
(i)    Borrower's PIU to submit to the Bank the audit reports and audlited financial statements for the
Special Account, project accounts and Statements of Expenditure for each fiscal year not later than
six months after the close of such year (C.4);
Financial Performance
(ii)   Borrower's Energy Commission to ensure that average electricity tariffs for Armenergo, HVENC
and YDC in 1999, 2000 and 2001 are sufficient to at least cover reasonable operating and
maintenance costs, debt-service requirements, and depreciation based on revalued useful assets
(E.2(d));
Borrower (on behalf of Armenergo and the High Voltage Electric Network Company) and the Yerevan
Distribution Company, to:
(iii)  submit to IDA the auditors' report and audited financial statements for these entities, audited by an
internationally reputed firm, for each fiscal year during the project period beginning with 1998, not
later than six months after the close of such year (E.2(e));
(iv)   ensure that new accounts receivable and payable (from January 1, 1999) not exceed 90 days of
sales and expenses respectively by January 1, 2000 and thereafter (E.2(e));
(v)   collect at least 82% of the amount billed in 1999, 90% in 2000 and 95% in 2001 (E.2(e));
(vi)  reach and maintain a current ratio (current assets/current liabilities) of at least 1.3 by January 1,
2000 (E.2 (e));



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                            25
(vii) reach and maintain a debt-service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 by January 1, 2000 (E.2(e));
Private Participation
(viii) by September 30, 1999, Borrower to have issued the offering memorandum for a majority of
shares of Yerevan Distribution Company to private investors (E.4);
Counterpart Funding
(ix)  Borrower to ensure that the balance in the Project Account is always at least at the level to finance
the following 3 months of local costs financed by the project beneficiaries (C.4);
Project Management
(x)   Borrower to maintain, until project completion, an adequately staffed project implementation unit
with staff and consultants having qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (C.4);
(xi)  Borrower has agreed on key Project Monitoring Indicators;
(xii) Borrower to submit to the Bank, by August 31, 2000, a report integrating results of project
monitoring and evaluation, the progress achieved in project implementation and proposed
measures to achieve project objectives, and review this report with the Bank by September 30,
2000 (C.4).
H: Readiness for Implementation
Consulting services to complete the project's engineering design, prepare procurement documents, and
assist the PIU with procurement and supervision of implementation are to be contracted by April 30, 1999
(letters of invitation to short-listed consulting firrms were issued on February 5, 1999) and the first set of
bidding documents are expected to be issued by August 31, 1999. The USAID-funded metering program
is expected to be implemented between June and December 1999 and the installation of other equipment
is estimated to begin in early-2000.
The Project Implementation Plan has been agreed with the Borrower's PIU.  Furthermore, the
Government has taken an advance from the proposed credit for a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to
recruit procurement consultants, begin strengthening the accounting and management capacity at the
enterprise level, and to strengthen implementation capacity.
I:   Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Salman Zaheer
Sector eader: David Craig
Dir       dy O'Connor



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                         26
Annex 1: Project Design Summary for an Adaptable Lending Program
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project
Monitoring
&
Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance Indicators            Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
A. Sector-related CAS Goal  Sector Indicators:                                 (from Goal to Bank Mission)
(a) Consolidate the recovery   (a) Share of private sector in GDP as  IMF and  (a) Trade embargo by Turkey
of economic growth through   reflected by share of electricity   Country       and Azerbaijan is lifted within a
rapid development of the   consumed by commercial and private    econorriic    reasonable period.
private sector by alleviating    entities (conpared with present level of   reports  (b) Slow GDP growth before
the infrastructure bottlenecks   about 25%).                                  lifting of blockade does not
aggravate social discontent,
threaten political stability and
.__________________________                                 .___________   slow   pace  of reforms
B. Program Purpose:         End-of-Program (end-2003)            Program       (from Program Purpose to
Indicators                           Reports:      CAS Goal)
(a) Place the power sector on   (a) Successful implementation of the  SAC-3    Conditions continue to imnprove
an efficient, commercial   Govemment's Energy Sector Financial   supervision   for private investment in
footing                    Rehabilitation Plan (Annex 11);       reports       Armenia in general and the
(b) Electricity tariffs cover costs of             energy sector in particular.
efficient supply and depreciation based    Project  Specific assumptions:
on revalued useful assets;            supervision
(c) Sector enterprises submit tariff  reports     (a) De-politicization of energy
requests to the Energy Commission in              tariffs, sector operations, and
accordance with the Energy Law;       Quarterly    privatization
(d) Demonstrated improvement in      reports by    (b) Banks and other creditors
competence and independence of Energy  PIU, MoFE   willing to restructure power
Conmission in licensing, tariff-setting,    and MoE  enterprise debts and Energy
and enforcement of power market rules;             Conmmission and tax authorities
(e) Majority shares in distribution and            willing to permit adequate
thermal power companies sold to                    provisioning for bad debts;
strategic investors. Private capital               (c) Expansion of regional trade
replacing public and multilateral funds            in electricity and in domestic
for bulk of sector investment;                     industrial demand (to enhance
(f) Targeted programs in place to cover            efficiency of power system and
social impact of restructuring on sector           moderate the need for tariff
employees and vulnerable consumers;               increases).
(g) Program in place to address
environmental liabilites.
(b) Ensure the continued    Reduction of technical losses and forced   PIU/MoE  (a) OECF and KfW-financed
reliable and high quality   outages in transmission and distribution   Bank    projects, to further rehabilitate
supply of electricity      system to design level, taking into   supervision   transmission, dispatch and
account prevailing condition of assets  missions   distribution, implemented in
___`_d_of__`_ogram_Indicators_                      program period.
C. Program Phasing:         End-of-Program Indicators            Program       (from Program Purpose to
Objectives/Purpose                                               Reports:      CAS Goal)
Phase I (until end-2000):
Proposed Project (see below)  (a) YDC successfully privatized;    PIU/IDA      No major political resistance to
(b) Armenergo commercialized         supervision   commercialization and
(satisfactory compliance with market               privatization
rules and with contractual obligations
with generators and distributors).                _



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                         27
C. Program Phasing:         End-of-Program Indicators            Program      (from Program Purpose to
Objectives/Purpose                                               Reports:      CAS Goal)
Phase II (until end-2002):    See: A. Program Purpose above.     IDA SAC-3   Triggers for Phase I
(a) Privatize remaining state-  Also:                            supervision   financing (est. $32 million):
owned distribution and      (a) Technical and unmetered losses in    reports   (a) Satisfactory implementation
thermal enterprises;       transmission and distribution reduced               of the Financial Rehab. Plan;
(b) Ensure reliable supply  from 33% to 18% of net supply (net   PIU, MoFE,  (b) Satisfactory implementation
(generation and import) of    generation and imports);           MoE           of USAID-funded system
electricity and further    (b) Collections (% of billings) increased           metering program;
improvement in efficiency,    from 85% in end-1998 to at least 95%,            (c) Issuance of privatization
reliability and management of and % of supply billed increased to 82%.         documents for YDC;
transmission, dispatch and                                                     (d) Energy Commission to have
system control services;                                                      issued power market rules and
(c) Rehabilitate distribution                                                  have contracted reputable
systems which are unable to                                                    consultants to strengthen
attract private capital on                                                     enforce these rules;
reasonable terms;                                                              (e) Adoption of an Action Plan
(d) Address the social and                                                     to reorganize state-owned
environmental costs of                                                         power enterprises to improve
conmmercialization and                                                         their commercial operation and
privatization                                                                  prepare them for private
participation;
(f) Establishment of a financial
settlements unit in Armenergo;
(g) Preparation of an
environ-mental assessment of
the electricity distribution
facilities and thermal power
plants to support of the power
privatization strategy; and
(h) Armenia's IBRD
creditworthiness maintained.
D. Project Development            Outcome/Impact Indicators         Project    Critical Assumptions (from
Objective (PDO):                                                    Reports    PDO to Program Purpose)
Phase I (proposed project):    (a) Reconciliation of meter readings  PIU and    (a) Government able to
(a) Improve measurement and   between generation, transmission and  IDA         overcome any resistance to
accountability of electricity  each of the four distribution companies;  supervision   metering and
and revenue flows in        (b) Inclusion of load-flow characteristics  reports  conmmercialization program
Armenergo (transmission and   in tariff design (time-of-day pricing) and  EC for  (a) Installation of USAID-
dispatch) and Yerevan       inclusion of reasonable technical losses   tariffs  funded system meters (to
Distribution Company        in tariffs. Reduction of technical losses          improve accountability and
from                                               billing) is largely completed by
September 1999;
(b) Reduce technical losses in  (a) Technical losses will be quantified    PIU and  (a) Enterprise management
the electricity transmission  by the metering program and impact of   IDA       capacity, accountability and
and distribution system and  project will be assessed against the  supervision   authority is strengthened;
improve its availability    target of reducing technical and      reports       (b) Parts of the network not
unmetered losses to 18% by the end of              covered by the project are also
the program (see above)                            rehabilitated.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                         28
D. Project Development           Outcome/Impact Indicators          Project    Critical Assumptions (from
Objective (PDO) (Contd.):                                           Reports    PDO to Program Purpose)
(c) Improve commercial      (a) Successful implementation of the  MoFE,        (a) Funds from Armgas
performance and financial   Financial Rehabilitation Plan (see    MoE, PIU    privatization used to restructure
condition of project        Indicators under B. Program Purpose);   progress   power sector debt to banks and
beneficiaries.              (b) Adoption of LAS-based accounting    reports    fuel suppliers;
and reporting;                                     (b) EC and political powers
(c) Tariffs set to cover reasonable                permit setting of cost-recovery
operating and maintenance costs,                  tariffs, including reasonable
investment programs, and capital costs;            retums to private investors;
(d) External audits performed by                  (c) Adequate incentives and
intemational audit firms and internal              sanctions in place to ensure
financial control & auditing systems               management conmmitment;
strengthened;                                      (d) Unwillingness to contract
(e) Majority shares in Yerevan                     internationally reputable
Distribution Comnpany sold to a strategic          auditor;
investor.                                         (e) Governnent willing to
reduce employment in the
sector, spin-off service
enterprises, and develop ability
of enterprises to be successful
in a commercialized sector
E. Output from each                  Output Indicators:             Project    Critical Assumptions (from
Component:                                                          Reports    Outputs to PDO)
(a) Improved measurement of  Improved allocation of present total  PIU          Govermment able to overcome
power flows and             losses (estimated at about 33% of net               any resistance to metering and
accountability for revenue  supply) to technical and unmetered                  comrnercialization program
flows, in Armenergo and YDC  losses in each transmission and
distribution enterprise (by 12/99);
(b) Reduced technical losses    Technical losses, estimated at 16.5% of   P-U   Metering program to verify
in transmission and         net supply, to be reduced by 0.5% per              technical loss estimates and
distribution                year                                               tariffs to cover reasonable
technical losses.
(c) Imnproved reliability of  Baseline of forced outages and      PIU           Reliability of fuel supply and
electricity supply to YDC and   maintenance downtime to be established          power generation is maintained
Armenergo customers         by 3/99
(d) Improved financial      (a) First phase of IAS implemented    PIU and       Authorities will need to work
accounting and auditing of  (1/99);                               consultants   closely with consultants to
Armeneigo and Yerevan       (b) Independent annual audits of                    ensure satisfactory
Distribution Comnpany, and  Armenergo and YDC (showing            Auditor       implementation of
improved management of      improvements in quality of accounting    report     recommendations
Armenergo.                  and financial reporting);
(c) Management reorganization and staff  Consultant
training/retrenchment program adopted   and MoE
(6/00).



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                      29
F. Project Components                        Project Inputs:    Project        Critical Assumptions (from
reports:      Project Components to
Outputs)
1. System Metering: Covering metering between  US$7.25 million    PIU/USAID    Installation of system meters
generation, transmission and distribution and  (USAID to fund    quarterly     largely completed by October
computers, software and other data recording    foreign costs)    reports       1999
equipment to support a modem billing, accounting
and payment system
2. Transmission Rehabilitation: (i) Circuit  US$9.1 million     PIU and HV      Investments financed by
breakers at the Ekhegnadzor; Zovuni and Marash;  (IDA-financed)  Transmission   Japan's OECF and
(ii) current transformers at Zovuni and Marash;                 Company         Germany's KfW largely
and (iii) comnplete reconstruction and                                         completed by 2001
modernization of low voltage (10 kV) switchgear
at Shaumian-2.
3. Dispatch Control and System mnanagement:   US$1.0 million     PIU and        OECF-fmanced investments
Computer, communications and management                         Armenergo       in System Communication
information systems                                             (Dispatch)     and Data Acquisition
Company       (SCADA) system completed
by 2002
4. Rehabilitation of the Yerevan Distribution  US$13.4 million  PIU and YDC   Management incentives in
System. This component will cover critical   (IDA and USAID                    place to improve commercial
requirements to rehabilitate the low-voltage (<35    financed)                  performance and attract
kV) sub-stations and cables. USAID will fund                                   strategic investor
equipment for accounting and billing.
5. Technical Services:                       US$2.0 million
(i) Procurement advisors, implementation     (i) US$1.0 million                 Government, enterprises and
supervision specialists (for whole program)                                    consultant's work together to
(ii) Consultants for PIU;                    (ii) US$0.2 million                expedite procurement and
(iii) Financial audit of Armenergo & YDC;    (iii) US$0.2 million              implementation of project
(iv) Management strengthening of Armenergo   (iv) US$0.2 million
(v) Operating expenses of the PIU (4-years)  (iv) US$0.4 million
MoFE: Ministry of Finance and Economy; MoE: Ministry of Energy; EC: Energy Commission; PIUl: Project
Implementation Unit; YDC: Yerevan Distribution Company



Project Appraisal Document
Armepia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                               30
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1: System Metering (US$7.3 million). The main features of this component are the
installation of energy, current, load and volt meters at the busbars between the generation companies and
the High Voltage Electric Network Company (HVENC), at key transmission sub-stations within the
HVENC, between HVENC and the distribution corrmpanies (to support new commercial arrangements),
and at key slb-stations within the distribution companies (to permit internal control). Meters will be
specified to be able to store data and to be compatible for connection to the System Control and Data
Acquisition (SCADA) system to be installed under the OECF-financed project. It is envisaged that 144
tfransfer points between generation and transmission, 192 sub-stations within Armenergo, and key
locations within Yerevan Distribution Company will be metered under this component. This component
is to be financed by a grant from the US Government.
Project Component 2: Transmission System Rehabilitation (US$9.1 million). This component will
prnmarily fcus on the rehabilitation of the following transmission sub-stations: Ekhegnadzor (220/110/35
kV), Zovuni (220/110l/1 kV), Marash (220/110/lO kV), and Shaumian-2 (220/110/lOkV). Three of the
four tansmission sub-stations, Shaumian-2, Zovuni and Marash, serve Yerevan while Ekhegnedzor is an
important connection with the south. It will also include the procurement of tools and testing equipment.
The rehabilit.ation will involve:
(i)    replacement of existing 220kV air circuit breakers (CBs) by SF6 circuit breakers at the sub-
stations at Ekhegnadzor, Zovuni and Marash;
(ii)   replacement of existing 220kV current transformers at the sub-stations at Zovuni and Marash;
(iii)  replacing existing 11  OkV big volume oil CBs by SF6 CBs at Zovuni and Marash;
(iv)   Replacement of existing 1 lOkV current transformers at Zovuni and Marash;
(v)    Reconstruction and modemization of low voltage switchgear on Shaumian-2 220/1 10/10kV
substation with installation of cells with SF6 or vacuum circuit breakers;
(vi)  improvement of Civil and Steel works at substations in which new equipment is to be installed.
Project Component 3: Rehabilitation of the Yerevan Distribution System (US$13.4 million). This
corrmponent will rehabilitate low-voltage (<35 kV) sub-stations and underground and overhead cables in
Yerevan. The remaining 3 distribution companies, and parts of Yerevan not covered by the IDA credit,
are to be rehabilitated -under the OECF-financed project and under Phase II of the program (APL) if
necessary. Equipment (computers, software, etc.) and training to improve end-user metering, billing and
collections is being funded under an on-going USAID program. The IDA credit would mainly finance
circuit breakers, transformers, and medium and low voltage overhead cables.
Project Component 4: Upgrade of Armenergo, the National Dispatch Company (US$1.0 million).
This component will provide computers and software for power system planning, load management, and
stengthening of the management capacity to manage financial flows in the system. Additional
strengthening of Armenergo is to be covered by the OECF-financed project.
Project Component 5: Consultant Services and PIU Costs - US$2.0 million
(i)    Procurement and implementation supervision;
(ii)    Establishment and operation of PIU, including operating costs;
(iii)   Extemal audit of Armenergo and YDC (FY 1998 and 1999 financial statements) by an
internationally reputed accounting firm;
(iii)   Strengthening of Armenergo's management capacity, particularly its financial and technical
rnanagement capacity, ability to dispatch generation plants based on economic criteria, and to
establish and operate a financial settlements unit.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                   31
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
A. Contingencies included in component costs
<     -  Total       ->         Bank Financed
<------ (million US$) ---->   % of    million  % of Bank
Project Component                      LC     FC   Total Total Cost   US$   Financing
A. System Metering                    0.94   6.30   7.25    22.1%       0.00     0.0%
1. Transmission System Metering       0.65   4.88   5.53     16.9%      0.00      0.0%
2. Distribution system monitoring meters    0.30   1.42   1.72  5.2%    0.00      0.0%
B. Transnission Rehab & Spares        0.94   8.17   9.11    27.8%       8.17    38.9%
C. Distribution System Rehabilitation  1.71  11.73  13A4    41.0%       9.83    46.8%
1. Yerevan rehabilitation             1.71   9.83  11.54    35.2%       9.83    46.8%
2. Yerevan - Accounting/Billing Equip.  0.00   1.90   1.90    5.8%       0.00     0.0%
D. Dispatch Strengthening             0.00   1.01   1.01      3.0%       1.01    4.8%
E. Technical Services                 0.00   1.60   1.60      4.9%       1.60    7.6%
F. Operating Costs of PIU             0.00   0.40   0.40      1.2%      0.40     1.9%
Total Project Cost                    3.60  29.20  32.80   100.0%      21.00   100.0%
B. Contingencies shown separately
Bank Financed
<    (million US$) ------>   % of    million  % of Bank
Project Component                      LC    FC    Total Total Cost   US$   Financing
A. System Metering                    0.73  5.81    6.54    19.9%       0.00      0.0%
1. Transmission System Metering       0.50  4.50    5.00    15.2%       0.00      0.0%
2. Distribution system monitoring meters  0.23  1.31    1.54  4.7%      0.00      0.0%
B. Transmission Rehab & Spares        0.69  7.45    8.14    24.8%       7.45    35.5%
C. Distribution System Rehabilitation  1.21  10.02   11.23    34.2%     8.27    39.4%
1. Yerevan rehabilitation             1.21  8.27    9.48    28.9%       8.27     39.4%
2. Yerevan - Accounting/Billing Equip.  0.00  1.75    1.75    5.3%      0.00      0.0%
D. Dispatch Strengthening             0.00  0.98    0.98      3.0%      0.98      4.7%
E. Technical Services                 0.00  1.60    1.60      4.9%       1.60     7.6%
F. Operating Costs of PIU             0.00  0.40    0.40      1.2%      0.40      1.9%
Project Base Cost                     2.63 26.26   28.89    85.1%      18.70    89.1%
Physical Contingencies                0.25  1.99    2.24      6.8%       1.61     7.7%
Price Contingencies                   0.72  0.95    1.67      5.1%      0.69      3.3%
Total Project Cost                    3.60 29.20   32.80   100.0%      21.00   100.0%
Commitment Fee                        0.00  0.02    0.02      0.1%      0.00      0.0%
Interest during construction          0.00  0.15    0.15      0.5%      0.00      0.0%
Total Financing Required              3.60 29.37   32.97   100.5%      21.00   100.0%



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                   32
Detailed Costs (in m. US$ Equiv.)     <----   1999 --->   <__    2000  ---->  <-    2001  -->   <--   Total -->
Component                                 LC     FC   Total    LC       FC   Total    LC      FC   Total    LC       FC    Total
A. System Metering
1. Transmission: Base                    0.13   1.13   1.25   0.25    2.25   2.50   0.13    1.13   1.25    0.50   4.50    5.00
Sub-component Cost wlcontingencies     0.14   1.19   1.33   0.32    2.44   2.76   0.18   1.25    1.43    0.65   4.88    5.53
2. Yerevan Distribution: Base            0.06   0.33   0.39   0.12    0.66   0.77   0.06   0.33   0.39    0.23    1.31    1.54
Sub-component Cost w/contingencies     0.06   0.35   0.41   0.15    0.71   0.86   0.08   0.36   0.45   0.30    1.42    1.72
Total Metering Component         0.20   1.54   1.75   0.47    3.15   3.62   0.27   1.61    1.88   0.94    6.30    7.25
Of which IDA:         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
B. Transmission Rehabilitation (Ekhegnadzor, Zovuni, Marash, Shaumian-2)
Civil Works & Steel Works                0.01   0.06   0.08   0.04    0.13   0.16   0.00   0.06   0.06   0.05    0.25    0.30
Circuit Breakers, transformers           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.32    3.51   3.83   0.32   3.51    3.83    0.64    7.02    7.66
Maintenance Tools & Test Equipment       0.00   0.04   0.04   0.00    0.14   0.14   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.28    0.28
Base Cost        0.01   0.10   0.12   0.36    3.77   4.13   0.32   3.57   3.89    0.69    7.45    8.14
Sub-component Cost w/contingencies     0.01   0.11   0.12   0.46    4.09   4.56   0.47   3.96   4.43    0.94    8.17    9.11
Of which IDA:        0.00   0.11   0.11   0.00    4.09   4.09   0.00   3.96   3.96   0.00   8.17    8.17
C. Yerevan Distribution: (1) Rehabilitation
Circuit breakers                      0.13    1.38   1.50   0.25    2.75   3.00   0.13    1.38    1.50   0.50    5.50    6.00
Fuses and Transformers                0.00   0.04   0.04   0.01    0.06   0.07   0.00   0.04   0.04   0.01    0.12    0.13
MV & LV Cable/OH                      0.18   0.66   0.84   0.35    1.33   1.68   0.18    0.66   0.84    0.70   2.65    3.35
Base Cost        0.30   2.07   2.37   0.61    4.14   4.74   0.30   2.07   2.37    1.21    8.27    9.48
Sub-component Cost w/contingencies     0.37   2.40   2.78   0.85    4.91   5.77   0.49   2.51    3.00   1.71    9.83   11.54
(2) Yerevan Accounting/Billing System    0.00   0.44   0.44   0.00    0.88   0.88   0.00   0.44   0.44    0.00    1.75    1.75
Sub-component Cost wlcontingencies     0.00   0.46   0.46   0.00    0.95   0.95   0.00   0.49   0.49   0.00    1.90    1.90
Distribution Component - Total Cost      0.37   2.87   3.24   0.85    5.86   6.72   0.49   3.00   3.48    1.71   11.73   13.44
Of which IDA:        0.00   2.40   2.40   0.00    4.91   4.91   0.00   2.51   2.51    0.00   9.83    9.83
D. Armenergo Dispatch: computers/software   0.00   0.25   0.25   0.00    0.76   0.76   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    1.01    1.01
Of which IDA:        0.00   0.25   0.25   0.00    0.76   0.76   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.01   1.010
E. Technical Services
1. Procurement Assist. & Impl. Supervision  0.00   0.63   0.63   0.00    0.25   0.25   0.00   0.13   0.13    0.00    1.00    1.00
2. Establishment and support to PIU      0.00   0.05   0.05   0.00    0.06   0.06   0.00   0.09   0.09    0.00    0.20    0.20
3. Financial audit of Armenergo & YDC    0.00   0.10   0.10   0.00    0.10   0.10   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.20    0.20
4. Management strengthening of Armenergo    0.00   0.05   0.05   0.00    0.15   0.15   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.20    0.20
Total Technical Services (IDA financed)  0.00   0.83   0.83   0.00    0.56   0.56   0.00   0.22   0.22    0.00    1.60    1.60
E. Operating Costs of PIU (IDA financed)  0.00   0.10   0.10   0.00    0.20   0.20   0.00   0.10   0.10    0.00   0.40    0.40
|Total Project Cost                      0.59   5.44   6.28   1.78   14.63  16.41   1.23   8.88  10.11    3.60  29.20   32.80
Int. during Construction/Commitment Fee      0.04   0.04           0.03   0.03            0.11    0.11    0.00   0.17    0.17
Total Financing Required                 0.59   5.73   6.32   1.78   14.66  16.44   1.23   8.99  10.21    3.60  29.37   32.97
Projected Average exchange rate, drams/$  552                  604                    645
Projected average annual inflation      9.1%   2.2%           9.6%    2.2%           9.4%   2.2%
Projected inflation applied to project costs  14.1%   2.2%  14.6%    2.2%        14.4%   2.2%



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                                      33
Annex 4
A.    Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
In million constant 1997 US dollars, except where otherwise specified)
Present Value of Flows              Fiscal Impact
((g10% discount)
Econoniic        Financial
Analysis        Analysis           Taxes        Subsidies
Benefits                            320.2            285.1             9.4
Availability                        193.2             47.0             9.4
Technical Loss Reduction            127.0             98.0               -
Commercial Loss Reduction               -            140.1
Costs                               214.1            214.1
Investment                          184.4            180.1
Incremental Operating                16.0             15.4
Working Capital                       13.6            13.6
Net Benefits, million US$           106.2             71.1             9.4
I  R,%                               24%             23%   __                    _
B.     Main Assumptions (see attached)
C.    Sensitivity Analysis
Economic                   Financial
Sensitivity                       NPV       IRR  Switch*      NPV    FIRR  Switch
Investment costs (+ 10%)         86,125     21%   53%       51,068      19%   31%
Investment costs (+ 20%)         66,081     18%   53%       31,024      15%   31%
Benefits(- 10%)                  74,145     21%   33%       42,593      18%   22%
Benefits (- 20%)                42,120      16%   33%       14,074      13%   22%
* Switching values of critical items (change in values to result in NPV of 0 at 10% discount rate):
D.     Electricity Balance
(GWh)                      1988   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  1998*
Domestic Generation       15,305 10,362  9,520  9,004  6,295  5,658  5,574  6,211  6,012  5,022
Thermal Plants:           8,961   8,807   7,970  5,960  2,002  2,144  3,338  2,318  3,032  2,139
of which: Yerevan         2,961  2,142  2,390  1,658    502    412    710    754    758    381
Hrazdan  5,690  6,490  5,426  4,240   1,490   1,692  2,622   1,562  2,273   1,757
Hydro Plants:              1,534  1,555   1,550  3,044  4,293  3,514   1,932  1,569  1,380  1,294
of which: Sevan-Hrazdan    524    445    720  1,680  2,842  2,118    777    593    535    454
Vorotan    836    994    700  1,232  1,331  1,276  1,035    889    760    787
Nuclear (Medzamor)         4,810      0      0       0       0      0    304  2,324   1,600  1,590
Imports                       0  1,699  1,570    330    114         0      0       0     67       0
Exports                    2,920    779                                   61    127    116    198
Net supply to transmission  11,218 10,528 10,370  8,816  6,093  5,468  5,181   5,631   5,609  4,686
Total System Losses        1,663   1,650  1,675  3,025  2,390  2,250  2,189  2,317  2,135  1,736
End-user Consumption       9,555  8,878  8,695  5,791   3,703  3,218  2,992  3,314  3,474  2,950
Of which: Industrial      4,554  4,528   2,780   1,487    583    638    730    732    731    528
Construction            253    470    352    125    104        82      90     43   N/A    N/A
Transport               365    469    347    251    214    205    200    158    153    122
Agriculture            1,873  1,152  2,180   1,279    495    400    310    331    277    302
Households/commercial  2,440  2,241   2,974  2,616  2,297   1,893   1,662          1,673   1,542
* For 10 months of 1998



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                              34
Main Assumptions for Economic and Financial Analysis
1998     1999     2000     2001     2002     2003      2004     2005     2010      2011     2012
A. Transmission Rehabilitation Investment Program, '000 US$ (in constant 1997 prices)                                                             Total
Total Investment Program                    2,560    5,310   12,368    6,000   10,000   11,376   11,376   11,376   11,376   11,376   11,376  150,000
WB & OECF Financed Project Cost             2,560    5,310   12,368    6,000    4,000   30,238   (Total)
of which:  WB (without price contingencies)  2,560    5,310    2,368                     10,238   (Total)
OECF (without price contingencies)    -        -   10,000    6,000    4,000   20,000   (Total)
B. Distribution Rehabilitation Investment Program, '000 US$ (in constant 1997 prices)                                                             Total
Yerevan                                     2,583    5,166    2,583    2,830    5,415    9,903    9,903    9,903    9,903    9,903    9,903  117,607
Other 10 companies                          3,518    7,035   13,518    3,170    6,585    9,857    9,857    9,857    9,857    9,857    9,857  132,393
Total Investment Program                    6,101   12,202   16,101    6,000   12,000   19,760   19,760   19,760   19,760   19,760   19,760  250,000
WB & OECF Financed Project Cost             6,101   12,202   16,101    6,000    4,000   44,403   (Total)
of which:  WB (without price contingencies)  6,101   12,202    6,101                     24,403   (Total)
OECF (without price contingencies)    -        -   10,000    6,000    4,000   20,000   (Total)
C. Electricity Demand Forecast               1996     1997     1998     1999      2000     2001     2002     2003      2009     2010     2011      2012
End User Demand, GWh                        4,396    4,755    5,113    5,472    5,830    6,148    6,466    6,784    9,084    9,500    9,935   10,390
Growth (%)                                            8.2%     7.5%     7.0%     6.6%      5.5%     5.2%     4.9%     4.8%      4.6%     4.6%     4.6%
Of which: demand in Yerevan                 2,068    2,237    2,405    2,574    2,743    2,892    3,042    3,191    4,273    4,469    4,674    4,888
% of national demand                         47%      47%      47%       47%      47%      47%      47%      47%       47%      47%       47%      47%
D. Economic cost of electricity supply, US$/kWh                     E. Financial cost of electricity***      1997      1998     1999     2000      2001
Long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of generation*    0.0375              Average cost of generation, excl. VAT*  0.0207   0.0235   0.0262   0.0290   0.0290
Estimated Economic cost of transmission    0.0100                   Av. sales price to distribution, excl. VAT  0.0256   0.0287   0.0319   0.0350   0.0350
Estimated Economic cost of distribution - HV  0.0050                Av. retail tariff (excl. VAT)           0.0350   0.0400   0.0450   0.0500   0.0500
Estimated Economic cost of distribution - LV  0.0200                Transrmission margin                    0.0049   0.0053   0.0056   0.0060   0.0060
Total Economic cost of supply- HV          0.0525    25.0%          Distribution margin                     0.0094   0.0113   0.0131    0.0150   0.0150
Total Economic cost of supply - LV         0.0675    75.0%
Economic cost of unserved electricity, US$/kWh
Value to average consumer**                 0.150
Average economic supply cost (LRMC)         0.064
Incremental value to economy                0.086
* @10% discount rate (based on Least-cost investment plan, Lahmeyer International, November 1996)
** Based on operating kerosene generator sets (households) and diesel generators (industries), excluding environmental costs
*** US cents/kWh In constant 1997 US$



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                                               35
Economic Analysis of the Transmission and Distribution Investment Program
1998      1999     2000      2001      2002       2003      2004      2005      2011      2012
A. COSTS
1. TransmissionProgramlnvestment ('OOOUS$)         2,560     5,310    12,368     6,000    10,000    11,376    11,376    11,376    11,376    11,376
As % of 15 year investment program  1.7%     3.5%       8.2%     4.0%      6.7%       7.6%      7.6%      7.6%      7.6%      7.6%
2. Distribution System Investment (000 US$)         6,101    12,202    16,101     6,000    12,000    19,760    19,760    19,760    19,760    19,760
As % of 15 year investment program  2.4%      4.9%      6.4%     2.4%      4.8%       7.9%      7.9%      7.9%      7.9%      7.9%
TotalInvestmentCosts,'000US$     8,660    17,512    28,469    12,000    22,000    31,136    31,136    31,136    31,136    31,136
As % of 15 year investment program  2.2%     4.4%       7.1%     3.0%       5.5%      7.8%      7.8%      7.8%      7.8%      7.8%
3. Inc. Operation & Maint. Costs (US$'000) (1.5%)    130       393       820     1,000     1,330     1,797     2,264     2,731      5,066     5,533
Total Annual Costs (US$'000)                      8,790    17,905    29,289    13,000    23,330    32,932    33,400    33,867    36,202    36,669
4. Working Capital, '000 US$                      15,000
Total Project and Program Costs, '000 US$        23,790    17,905    29,289    13,000    23,330    32,932    33,400    33,867    36,202    36,669
B. Projected Consumer Demand (GWh)                  5,113     5,472     5,830     6,148     6,466     6,784     7,102     7,420     9,500     9,935
C. BENEFITS
1. Availability
Availability w/o program (%)                       95.0%     94.6%     94.3%     93.9%     93.6%     93.2%     92.9%     92.5%      90.7%     90.4%
Availability w/program (%)                         95.1%     95.3%     95.7%     95.8%     96.1%     96.5%     96.8%     97.2%      99.1%     99.5%
Energydeliveredw/oprogram(GWh)                      4,857     5,178     5,497     5,775     6,050     6,324     6,595     6,864     8,618      8,977
Energydeliveredw/programr(GWh)                      4,863     5,215     5,578     5,891     6,213     6,544     6,878     7,214     9,418     9,887
Annual increased availability (GWh)                    5        37        81       116       163       221       283        351       800       910
Ec. value of unserved electricity, US$/kWh  0.086  0.086     0.086     0.086     0.086     0.086     0.086     0.086     0.086      0.086
Incremental Revenue Benefit ('000$)                468      3,198     6,957    10,010    14,023    19,034    24,450    30,271    69,015    78,504
2. Technical Loss Reduction
Technical Losses w/o program (%)    20.0%  20.5%     21.0%     21.5%     22.0%     22.5%     23.0%      23.5%     26.0%     26.5%
Technical Losses wlprogram(%/6)    19.8%  19.5%     18.9%     18.7%     18.2%     17.6%     17.0%      16.4%     13.2%     12.6%
Supply from Generation w/o program (GWh)  6,136     6,593     7,054     7,470     7,889      8,310     8,735     9,164    11,970    12,568
Supply from Generation w/ program (GWh)  6,127     6,537     6,932     7,296     7,645     7,978      8,308     8,634    10,758    11,189
Savings throughreduced losses (GWh)      9        56       122       174       244       332       427       530      1212       1379
Ec. value of purchased electricity, US$/kWh    0.0375    0.0375    0.0375    0.0375    0.0375    0.0375    0.0375    0.0375    0.0375    0.0375
Value of reduced losses ('000 US$)                   332      2,100     4,575     6,531     9,148    12,454    16,028    19,870    45,438    51,702
Total Benefits (US$'000)                             800     5,298    11,533    16,541    23,171    31,488    40,478    50,141   114,453   130,206
NET BENEFITS (COSTS), '000 US$                   (22,990)  (12,606)  (17,756)    3,542      (159)   (1,444)    7,079    16,275    78,251    93,537



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                                 36
Financial Analysis of the Transmission and Distribution Investment Program
1998     1999      2000     2001      2002     2003      2004      2005      2011     2012
A. COSTS
1. Transmission Program Investment ('000 US$)    2,560    5,310    12,368     6,000    10,000    11,376    11,376    11,376    11,376    11,376
As % of 15 year investment program  1.7%     3.5%      8.2%     4.0%      6.7%      7.6%     7.6%      7.6%      7.6%     7.6%
2. Distribution System Investment ('000US$)      6,101    12,202    16,101    6,000    12,000    19,760    19,760    19,760    19,760    19,760
Total Investment Costs, '000 US$  8,660    17,512   28,469    12,000   22,000    31,136    31,136    31,136    31,136    31,136
Cumulative T&D (US$'000)    8,660   26,172    54,642   66,642    88,642   119,778   150,913  182,049  337,728   368,864
3. Inc. Operation & Maint. Costs (US$'000) (1.5%)  130      393       820     1,000    1,330     1,797     2,264    2,731     5,066     5,533
Total Annual Costs (US$'000)                    8,790    17,905   29,289    13,000   23,330   32,932    33,400   33,867    36,202    36,669
4. Working Capital, '000 US$                    15,000
Total Project and Program Costs, '000 US$      23,790    17,905   29,289    13,000   23,330    32,932    33,400    33,867   36,202    36,669
B. Projected Consumer Demand (GWh)               5,113     5,472    5,830     6,148    6,466     6,784    7,102      7,420    9,500     9,935
C. BENEFITS
1. Availability
Availability w/o program (%)                    95.0%     94.6%     94.3%    93.9%    93.6%     93.2%     92.9%     92.5%     90.7%    90.4%
Availability w/program (%)                      95.1%     95.3%     95.7%    95.8%    96.1%     96.5%     96.8%     97.2%     99.1%    99.5%
Energy delivered w/o program (GWh)               4,857     5,178    5,497     5,775    6,050     6,324     6,595     6,864    8,618     8,977
Annual increased availability w/program (GWh)        5       37        81       116      163       221      283       351       800       910
Financial value of unserved electricity, US$/kWh  0.017    0.019  0.021    0.021    0.021     0.021    0.021     0.021     0.021     0.021
Incremental Revenue Benefit ('000$)               90       696     1,694    2,437     3,414    4,634      5,953    7,370    16,804    19,114
VATon incremental revenues ('000 US$)    18       139      339       487       683      927     1,191     1,474     3,361     3,823
2. Technical Loss Reduction
Technical Losses w/o program (%)    20.0%  20.5%    21.0%     21.5%    22.0%     22.5%     23.0%    23.5%     26.0%     26.5%
Technical Losses w/programn (%)    19.8%  19.5%    18.9%     18.7%    18.2%     17.6%     17.0%     16.4%    13.2%     12.6%
Supply from Generation w/o program (GWh)    6,136   6,593     7,054    7,470     7,889    8,310     8,735     9,164    11,970    12,568
Savings through reduced losses w/program (GWh)    9        56       122      174       244      332       427       530      1212     1379
Financial cost of purchased electricity, US$/kWh    0.0235    0.0262    0.0290   0.0290   0.0290    0.0290    0.0290    0.0290    0.0290    0.0290
Value of reduced losses (US$'000)                  208     1,469    3,538     5,051    7,075     9,631    12,395    15,366   35,139    39,983
3. Commercial Loss Reduction
Cornmercial Losses w/o program (% of demand)    13.0%  12.8%    12.6%    12.4%     12.1%     11.9%    11.7%     11.5%     10.4%     10.2%
Commercial Lossesw/program(%ofdemand)    13.0%       11.2%      9.3%     7.5%      6.7%      5.8%     5.0%      4.7%      3.1%     2.8%
Reduced losses (GWh)       0        89      189       299      354       414       477       505      694       735
Financial value (sales price ex. VAT), US$/kWh    0.0400   0.0450   0.0500   0.0500   0.0500   0.0500    0.0500   0.0500    0.0500    0.0500
Reduced commercial losses (US$'000)                  -    3,986    9,439    14,931    17,705    20,675    23,842    25,274    34,692    36,769
Total Benefits (US$'000)                          298      6,151    14,671   22,419    28,193    34,941    42,191    48,011    86,634    95,865
FNET BENEFITS (COSTS), '000 US$                (23,493)  (11,753)  (14,618)    9,419    4,864    2,008     8,791    14,144   50,433    59,197



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Proiect                             37
Annex 5
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project
NOTES TO FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR ARMENERGO AND YDC
Projections are dated December 1997 (as negotiated). These have not been updated to take into account
developments during 1998.
INCOME STATEMENT
*  Armenergo's revenues and costs are stated on an accrual basis based on tariff margins broadly agreed
with the Energy Commission and the enterprises. Tariffs are set to cover operating costs, some debt-
service, an 8% profit margin on value-added, and include a technical and non-technical loss provision
of 18.5% (in transmission and distribution). Additional tariff provisions are likely during 1998-99,
mainly to accommodate the power sector's debt-service after the financial rehabilitation plan has been
adopted (December 1997).
* Technical & Commercial Losses. Planned technical losses, estimated at 18.5% in transmission and
distribution in 1997 (6.1% in transmission and 12.4% in distribution), are included in the tariff.
Through proposed investments, these losses are expected to drop to 12.9% by 2002. Actual losses,
above planned technical losses (called "commercial" or "unmetered" losses), are higher and difficult
to estimate because of sub-optimal operating conditions, caused by present demand levels, physical
condition of the networks, and absence of adequate metering. As reflected below, sector authorities
believe these losses can be reduced quickly through the proposed project. A 1% decrease in losses
results in a I billion dram increase in revenue.
* Operations, Maintenance & Labor costs. O&M costs are defined here as the sum of maintenance,
depreciation and labor costs, including social security payments. Maintenance costs are a percentage
of replacement value of fixed assets. Maintenance costs have been escalated (relative to 1996 levels)
to reflect actual requirements. Labor costs are assumed to remain constant during the period of 1997-
2002 based on projected decrease in sector employment levels; however, average salary is assumed to
increase at a rate of inflation plus 5%. Depreciation is based on present book value of assets;
however, revaluation is expected to be completed by December 1999.
* Bad-Debt Write-Off. The projections assume that Armenergo will remain current on its accounts
payable (payment within 90 days). During 1997-2000, Armenergo's receivables in excess of 90 days
will be converted into a supplier credit (long term asset) at 7.5% annual interest (capitalized until end-
1999) and amortized over 5 years, beginning in 2000. YDC's receivables older than 90 days have
been treated as a bad-debt and written off, while its payables (to Armenergo), accumulated from
January 1, 1997 till December 31, 1999, have been treated as a long-term supplier credit.
* Tax Implications - VAT. The cost of electricity purchased by Armenergo and the distribution
companies includes 20% value added tax which is passed through to end-users. While Armenian
accounting rules are vague on the treatment of VAT on bad-debts (uncollectible revenues), the
financial projections assume VAT is paid (or due) on all accrued revenues beginning from January 1,
1997. Therefore, no VAT is written off in the income statements. The stock of receivables and
payables as of January 1, 1996 includes VAT. The financial rehabilitation plan will define the
treatment of VAT on receivables from enterprises for whom payment is guaranteed by the budget.
* Profit Tax. Profit tax is 30% throughout the projection period and is assessed on income after bad
debt write-off and interest on short-term debt. According to national rules, interest on long-term debt
is not tax-exempt.
BALANCE SHEET
* Fixed assets have not been revalued. The methodology for revaluation is expected to be defined by
June 1999 and the revaluation completed by end- 1999. (See also "Net Worth" below).



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                               38
*  Accounts Receivable and Payable. Accounts Receivable and Payable have two components: Old
stock of receivables and payables (accumulated as of 12/31/96), and current receivables and payables
accumulated thereafter. The stock of old accounts receivable which are not written off against old
accounts payable as part of the financial rehabilitation plan have been assumed to remain on the
company books through the projection period. The stock of remaining old payables, on the other
hand, are assumed to be paid in equal installments over five years beginning in 1998. These
assumptions will be revised as the financial rehabilitation plan is implemented.
*  New accounts receivable and payable (from January 1, 1997) are assumed to be 90 days in 1997,
1998 and 1999, 75 days in 2000, 60 days in 2001 and 45 days in 2002. Based on average annual
collection targets agreed under SAC-II, YDC and Armenergo's older non-collected amounts are
written off as bad-debt. While YDC and other distribution company payables to Armenergo are
financed by a long-term supplier credit from Armenergo, Armenergo is expected to remain current on
its payables, partly supported by the recapitalization of the company under the proposed project.
*  World Bank and OECF loans are assumed to be on-lent on to Armenergo and YDC on the following
terms: 7.5% annual interest rate, interest capitalized during 3 years, principal payable after 4 years.
The loan will be paid in equal installments over 16 years following the 4-year grace period. There is
a commitment fee of 0.25% on the un-disbursed balance of loan.
*   Net Worth. The negative Net Worth of Armenergo and YDC is mainly a result of the writing-off of
bad debts for 1996 and 1997 during the restatement of reported financial statements in accordance
with LAS and the resulting negative net income (retained earnings). It is also a result of the gross
undervaluation of fixed assets. According to rough estimates, revaluation of Armenergo's fixed
assets would result in a 50-70 fold increase in their residual book value. Fixed assets of power sector
enterprises are to be revalued during 1998, and the new values will be reflected in the projections as
they become available. The difference between the new (revalued) and present book value of fixed
assets will add to Net Worth and reflect a more realistic value of the company.
* Financial Rehabilitation Plan. Projections have incorporated payable and receivable restructuring
agreements under the energy sector's Financial Rehabilitation Plan (see Annex 11).
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
* Assumptions on changes in working capital and bad-debt write-offs have a profound impact on cash-
flow requirements. It is assumed that cash flow deficits will be financed within the year they are
incurred; therefore, the cash balance at the beginning of each year is assumed to be zero.
Technical and Commercial Losses
(to be updated by June 1999 to incorporate estimates under the Financial Rehabilitation Plan - Annex  11)
1996  i 1997    1998    1999    2000    2001  l 2002
Losses in Armenergo (as % of purchased power)
*  Planned technical         8.24%    6.05%    5.90%    5.75%    5.60%    5.50%    5.40%
*  Conimercial               1.94%    1.80%    1.09%    0.70%    0.50%    0.40%    0.30%
Losses at Yerevan Distribution Compan (as % of purchased power)
*  Planned technical         13.61%   13.50%   12.83% [ 12.18%   10.36%   8.80%    7.92%
*  Commercial                12.00%   7.50%    3.00%    2.00%    1.50%    1.00%    0.50%
As % of Armenergo purchased  ower
*  Planned technical         12.22%   12.44%   11.93% | 11.40%   9.72%  | 8.28%  | 7.47%
*  Commercial                10.78%   6.91%    2.79%  [ 1.87%    1.41%    0.94%    0.47%
Total Transmission and Distribution Losses (as % of Armenergo's purchased electricity)
.  Planned technical       [ 20.46%   18.49% 0  17.83%   17.15% | 15.33% | 13.78%   12.87%
*  Conmercial              [ 12.72%   8.71%  | 3.88%    2.57%    1.91%    1.34%    0.77%



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                                     39
ARMENERGO (Electricity Transmission and Dispatch Company) FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
(in millions of current drams)
Exchange Rate: 531 drams/US$ from 1998 onwards
Year ending December 31    >     1996      1997     1998      1999      2000     2001      2002
(actual)
BASIC ASSUMPTIONS
Buying tariff from generation, Dr/kWh, w/out VAT        6.44      8.90     9.79     10.77     11.85    12.79     13.43
Tariffnargin, Dr/kWh                                    1.96      2.70     2.97      2.97      3.19     3.19      3.19
Tariff margin, US$/kWh                                0.0044   0.0055   0.0056   0.0056   0.0060    0.0060    0.0060
Purchased electricity, GWh                             5,714     5,757    5,988     6,167    6,321     6,478     6,638
Sold Electricity (GWh)                                 5,244    5,409     5,634     5,813     5,967    6,121     6,279
Technical losses, %                                     8.2%     6.1%      5.9%     5.8%      5.6%      5.5%     5.4%
Tariff Collections, %                                   55%       65%      82%       90%      95%       98%       98%
INCOME STATEMENT                                        1996     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001     2002
(actual)
Revenues, million drams                               51,744   75,293    86,297   95,857   107,642   117,379   125,225
Less. VATon revenues    8,624    12,549    14,383    15,976    17,940    19,563    20,871
Net Revenues (excluding VAT)                          43,120   62,744    71,914   79,881    89,702   97,816   104,354
Cost of electricity purchased (excluding VAT)         36,794   51,240   58,619   66,415    74,883    82,872    89,165
Operations and Maintenance costs                       2,572     5,898    5,982     5,680    5,776     5,732     5,470
Of which.       Maintenance costs (excluding VAT)      1,409    4,282    4,282     3,823     3,557     3,333    3,071
Total Labor costs   998     1,449    1,449     1,449     1,449     1,449    1,449
Depreciation     165      167       250      408       770       950       950
Total Operations and Maintenance Expenses (excl. VAT)  39,366   57,138   64,601    72,096    80,660    88,603    94,635
Bad Debt Expense, excl. VAT                                      1,231     1,422    1,586     1,785     1,948    2,080
Interest and Finance Fees (on short-term debt)          1,280    1,358      125         -         -        -         -
Operating Income (after write-offs & interest on ST debt)  2,473  3,017    5,767    6,199    7,257     7,264     7,639
Interest and Finance Fees (on long-tern debt)  -     208     1,037     1,659    2,150     1,853     2,084
Income Taxes      742      905     1,730     1,860    2,177     2,179     2,292
* Net profit is positive under the following assumptions:
Only 2% of non-collections is written off as bad debt (vs. 100% of non-collections which would make the NI negative 8 billion drams in 1997.
The balance of accounts receivable (after writing off 2%) is recorded as a long-term supplier credit to distribution companies
1996     1997      1998     1999      2000     2001      2002
Interest on addl. working capital (to finance non-collection)  -     -      494       531      601       290       (0)



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                     40
ARMENERGO FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS (Contd.)
BALANCE SEEET                                           1996      1997     1998      1999     2000      2001      2002
(actual)
Total fixed assets @ historical value                   1,342    1,342    3,017    6,166    13,409    17,010    19,178
Total Accumulated Depreciation                            192      358      609      1,016    1,786     2,736    3,686
Total Net Fixed Assets                                  1,150      983    2,408    5,150   11,622    14,274    15,492
Cash & short-term investments                             67         -         -        -         -         -      719
Accounts Receivable                                    59,200   59,227   62,049   64,477    67,418    69,837    71,797
of which: old (as of 12/31/96) Accounts Receivable   59,200   41,017   41,017    41,017    41,017    41,017    41,017
Accounts Receivable from current year, excl. VAT       15,175    17,527    19,550   22,001    24,017    25,650
VAT collectible on Accounts Receivable from current year         3,035     3,505    3,910    4,400     4,803     5,130
Total Current Assets                                   59,690   61,368   64,191    66,389    69,197    71,503    74,051
Lon -term Assets (Credit to Distribution Cos.)              -    6,161    16,986   22,170   22,441    20,606    18,647
Accounts Payable                                       58,300   55,279   57,958    60,700    64,417    65,704    67,141
of which: old (as of 12/31/96) Accounts Payable   58,300   40,117    40,117   40,117    40,117    40,117    40,117
Accounts Payable from current year excl. VAT        12,635    14,867    17,153    20,250    21,322    22,520
VAT payable on Accounts Payable from current year         2,527    2,973     3,431    4,050     4,264     4,504
Total Current Liabilities:                             60,604   56,373   58,199   60,821    64,538    65,824    67,262
Long-Term Debt:                                         5,401    8,817    18,565   22,450    24,940    28,109    29,083
WB/OECF Loan          -         -    1,584    4,871    12,646    15,897    17,281
WB Working Capital        -        -    8,164      8,762    9,359     9,359    9,037
Other Comunercial Banks    2,388   5,804    5,804     5,804        -         -         -
Other Debtors    3,014    3,014    3,014     3,014    2,936     2,853     2,765
LT Debt for Working Capital                                -        -     6,583    7,082     8,018     3,868      (0)
Addl. Working Capital Reqd. (to cover cash-flow deficit)    -    6,583      499       936      414         0         -
Total Long-term debt                                   5,401    15,401   25,647   30,468   33,373    31,978    29,083
of which: for supplier credit   -    6,161    16,986   22,170    22,441    20,606    18,647
% of long-term debt used for supplier credit       40%      66%       73%       67%      64%       64%
Other Long-Term Liabilities (deferred VAT)                  -        -         -        -         -        -         -
Total Long-Term Liabilities.                            5,401    8,817    18,565   22,450   24,940    28,109   29,083
Net WYorth                                            (5,165)  (3,261)    (261)    2,419    5,350    8,582    11,846
______~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                 iB    Ims



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                    41
ARMENERGO FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS (Contd.)
CASH FLOW STATEMENT                                    1996      1997     1998      1999     2000      2001     2002
(actual)
Beginning Cash                                             -       67         -        -         -        -         -
1. Funds from Operations
Net Income                                             1,731    1,904    3,000    2,680    2,930    3,232       3,264
Change in Accounts Receivable                       (31,478)      (27)  (2,823)  (2,428)  (2,941)   (2,419)   (1,959)
Change in Inventory                                    (295)  (1,718)       (0)      230       133      112       131
Change in Accounts Payable                            30,031   (3,021)    2,679    2,743     3,717     1,286    1,438
ChangeinOtherCurrentLiabilities                          167    (150)    (121)    (121)          -        -         -
Depreciation Ex  unse                                    165      167      250       408      770       950      950
2. Investment Program
Capital Investment                                     (818)        -   (1,675)  (3,149)  (7,243)   (3,602)   (2,168)
Acquisition of othler propel and investments
3. Funds from loans and equity
Cash from changes in LT Credit to distribution companies   0   (6,161)  (10,825)   (5,184)    (271)    1,835    1,959
Short Term Debt                                          (1)  (1,060)    (732)         0         -        -         -
Long Term Debt (secured, WB/OECF)                         -    3,416    9,748      3,884    2,491     3,169      974
Other Long-Term Liabilities (deferred VAT)
Changes in Private E uiX
Cash Deficit at year-end (without additional financing)   -         -  (6,583)   (7,082)   (8,018)   (3,868)       0
Additional Working Capital Required (to cover cash-flow)   -   (6,583)    (499)    (936)    (414)       (0)         -
Key Financial Ratios:                                   1996     1997     1998      1999     2000      2001     2002
Current ratio with additional working capital required
(Current Assets+Addit. Work. Cap)/Current Liabilities    1.0       1.0      1.1      1.1       1.1       1.1      1.1
Current ratio without additional working capital required
(Current Assets/Current Liabilities)                     0.2       1.3      1.3      1.2       1.2       1.2      1.2
Debt service coverage ratio                                0       0.6      1.7       1.9      0.5       2.2      1.3
Debt to Total Assets Ratio                              0.12      0.14     0.22     0.24      0.24      0.26     0.27
Operating Income to Sales Ratio                          0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1
Net Income to Sales Ratio                                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                       42
YEREVAN DISTRIBUTION COMPANY FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
(In millons of current drams)
Exchange Rate: 531 drams/US$ from 1998 onwards
Year ending December 31  >   196               1997        1998       199         2000       2001        2002
(actual)
MAIN ASSUMPTIONS
Buying tariff from transmission (w/out VAT)                8.58      11.67      13.02       14.02      15.33       16.30       16.95
Tariff margin, Dr/kWh                                      2.16       3.30        6.00       6.96        7.97       7.97        7.97
Tariff margin, US $/kWh                                                      $  0.0113  $  0.0131  $  0.0150  $  0.0150  $  0.0150
Sales tariff, Dr/kWh, w/out VAT                           10.74       14.97      19.02      20.97       23.30      24.26       24.92
Purchased electricity, GWh                                2,070      2,080       2,184      2,271       2,340      2,409       2,481
Electricity Sold (GWh)                                    1,788       1,799      1,904      1,995       2,097      2,197       2,284
Technical Losses, %                                       13.6%      13.5%      12.8%       12,2%      10.4%        8.8%       7.9%
Tariff Collections, %                                      60%        72%         82%        90%         95%        96%         97%
INCOME STATEMENT                                           1996       1997       l998        7999       2000        2001       2002
(actual)
Revenues (M drams), incl. VAT                           23,044     32,317     43,453     50,201      58,632     63,968      68,292
Less: VAT on Revenues      3,841      5,386       7,242      8,367      9,772      10,661      11,382
Net Revenues (excluding VAT)                             19,203     26,931      36,211     41,834      48,860     53,307      56,910
Cost of Electricity Purchased (oxcl. VAT)               17,751     24,270     28,433     31,839      35,870     39,264      42,049
Operations & Maintenance Costs                            1,739      4,380       7,411      7,599       7,392      7,052       6,532
Of which.               Maintenance Costs (excl. VAT)      977      2,928       5,864      5,883       5,367      4,880       4,361
Total Labor costs      696      1,349       1,349      1,349       1,349      1,349       1,349
Depreciation        65        103         199        367         676        823         823
Total Operations and Maintenance Expenses (exci. VAT)    19,490     28,649      35,844     39,437      43,263     46,316      48,581
Bad Debt Expense (write-off)       -        900       4,230      2,797        711        1,036        819
Operating Income (after write-offs & VAT)                 (278)    (2,619)    (3,863)       (400)       4,887      5,954       7,510
Interest and Finance Fees     34        355       1,173       1,921      2,686       2,414      2,264
Income Taxes        274          -           -          -       1,466      1,786       2,253
Net Income Before Extraordinary Itemns                    (586)    (2,974)    (5,036)    (2,321)         735        1,754      2,992
Extraordinary Expense**                                           -          -,



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                                   43
YEREVAN DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (Contd.)
BALANCE SHEET                                           1996       1997      1998       1999       2000       2001       2002
(actual)
Total fixed assets @ historical value                  1,404      2,070      3,985      7,357     13,536     16,473     18,260
Total Accumulated Depreciation                           163        267       466        833       1,510      2,333      3,156
Total Net Fixed Assets                                 1,241      1,802      3,519      6,524     12,027     14,141     15,104
Cash & short-term investments                             43          -          -      1,319        122          -          -
Accounts Receivable                                   18,609     17,187     19,933     21,597     23,676     24,992     26,058
of which: old (as of 12/31/96) Accounts Receivable    18,609  9,219  9,219      9,219      9,219      9,219      9,219
Accounts Receivable from current year excl. VAT          6,640      8,929     10,315     12,048     13,144     14,033
VAT collectible on Accounts Receivable from current year        1,328      1,786      2,063      2,410      2,629      2,807
Inventory                                              3,490      1,464      2,932      2,941      2,684      2,440      2,180
Total Current Assets                                  22,154     18,651     22,865     24,539     26,360     27,432     28,238
Short Term Debt                                         319        200          -          -          -          -          -
Accounts Payable                                      23,443     14,053     14,053     14,053     16,985     16,612     16,102
of which: old (as of 12/31/96) Accounts Payable    23,443  14,053  14,053    14,053     14,053     14,053     14,053
Accounts Payable from current year excl. VAT               -         -          -      2,443      2,132       1,707
VAT payable on Accounts Payable from current year              -          -          -        489        426        341
Other Current Liabilities                               681        337        225        112        112        112        112
Total Current Liabilities:                            24,443     14,590     14,278     14,165     17,097     16,724     16,214
Long-Term Debt:                                            -      9,388     19,772     29,595     32,055     30,149     26,320
WB/OECF Loan           -          -      1,565      4,814     11,541     14,220     15,322
SUPPLIER CREDIT            -      9,388     18,207    24,781     20,514      15,928     10,998
Other Long-Term Liabilities (deferred VAT)                 -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Total Long-Term Liabilities:                               -      9,388     19,772     29,595     32,055     30,149     26,320
Net worth:                                            (1,048)    (4,022)    (9,059)   (11,380)   (10,645)    (8,890)    (5,898)
Worldng Capital                                            -          -       497           0          -          -      3,590
Additional Working Capital Required dunng current year     -        497        895          -          -      3,590      3,116



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                     44
YEREVAN DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (Contd.)
CASH FLOW                                                1996       1997       1998        1999       2000       2001       2002
(actual)
1. Funds from Operations
Net Income                                              (586)    2,974)    (5,036)    (2,321)        735      1,754       2,992
Change in Accounts Receivable                          (7,821)      1,422    (2,746)    (1,664)    (2,079)    (1,316)    (1,066)
Change in inventory                                    (2,935)      2,026    (1,468)       (10)        258        244        260
Change in Accounts Payable                               5,597    (9,390)        (0)          -      2,932       (373)      (510)
Change in other current Liabilities                    (4,767)      (343)      (112)      (112)          -           -          -
Depreciation Expense                                       65         103        199        367        676        823        823
2. Investment program
Capital Investments                                    (1,218)    (666)    (1,916)      (3,372)    (6,180)    (2,937)    (1,786)
Acquisition of other property and investments            (1.6)       1,6        -          -          -
3. Funds from loans and equity
Short term Debt                                           319       (119)      (200)          -          -
Long Term Debt                                               -      9,388     10,384      9,822      2,461     (1,907)    (3,829)
Other Long-Term Liabilities (deferred VAT)                   -          -          -          -          -           -          -
Changes in Private Equity
Cash/Additional liabilities needed (end of period)        43      (497)       (895)     1,319        122      (3,590)    (3,116)



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Proiect                          45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Contents
Procurement
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (Table A)
Procurement Information (Table B)
Procurement Plan (Table C)
Disbursement
Special Account
Documentation
Allocation of Credit Proceeds (Table D)



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                        46
ANNEX 6
ARMENIA
Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The procurement of goods and services of the IDA financed components would be procured in
accordance with the Bank/IDA procurement guidelines9. The project components not financed by the
IDA would be procured in accordance with the national regulations or the co-financing institutions'
procurement regulations. The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are
summarized in Table A of Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule
of the major procurement actions is presented in Table C of Annex 6. All other procurement information,
including capability of the implementing agency, dates for publication of GPN and the Bank's review
process is presented in Table B of Annex 6.
Annex 6, Table A: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US $ Million Equivalent )
Procurement Methods
CategorV                    ICB       NCB        Other      N.I.F      Total Cost
1. Works
1.1 Rehabilitation & Maintenance                                          0.05_ _       0.05
2. Goods and S and I
2.1 Equipment, Vehicles & Machinery       17.8                  0.95*     11.777'       30.52
(17.8)               (0.95)                  (18.75)
2.2 Construction Materials (steel, concrete)                    0.25*                   0.25
_ _ (0.25_      _      (0.25)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Technical Assistance                                        1.60                    1.60
(1 60)                 (1.603
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Recurrent Costs                                             0.40                    0.40
(0.40)_                (0.40)
_                                            _                _~~~~~~~~~~~T
4.2 Interest during Construction                                          0.15'3        0.15
TOTAL                                     17.8   1               3.2      11.97         32.97
Financed by IDA                           (17.8)                (3.2) _( 21.00)
9 Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997.
Consultants services shall be procured in accordance with "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" Published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997.
Note: NIF = Not IDA-financed.
*      IS (US$ 1. 0 million) and NS (US$0.2 million)
10     Site preparation and repairs to be financed by beneficiaries.
US$8.2 million parallel-financed by USAID and procured according to their procedures. US$3.6 million of
local costs financed by the beneficiaries.
12     Incremental operating expenses of the PIU, including logistical support, translation, communications, office
supplies, fuel and travel, based on agreed rates and an agreed annual budget.
13     US$0.15 million interest during construction financed by Government.



Project Appraisal Document
Arnenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                     47
Annex 6, Table B: Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods and         ICB        NCB           IS          NS       Minor      Other    % of Credit
Civil Works                                                     Works   Methods   Subject to
Prior Review
Procurement     >$200,000    N/A       < $200,000   <$50,000      N/A
thresholds:                             up to an     up to an
individual and                        aggregate of   aggregate
aggregate                              $1,000,000      of
$200,000
Prior Review    $200,000     N/A         None         None        N/A                   85%
and up
Consultants      QCBS        QBS         Fixed        LCS       Qualifi-  Single    Individuals
Budget                 cations   Source
Procurement
method
thresholds
Prior Review    >$100,000  >$100,000      NA        >$100,000  >$100,000    NA       >$50,000 for
for fuims   for firms               for firms   for firms            individuals
Ex-post Review   Goods: 50% of the contracts not subject to prior review would be subject to ex-post review.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
The Project Implementation Unit, within the Ministry of Energy, assisted by local and international procurement
and project management consultants, will execute all project procurement on behalf of the beneficiaries. One staff
member of the PIU attended the ILO procurement of goods seminar, and the PIU has been working on various
procurement activities under PHRD Grant and PPF financing. An international consulting firm is being recruited to
provide procurement and project management assistance, and should be in p lace by May 1999.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement    Are the bidding documents for the
Strategy Paper Status: A draft Country Procurement Assessment   procurement actions of the first
Strategy note was prepared in mid -1997.                        year ready by negotiations?
Yes o No 1
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated Date of   Actual Date of         Indicate if there is     Domestic       Domestic
Project Launch     Publication of General   procurement subject to   Preference for  Preference
Workshop:          Procurement Notice:     mandatory SPN in         Goods          for Works, if
Development Business:                   applicable
March 1999         September 16, 1997               Yes o              Yes E
Update: February, 1999          No 0               No o         Yes No 0
Retroactive financing:                     Advance Procurement:
Yes c  No E  Explain:                      Yes o   No E  Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
PIU will supply status of procurement activities and provide quarterly updates of the procurement plan in each
quarterly progress report. The computerized management information system for the project will include a
component to track procurement activity.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: Parallel cofmancing of the
system metering component and the Yerevan Distribution Company accounting/billing/collection component by
USAID. Goods financed by USAID will be procured according to USAID procedures.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: Gultekin Yuksel, Procurement Specialist, Ext: 38078
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: A competent local procurement officer is
to be recruited in the field office in FY2000 and would provide procurement advice and consultation to the PIU.
Review and final clearance would continue to be provided from HQ by a Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS).



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                                    48
ANNEX 6, TABLE C: PROCUREMENT PLAN
1                      2            3             4             5                                      6 Estimated dates
Description                          Typel4    No. of         Estimated    Procure-        Pre-qual/SL-       (BD/RFP)       Bid                 Contract   Contract
slices,      Cost          ment           1. Invitation       1.             I.Invitation       signing     completion
items, or    (US$ '000)   Method '5       GPN/SPN/Local   Preparation    GPN/SPN/
Sub-                                      2. Opening                         Local
packages                                  3. Eval & Recom                    2. Opening
3. Eval &
._______________________________           . __________ _ __________   ____________                                      Recoin R ecom   A w ard
1. Transmission Rehabilitation         S&I           1             7,480        ICB              NA             08/01/99         08/20/99        02/2000   09/01/2001
11/01/99
.___________   _________________                      12/15/99
2. Vehicles & Tools (Transmission)      G            1                150        IS              NA             11/20/99          12/10/99       01/2000    12/31/2000
3. Testing Equipment                    G            1                140        IS              NA             11/10/99         12/01/99        01/2000
(Transn.ission)                                                                         ,        ._
4. Construction Materials (Steel,       G            2                250        IS              NA             11/01/99        01/01/2000       02/2000       06/2000
Cement) (Transmission)
5. Equipment (Transmission)             G            1                180        IS              NA           08/01/99           10/01/99        11/01/99     03/2000
6. Distribution Rehabilitation          G            1              9,320       ICB              NA             09/01/99         09/25/99        03/2000    12/31/2001
12/20/99;
02/2000
7. Equipment (Distribution)             G            3               280         IS              NA             08/01/99         10/01/99        11/01/99     03/2000
8. Equipment for Management             G            1              1,000       ICB              NA             10/01/99         10/15/99        04/2000      04/2001
Strengthening at Yerevan                                                                                                        01/15/2000
Distribution Company                                                                                                              03/2000
9. Establishment of PIU (computers,     G            4               200        NS               NA                                                           05/01/99
software, office equipment,
vehicles)
vehicles)~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                             _ _  _ _ _ ___  ____     _     ___ _ _ _ _   _ __ _ _ _ _ _           _ _ _ _ _
10. Procurement/implementation          C            1              1000      QCBS           SL: 1/21/98        12/31/98         01/31/99;       05/10/99   12/31/2001
assistance                                       (2 phases)                                                                      03/01/99;
______________________________ _   .___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ _   _ ___ _ _  04 /15/99
14     Code: S&I for Supply and Install; G for goods; C for Consultants; RC for Recurrent Costs on the basis of administrative procedures based on acceptable
schedule and budget, and national shopping for contracts below $50,000, up to an aggregate limit not to exceed $200,000.
15      ICB (International Competitive Bidding); IS (International Shopping); QCBS (Quality and Cost Based Selection of Consultant Firms); QBS (Quality Based
Selection of Consultant Firms); LC (Least Cost Selection of Consultant Firms); CQ (Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications); SS (Single Source
Selection of Consultants); Other for incremental operating costs of PIU, based on annual budget agreed with IDA.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                                              49
1                     2           3            4             5                                    6 Estimated dates
Description                        Type      No. of       Estimated    Procure-       Pre-quaVSL-       (BD/RFP)    Bid                  Contract   Contract
slices/items  Cost        ment          1. Invitation      1.            1.Invitation      signing    completion
/            (US$ '000)  Method 17    GPN/SPN/Local   Preparation    GPN/SPN/
Sub-                                    2. Opening                       Local
packages                                3. Eval & Recom                  2. Opening
3. Eval &
Recom Award
11. Consultants to assist with        C           5               130   Individual!                                                       12/98*
establishment & operation of PIU                                            CQ
12. Set-up PIll management            C           1                70       CQ                                            01/31/99       02/26/99    4/30/99
infornation system
13. Financial Audit of Armenergo &    C           1              200        LC          SL: 1/15/99       02/15/99        03/01/99       07/01/99    12/31/99
YDC.                                                                                                                      05/01/99
__________ _________ _ _06/15/99
14. Management Strengthening of       C           1              200       QBS          SL: 2/01/99       03/1 5/99       03/25/99;      08/15/99   04/30/2000
Armenergo                                                                                                                 05/30/99;
Dispatch Company                                                                                                          08/01/99
15. Operating Costs of PIU           RC           1              400       N/A              NA              NA              NA             NA           NA
Total                                                          21,000
16      Code: S&I for Supply and Install; G for goods; C for Consultants; RC for Recurrent Costs on the basis of administrative procedures based on acceptable
schedule and budget, and national shopping for contracts below $50,000, up to an aggregate lirmit not to exceed $200,000.
17     ICB (International Competitive Bidding); IS (International Shopping); QCBS (Quality and Cost Based Selection of Consultant Firms); QBS (Quality Based
Selection of Consultant Finns); LC (Least Cost Selection of Consultant Firms); CQ (Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications); SS (Single Source
Selection of Consultants); Other for incremental operating costs of PIU, based on annual budget agreed with IDA.
Contracts begun under PPF financing.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Proiect                             50
Disbursement
Table D shows the allocation of credit proceeds by category and the disbursement percentages
proposed in each category. The closing date would be June 30, 2002.
Special Account
In order to facilitate Credit disbursements, GoA will establish a Special Account in a major
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to cover IDA's share of
expenditures. The Authorized Allocation for the Special Account would be US$1.0- million.
During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the Special Account would be
limited to US$0.5 million; however, when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit have
reached 3 million SDR, the initial allocation may be increased up to the Authorized Allocation of
US$1.0 million by submnitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly, or whenever one-third of the
amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.
Documentation
Disbursements from the loan for the following types of contracts require full documentation: (i)
goods contracts valued at $200,000 or more; (ii) consulting contracts with firms valued at
$100,000 or more; (iii) consulting contracts with individuals valued at $50,000 or more. The
Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000
equivalent; (ii) services provided by consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent; (iii) services provided by individual consultants under contracts not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent; and (iv) training and operating costs of the PIU, under such terms as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. The minimum size of applications for direct
withdrawals from the Credit and for issuance of Special Commintments will be 20% of the current
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Table D: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
ExPenditure Cateory           Amount in US        ina       Pc
million eauivalent
1. Goods, Equipment and              15.0        100% of foreign expenditures.
Vehicles                                         100% of local expenditures (ex-factory).
85% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
2. Consultant Services and            1.6        100% of expenditures
Training
3. Operating costs of PIU            0.4         100% of expenditures
4. Refinancing of PPF                2.0
Unallocated                        2.0
Total                              21.0



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                             51
Annex 7
Armenia Electricity Transmission & Distribution
Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                      626.4                645.9
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        24                    36
First Bank mission (identification)            02/11/1995           02/11/1995
Appraisal mission departure                    09/27/1997           09/27/1997
Negotiations                                   12/08/1997           12/08/1997
Re-negotiations                                  1/20/99            1/20-2/4/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  05/31/1999              n.a.
C. Prepared by: Ministry of Energy
D. Preparation assistance: [PPF, trust funds, cofinanciers, etc.]
*JS$M
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)    2.0 (about $0.2 m disbursed)
PHRD Grant (Japanese)                 0.6
Consultant Trust Funds                0.5
E. Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Salman Zaheer                            Task Team Leader/Energy Economist
Jae So                                    Financial
Gohar Abajyan                             Financial
Surekha Jaddoo                            Operations/implementation
Jann Masterson                            Operations/implementation
Jan Jicha                                 Power Engineering
Josephine Kida                            Project Assistance
Gultekin Yuksel                           Procurement
Marion Leblanc-Wohrer                     Operations
Irina Kichigina                           Legal
Aly Abu-Akeel                             Legal



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                              52
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project
A.    Project Implementation Plan
1.    Organizational structure of PIU
2.    Decree on establishment of PIU and its role in project implementation
3.    Project Implementation Schedule
4.    Detailed Project Procurement Arrangements
B.    Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Financial forecast of consolidated power and heat (and gas for 1998) sectors for 1998-
2001, including stock and amortization schedules of foreign and domestic debt (October
1998). Prepared together with IMF.
2.    Detailed Financial Analysis of Armenergo and Yerevan Distribution Company
(November 1997)
3.    Detailed Project Economic and Financial Analysis (October 1997)
C.    Other
1.    Energy Sector Financial Rehabilitation Plan and Power Privatization Strategy (Government
Decree 551, Dec. 2, 1997 and Decree 555, September 7, 1998)
2.    Investment Feasibility Study (August 1997)
3.    Consultant report on restatement, in accordance with IAS, of financial statements of
Armenergo (Transmission and dispatch) and 12 regional distribution companies (August
1997)
4.    Institutional analysis of the distribution companies (August 1997)
5.    Management and Organizational Review and Recommendations for Armenergo
(Consultant Draft Report dated August 1997)
6.    Consultant Report: Environmental Audit and Mitigation Plan for Power Sector (July
1998)
7.    Power Sector Least Cost Investment Plan (Lahmeyer Study updated in November 1996)
*Including electronic files.



r-rojec* A.ppraisas i.,Iocument
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distriibution Proiect                                                                53
Annex 9:
Status of Bank Group Operations in Armenia
Operations Portfolio
As of 08-Feb-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                   disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IDRD        IDA      Carncellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
AM-PE-51171      1999   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               SAC III                                   0.00        65.00        0.00              50.15         6.39        0.00
AM-PE-57560      1999   GOVERNMENT OF ARMENIA             TITLE REGISTRATION                        0.00         8.00        0.00               8.43         0.00        0.00
AM-PE-35805      1998   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               MUNICIPAL DEVELOP.                        0.00        30.00        0.00              29.39         -.39        0.00
AM-PE-35806      1998   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               AGRIC. REFORM SUPP.                       0.00        14.50        0.00              13.74         3.33        0.00
AM-PE-50140      1998   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               HEALTH                                    0.00        10.00        0.00                9.67        2.37        0.00
AM-PE-51026      1998   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               SATAC II                                  0.00         5.00        0.00               3.82         3.36        0.00
AM-PE-8281       1998   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               EDUCATION                                 0.00        15.00        0.00              13.27         -.24        0.00
AM-PE-8279       1997   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               ENTERPRISE DEVELOP.                       0.00        16.75        0.00              11.92         6.95        0.00
AM-PE-35765      1996   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               HIGHWAY                                   0.00        31.00        0.00              11.98        -3.86        4.98
AM-PE-35768      1996   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               SOCIAL INVEST. FUND                       0.00        12.00        0.00                3.10         .27        0.00
AM-PE-44387      1996   REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               STRUCT. ADJUST. TA                        0.00         3.80        0.00                1.50        1.67        0.00
AM-PE-35757      1995   GOVT. OF ARMENIA                  POWER MAINTENANCE                         0.00        13.70        0.00                 .24         .60        0.00
AM-PE-8277       1995   GOVT OF ARMENIA                   IRRIGATION REHAB.                         0.00        43.00        0.00              19.96        15.09        0.00
Total                                                                                               0.00      267.75         0.00             177.17        35.54        4.98
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   89.24              221.81               311.05
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                  .19                  .19
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  267.75              218.51               486.26
Amount sold                                        0.00                 0,00                0.00
of which repaid               :                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :               177.17                 0.00              177.17
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Dec-98.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia ElectriciLty Transmission and Distribution Proiect                                                                     54
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Armenia at a glance
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central     Low-
Armenia       Asia  Income       Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                         3.8       476     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atas method, USS)                      530      2320        350
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                        2.0     1.10B       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                          0.8       0.2       2.1   j                                   Grs
Labor force (%)                                         0.8       0.5       2.3     GNP                               Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                               capita             .          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                 69         67        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        73         69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                14         25        78
Child malnutrhion (%0 of children under 5)               ..                  61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   ..        ..        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     ..        ..        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   85         92        91                  Armenia
Male                                                   ..         .       100   ,         --  Low-income group
Female                                                 ..        ..       81   !
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios
GOP (US5 billions)                             ..       2.5       1.6       1.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   ..    32.7        7.7      10.7                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP               ..       ..      23.1      20.3
Gross domestic savings/GOP                      ..    36.9      -25.1     -27.9
Gross national savingslGDP                      ..       ..      -7.9       -8.8
Current account balance/GDP                     ..       ..    -26.8    -29.0        Domestic                     ns
Interest payments/GDP                          ..        ..       1.3       1.5     Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..       ..      38.6      49.8
Total debt service/exports                                       17.7       11.9
Present value of debtlGDP                                        24.4
Present value of debtlexports                  ..        ..      91.7
Indebtedness
19764t6  1987-97     1996       1997   199S-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  5.8    -14.5       5.8       3.1       5.9                  AArmenia
GNP per capita                       4.1    -12.9       8.0       5.4       5.7                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..    -4.2       14.6       1.2       7.8    _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        r so
Agriculture                                     ..    19.8       44.6      44.7
Industry                                       ..    55.4        35.6      35.7
Manufactunng                                  ..       ..       25.2      25.4
Services                                        ..    24.8       19.8      19.6      so
Private consumption                             ..    45.7      113.1     114.9    -100
General govemment consumption                   ..    17.4       12.1      13.0                     G01    -w  GOP
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..      55.9      58.9
19764t6  1987-97     1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growvth)                                                            7
Agriculture                                   0.8      -5.2       1.0       2.7       . 
Industry                                      5.5    -21.4        1.2       3.0     s.
Manufacturing                                5.6    -14.3        1.4       3.3    25
Services                                      7.6    -15.3        8.3      20.8
Private consumption                            4.2    -13.1       6.5       0.3
General govemment consumption                 3.5      -2.2      14.1       6.2     s- 
Gross domestic investrnent                     7.3    -16.2     -17.4      469    -7s
Imports of goods and services                   ..    -4.4        8.1       2.6             -Exports          r.mports
Gross national product                        5.8    -12.0        8.4       5.6
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                                                                           55
Armenia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1976     1986       1990      1997       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                            95.000T
Consumer prices                                   .,       ..       18.6      14.0    4.000
Implicit GDP deflator                            0.6      1.1       19.5      17.3    3.000
zoso
Government ffnance                                                                   ios 00
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                       o
Current revenue                                   ..        .       16.2      17.8    I          92   93   94   95   93   97
Current budget balance                            ..        .        3.5       3.0    I                GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..       ..      -10.1      -8.0
TRADE
(USS millions)                                 1976     1966       1998      1997       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                 290       234
Gold, jewelry, and other precious stones                           126       102   100
Mineral products and metals                                         55        47     4,000
Manufactures                                     ..      ..         45        36     3.009
Total imports (cif)                                .        .       758       793      200
Food                                                               259      270
Fuel and energy                                                    220       226     '.o
Capital goods                                                       32        34        o .
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..                105        93            9t  92   93   9    99   96   97
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..       104       109                  aExports        I0ports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..       ..       102        86    .                            _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mr/lions)                                 1976     1986       1996      1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                 388                             330       Orw
Imports of goods and services                                       -2 ..  892  959         91
Resource balance                                                    54        62         _,
Net income22                                                                   9
Net current transfers                             .         ..       74        61    -207
Current account balance                           ..       ..      -428       -472
Financng items (net)                              ..       ..       438       528   1
Changes in net reserves                           ..       ..       -10        -56   1 0
Memo;
Reserves including gold (US$nmillions)            ..       ..       168       247
Conversion rate (DEC, localWS)                    ..  1.62E-2      414.0    491.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition ot total debt, 1996 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..       ..       616       810
l3RD                                                     -         10        12                  G.s6  A: 10
IDA                                             ..       ..       174       240
Total debt service                                ,,        ,        75        55                     _: 174
l8RD                                           ..         . 
JDA                                             .                              I  I
Composition of net resource flows                          E                                200
Official grants                        ,        .        ..       179       154
Official creditors                              .        ..       173       165
Private creditors                              ..        ..         1         2
Foreign direct investment                       ..       ..        18        51                                     117
Portfolio equity                               ..         ..        1         2                   D4
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                    ..        ..        64       107      A - IBRD                       E - Bflaterat
Disbursements                                  ..        ..        92        77      a - IDA   D - Other multlaterai    F - Proale
Principal repayments                           ..        ..         0         0      C - IMF                       G - Shortterm
Net flows                                       ..       ..        92        77
Interest payments                              ..        ..         1         2
Net transfers                                   ..       ..        91        76
Development Economics                                                                                                     9/29/98



Project Appraisal Document
Arnenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                                56
Annex 11
Power Sector Restructuring and Development Program (December 1998)
Policy Framework and Investment Program
A. Power Sector Objectives and Background
1.    Over the next five years, the Government aims to deepen the power sector reforns
already underway by building on the interrelated achievements of greatly improved supply
reliability, improvements in payment discipline, and the completed unbundling of Armenergo
into separate power generation, transmission and distribution enterprises. Specific objectives to
be achieved by end 2003 include:
(a)   to place all power sector enterprises on an efficient, commercial footing;
(b)   to ensure that the country's electricity requirements are met in a reliable, secure and cost-
effective manner;
(c)   to attract private capital at reasonable terms to meet the bulk of the investment needs of
the sector;
(d)   to eliminate quasi-fiscal subsidies provided in the form of non-payments for electricity,
theft and other non-technical losses of electricity, and below full cost tariffs. These
subsidies were estimated at 4% of GDP for 1998; and
(e)   to privatize  all electricity distribution, thermal generation, and non-regulating
hydropower companies, with preference being given to strategic private investors.
2.    Considerable progress has already been made in the sector. Since the energy crisis in
Armenia from 1993 to 1995, when electricity was supplied for 24 hours per day and its poor
quality (46-48 Hz) caused serious damage to electrical equipment, sector authorities have:
*     Restored reliable electricity supply - 24 hours per day at a frequency of 50 Hz;
*     Improved collections from <40% of supply to 65-70% of supply and 80% of billings;
*     Increased average electricity tariffs from 1.4 USc/kWh in end-1994 to 4.6 USc/kWh
(January 1999);
*     Adopted an Energy Law (June 1997), which separates generation, transmission, dispatch
and distribution into separate companies, establishes an independent Energy Commission
responsible for issuing licenses, establishing market rules and setting regulated tariffs,
and separates the state's policy-making and ownership functions;
*     Unbundled Armenergo, the vertically-integrated  power company, into  separate
generation, transmission, dispatch and distribution companies; and
*      Consolidated electricity distribution companies in preparation for strategic investor
privatization (from >60 in 1996 to 11 in 1997 to 4 in 1998).
3.     The challenge over the next few years will be to:
*      attract private investment and know-how at reasonable terms to meet the capital
requirements of the sector and strengthen management capacity; and
*     to enforce payment discipline, particularly from public utilities (drinking and irrigation
water supply, transport, etc.), budgetary organizations, and large state-owned enterprises.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricit& Transmission and Distribution Project                                57
4.    While these tasks will be aided by the Government's success at sustaining economic
growth (including by attracting direct foreign investment) and by its efforts to restructure other
parts of the economy, the Government's strategy over the next 3 to 5 years consists of:
*     Further strengthening the regulatory framework, including accounting, reporting and
audits requirements, and the adoption of power market rules to ensure least-cost dispatch
and to create a competitive market for electricity;
*     Further strengthening the capacity of the Energy Commission and adjusting electricity
tariffs to reflect the full cost of supply for each consumer category;
*     Advancing the financial rehabilitation of sector enterprises as per the Government's plan
outlined in decrees 551 and 555;
*      Strengthening the technical condition and management capacity of electricity
transmission and dispatch enterprises (and possibly of hydro power plants used for
system regulation), and providing pre-privatization assistance to distribution and
generation enterprises;
*     Completing the commercialization of the sector in parallel with the restructuring and
privatization of industrial, commercial, budgetary and other state-owned enterprises
which are major debtors to the energy sector;
*      Attracting a strategic private owner for the Yerevan Distribution Company in 1999-00;
*      Completing the privatization of remaining electricity distribution and thermal power
generation companies in 2000-01;
*      Addressing the social implications of employment reduction, assisting service enterprises
to become competitive, and assisting enterprises with environmental remediation;
*      strengthening targeting mechanisms and budgetary provisions to mitigate the impact of
commercialization and privatization on the most vulnerable segments of society.
B. The Reform Program
5.    The following elements of the Government's reform program have been agreed to under
SAC-3 and reflected in the Government's letter to IDA dated November 21, 1998.
6.    Reeulatory Framework and Tariff Policy. In accordance with the Energy Law (of
1997), international accounting standards and independent audits will be required for sector
enterprises beginning from 1999. Furthermore, the Energy Regulatory Commission will issue
rules for power market participants and will have issued licenses to all sector enterprises, in
accordance with the Energy Law, by July 1999.
7.    With the objective of reaching full cost recovery levels by July 1999, as required under
the Energy Law, the Energy Regulatory Commission has announced a 12.5% adjustment in the
average electricity tariff, effective January 1, 1999, and a timetable for bi-annual tariff reviews.
The tariff reviews will allow for the identification of further cost-reduction measures and/or tariff
adjustments to ensure financial sustainability of the sector.
8.    Financial Stren2thening. A Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) for the power sector
was adopted by the Government in December 1997 (Decree 551). This Plan was updated in July
1998 and adopted by the Government as Decree No. 555. Key elements of the FRP, agreed under
SAC-3, are attached (Attachment 2). In November 1998, in accordance with the FRP, the
Ministry of Finance and Economy and the Ministry of Energy jointly adopted resolutions to: (i)
specify mechanisms to mitigate arrears build-up from chronic defaulters, including cut-off policy
and budget allocations; and (ii) define a restructuring schedule for the power, gas and heat
sector's domestic debt (and payables) accumulated as of November 1, 1998. The Government
also required electricity generation, transmission, dispatch, and distribution enterprises to use at



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project
least 10 international accounting standards by January 1, 1999, and required them to submit their
accounts to the ERC and relevant ministries on a quarterly basis.
9.    The Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Energy and the ERC will jointly
complete a review of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan with the understanding that measures
required for a timely implementation of the Plan will be taken including: (i) tariff adjustment,
collection of arrears, and other measures defined in Decree 555; and (ii) implementation of the
Debt Restructuring Plan (in accordance with restructuring arrangements, to be concluded by
March 31, 1999, for the consolidated energy sector payables to domestic creditors). The
Government and the ERC will also appoint internationally-qualified auditors to audit the 1998
and 1999 financial statements of Armenergo (transmission and dispatch), Yerevan Distribution
Company, and at least one more electricity distribution company. By the end of 1999, the power
sector enterprises will have revalued their assets in accordance with Government policy to link
revaluation either to asset value determined by competitive privatization, or based on a 3-year
investment program and debt-service requirements for state-owned enterprises.
10.   As part of its efforts to ensure satisfactory implementation of the FRP, the Government
has allocated in the 1999 budget sufficient financing for energy consumers in the public sector
and will take the necessary steps to: (i) increase overall collections (average for 1999) to at least
87% of billings; (ii) maintain billings at least at 84% of supply; (iii) increase collections from
commercial customers (i.e. excluding households, budget organizations, and drinking water and
irrigation) to average at least 94% of billings for 1999; and (iv) avoid arrears to energy suppliers
arising from budget organizations and from public sector consumers within the amounts allocated
in the 1999 budget. To monitor payment discipline, the Government will put in place in early
1999 a quarterly reporting system on public sector consumption limits, actual consumption, actual
payments and outstanding payables.
11.   Energy Sector Privatization. The Government adopted in December 1997 a broad
privatization strategy which defined the companies and assets to be privatized, as well as the sale
methodology, and incorporated an important role for strategic investor privatization by
international tenders in order to maximize investment prospects, as well as the transfer of
technology and expertise (Decree 551). To implement this strategy, the Government has
contracted international financial advisors to represent its interests. Privatization of power sector
enterprises will begin in 1999, and is expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2000.
12.   In 1998, the Government adopted a Privatization Action Plan for electricity distribution
companies to be implemented in 1999. The plan provides that, at a minimum, the Yerevan
Distribution Company will be offered for privatization before end June 1999, with a majority of
shares offered to strategic investors. The offering memorandum for the Yerevan Distribution
Company will be made available to potential strategic investors at that time and bid evaluation
completed and negotiations started before the end of 1999. Other distribution companies would
be offered for privatization in the second half of 1999
C. The Power Sector Investment Program
13.   It is estimated that about US$1.7 billion of investments are needed over the next 15 years
in the power sector (Least Cost Power Investment Study, November 1996, available in Project
Files), the bulk of this amount in generation. These investments would compensate for asset
depletion since the collapse of the Soviet Union and to rehabilitate, replace and upgrade assets
which are well beyond their economic life. Of this amount, about US$50 million/year is needed
over the next 5 years (mainly for rehabilitation) and US$150 million/year after that (mainly for
replacement). The investment program is summarized as Attachment 1.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia ElectriciLt Transmission and Distribution Project                             59
14.   The Goverment's strategy is to attract private investment to meet the bulk of the sector's
capital requirernents and to establish market rules under which private investors and operators
will assume a increasing share of market risks. Distribution, thernal generation and hydro
generation plants are to be privatized in the 1999-2003 period with a preference given to strategic
investors. Transmission and dispatch companies are expected to remain majority state-owned;
however, if market conditions permit, private capital will also be sought to meet the investment
requirements in these companies.
15.   The Least-cost Investment Plan notwithstanding, feasibility studies for the transmission
and distribution (T&D) project done in 1997 show that the rehabilitation and replacement
requirements in T&D are closer to $300400 million (substantially higher than the $57 million
indicated by the Lahmeyer study done in 1994 and updated in 1996). A large part of these
investments will have to be undertaken over the next 3-5 years to facilitate the transition to a
commercial and competitive power market, ensure reliable supply, and enable regional trade in
electricity. These cost estimates will be updated annually and taken into account by the Energy
Commission when it sets tariffs and incorporated into the Government's Public Investment
Program for which financing will be sought from international financing institutions and bilateral
donors.
16.   In line with the Government's strategy, rehabilitation of transmission, dispatch and
distribution facilities over the next 3-5 years are to started under the public investment program
while efforts are made to attract strategic investors into the distribution sub-sector. The following
public investment activities and sources of financing are envisaged:
System metering (1999-2000): To support the commercial structure of the sector and permit
internal control (with about $7 to 11 million fumding from USAID). Current transformers needed
for effective operation of the meters would be included;
End-User metering:
Japan's OECF (2000-2002): Residential and conmmercial meters. These are to be introduced
mainly in Yerevan, but also in the other three distribution companies, while the companies are
being privatized and to demonstrate improvements in commercial performance..
Rehabilitation of transmission sub-stations:
IDA-Phase 1 (2000-2001):
(i)    Circuit breakers for Ekhegnadzor, Zovuni, and Marash;
(ii)   Rehabilitation of the 10-kV part of the Shaumian-2.
KfW (1999-2000): Rehabilitation of sub-stations at Kamo and Vanadzor-2;
Japan's OECF (2000-2002):
(i)    Replacement of disconnectors at Ekhegnadzor, Shaumian-2 and Shinuhair;
(ii)   Replacement of the 35 kV circuit breakers at the Vardashen sub-station;
(iii)   Reconstruction/modernization of air compressor systems at Shaumian-2 and Vanadzor-2;
(iv)   Reconstruction and modernization of the low voltage part of the Shengavit sub-station;
(v)   Improvement of fire safety at the sub-stations;
(vi)   Miscellaneous control cables, maintenance equipment, etc.
IBRD-Phase 2 (2000-2002): Transformers for Ekhegnadzor, Zovuni, and Marash



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                             60
Dispatch and Communications
Japan's OECF (2000-2003):
(i)   Installation of fiber-optic cable to establish the priority communication backbone
(regulating power plants and the national dispatch center);
(ii)   Energy management systems (EMS) - computers, software and linkage to meters - at
selected locations.
IDA-Phase 1 (1999-2000): Computers and software to strengthen financial management.
Rehabilitation of distribution systems
IDA-Phase 1 (2000-2002): Replacement of circuit breakers and medium and low voltage cables
in Yerevan;
Japan's OECF (2000-2003): Circuit breakers in Yerevan and replacement of circuit breakers,
transformers, other sub-station equipment, and cables in Kotaik, Armavir, Ararat, Vayotsdzor,
and Siunik sub-regions;
USAID (1999-2000): Limited repairs of low voltage equipment in other three distribution
companies and commercialization pilot projects;
IBRD-Phase 2 (2000-2003): Continued rehabilitation in the event adequate private investment not
mobilized and if reliability of electricity supply is jeopardized.
Other Support: lBRD-Phase II would include the provision of up to US$15 million of working
capital to support continued implementation of the Government's Financial Rehabilitation Plan
after improvements in system metering and accounting are reasonably advanced (to ensure
recovery of this working capital). Financing may also be considered for rehabilitation of selected
hydropower plants used for frequency control, spinning reserve, and power system regulation
services (to ensure safe and high quality supply), retrenchment costs for personnel as a result of
downsizing sector enterprises, and clean-up of oil-spills and other wastes (to facilitate asset
privatization).
17.   The power sector investment program will be reviewed annually and taken into account
when preparing the Government's public investment plans.
Attachment 1:   Power Sector Investment Plan Summary (November 1996)



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission and Distribution Project                                                  61
Attachment 1
Power Sector Investment Plan - Capital requirements
(in current million US$)
Plan assumes that Medzamor nuclear plant is shut-down in end-2004 and no new nuclear power plant is built.
Facility           Cap |                                         Year                                          lcomments
MW   1997 1998  1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sum  I
Yerevan TPP
Yerevan I - 1      50                                                                                          0   Min. maintenance, run till major breakdown
Yerevan 1-2        50                                                                                          0   Min. maintenance, run till major breakdown
Yerevan 1-3        50                                                                                          0       Back pressure unit, rehabilitated in 1990
Yerevan 1-4        50      2.0                                                                                 2            Scrapped after 40 years of service
Yerevan 1-5        50      2.0                                                                                 2            Scrapped after 40 years of service
Yerevan 2-6        150                                                                                         0   Min. maintenance, run till major breakdown
Yerevan 2-7        150                                                                                         0   Min. maintenance, run till major breakdown
Comb. Cycle (CHP)  167                      13.2  81.4  27.9  14.4                                           137                    At location Yerevan 2-6
Comb. Cycle (CHP)  167                                  14.0  86.3  29.6  15.3                               145                    At location Yerevan 2-7
Sub-total                    4    0    01  13   81   42   101   30   15    0    0    0    0    0  286
Hrazdan TPP
Hrazdan 1-1        50                                                                                          0   Min. maintenance, run till major breakdown
Hrazdan 1-2        50                                                                                          0   Min. maintenance, run till major breakdown
Hrazdan 1-3        100    2.1  2.1  2.2                                                                        6  Overhaul, then scrap after 40 years of service
Hrazdan 1-4        100     2.1  2.1  2.2                                                                       6  Overhaul, then scrap after 40 years of service
Hrazdan 2-1        200           1.3                                                                           I
Hrazdan 2-2        200     0.2  Mothballedl     I       1.4       1 l    l    l          1    1 |    |         2|   Mothballed until needed by the system|
Hrazdan 2-3        200     2.5      l    l    l    l             l    l    l    l    I    I    |    |   21               Recommissioned after major overhaul!
Hrazdan 2-4        210     0.2  Mothballedl      |       1.4                                               1 l    l l I    I  | |    2!  Mothballed until needed by the systemi
Hrazdan 2-5        300    36.1  37.1                                                                         73                    Newly commissioned unit
Comb. Cycle (CHP)  167                                                         15.7  97.2  33.4  17.2        163
Sub-total                   43   43    4    0    0    3    0    0    0   16   97   33   17    0  256                                                     1
Vanadzor TPP
Vanadzor 1-1       12      1.9                                                                                 2          New heat exchanger to cater for new
Vanadzor 1-2       12            1.9                                                                           2             district heating area in Vanadzor
Sub-total                    2    2    0    0       0_ 0    0    0     l   0    0    0    0    0    0    41
Nuclear Plant                                                                                                   l                                        l
Medzamor 2         440    36.1  37.1  38.2                                     _          _                  111              Safety upgrade from 1996-19981



Proje t Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricitv Transmission_and Distribution Ptoect                                                      62
-----------ilityYear                                                                                Cmments
MW   1997  1998  1999 2000 2001  2002 2003  2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010  Sumn
Rehabilitated Hydro                1
Sevan-Hraz. Cascadc 527     2.7  2.1  2.1   9.2  14.4  0.0  0.1   1.6  2.1                                      34    All hydro's will be rehabilitated
Vorotan Cascade    400      I .I  0.()  0.3   6.0  0.1   3.0   0.4  4.9                                          l 6               - urgent measures 1996-1998
Dzorages           24             2.5   0.0   0.2   1.3                                                          4      - lifetime extension measures 1998-2005
Small Hlydro       36       1.0  1.1  1.1   1.1                                                                  4               - lifetime extended by 30 years
Sub-total                     5     6    3    17    16    3       0     7    2     0     0      0     O     0   59
New Hlydro
Small < 4.5 c/kWh   35                                                                                           0
Small < 5.5 c/kWh   36                                                                                           0
Shnokh             75                              15.3  23.6  40.6  50.2  34.4                                164
Megri              84                                                20.1  31.2  53.5  66.0  45.3              216
Gekhi              5                                                                    4.0   9.7               14
Sub-total                    0o     0    0o     0   15    24   41    70   66   53    70   55    0o          0  394
Geothermal
Sub-total                     0    0      0     0    5   13   33   47   86  128    77   64    60            0  512
Wind Converter    15                                      0.1   0.6  1.1  2.3   3.7  4.6i  5.5 __18                           Gradual implementation 2005-2010
DSM Measures
Sub-total          I        1.0'  1.0  1.0  1.1   2.2  2.2   2.3  2.4   2.4   3.9   4.0  4.1   4.3   4.4  36.3 _
HV-Interconnection
Iran-Armenia       200                                                         |                                                       Commissioning late 1996
Transm/Distribution         5.0   5.2  5.41   5.5  5.71  9.7  10.0 10.31                                        57
Engineering Studies |       6.0  11.4  3.31  0.6  0.61  0.6  0.1                                                22|
Summary                                            
Thermal andNuclear         85.1  81.7  42.6  13.2  81.4  44.8 100.7  29.6  15.3  15.7  97.21 33.4  17.2  0.0 657.8
Hydro                       4.8   5.7  3.5  16.5  31.1  26.6  41.1  76.9  67.7  53.5  70.0  55.0   0.0   0.0 452.6
OtherRenewables             0.0  0.0|  0.0   0.0  4.8  12.6  33.2  48.3  88.0 131.9  81.6  69.3  60.2  0.o 529.8
Demand Side Measures    |  1.0  1.0|  1.01  1.1  2.21  2.2   2.3  2.41  2.4  3.91   4.0   4.1  4.31   4.4 36.31
Transm/Distribution         5.0   5.2  5.4  5.5   5.7  9.71 10.0  10.3  0.0 I 0.0   0.01  0.0   0.0   0.0  56.7
Engineering                 6.0  11.4  3.3   0.6  0.6  0.6   0.1            0.0  0.0   0.01  0.0   0.0   0.0  22.5
Grand Total                 1021 105   56   371  126   961 1871 167   1731 2051  253  162   82             4 1756  ___



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                63
Attachment 2
Financial Rehabilitation Plan for the Energy Sector for the Period up to the Year 2001
(as agreed under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit, December 1998)
1.    Following the measures undertaken through Government Decree #551 "Measures for
Financial Rehabilitation of the Energy Sector" (December 2, 1997), the Government issued a new
Decree 555, dated September 7, 1998, to further improve the financial condition of the sector,
prepare the sector for privatization, and privatize key enterprises in accordance with the
privatization strategy adopted under Decree 551 which seeks to attract strategic investors. Key
elements of Decree 555 and subsequent modifications and agreements reached with IDA during
negotiations of the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-Ill) are summarized below.
A. Cash Flow
2.    Cash Flow Projections for the period 1998-2001.  During SAC-HI negotiations,
quarterly targets were established (for 1999) for power generation mix, fuel and operating and
maintenance costs, technical and non-technical losses, billings and collections from main
consumer groups, and anticipated deficits which would be covered from proceeds from the
transfer of 55% of shares of Armgas to ArmRusgazprom (the joint venture with Russian Gazprom
and ITERA). Furthermore, the Government agreed to provide IDA with an agreement signed
between ArmRusgazprom and the Government showing the amount of gas which could be
provided quarterly to cover the financial deficit in the power and heat sectors, and the terms under
which this gas would be provided. Targets and the 1998-2001 projections are included in the
minutes of negotiations.
3.    Tariffs. With the objective of reaching full cost recovery levels by July 1999, as
required under the Energy Law, the Energy Regulatory Commission has announced a 12.5%
adjustment in the average electricity tariff, effective January 1, 1999, and a timetable for bi-
annual tariff reviews, with the next review to be completed by July 1, 1999. The tariff reviews
will allow for the identification of further cost-reduction measures and/or tariff adjustments to
ensure financial sustainability of the sector. By June 30, 1999, the Energy Commission will also
announce separate tariffs for gas transmission and distribution, and the methodology for setting
heat production and distribution tariffs for centralized supply systems. During SAC-III
negotiations, it was agreed that performance against the targets and projections discussed above
(para. 2) would be taken into account, together with other cost-cutting, revenue-enhancing
measures and implementation of the Debt Restructuring Plan, when assessing the need for
further tariff adjustments during 1999.
4.    By March 31, 1999, the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MoFE) and the Ministry of
Energy (MoE) will have assessed and set maximum ceilings for electricity and heat losses for
each power sector enterprise, norms of own consumption within power plants, and norms for fuel
consumption for the production of electricity and thermal energy (for the 1999-2000 period).
5.    By March 31, 1999, the MoFE will establish procedures for treating eligible energy
losses when computing taxable profit.
6.    By March 31, 1999 the MoFE and MoE will approve business plans for the development
and financial rehabilitation of each enterprise in the energy sector and incorporate them into the
1998-2001 financial projections.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                64
7.    By May 31, 1999, the Government will approve an updated least-cost investment plan for
power sector development, taking into account the objectives of economic security, safe
operation, higher efficiency, and regional cooperation.
8.    Asset revaluation. By December 31, 1999, the power sector enterprises will have
revalued their assets in accordance with Government policy whereby assets of privatized
enterprises will be assigned a value determined in the course of their privatization, and assets of
state-owned enterprises will be valued in a manner to provide sufficient cash flow from
depreciation and after-tax profits projected over three years to cover at least an average of 15% of
the 3-year investment program (as approved by the Energy Comrnmission) and also to contribute to
its debt-amortization schedule (as part of the Government's debt restructuring plan).
B. Financial recovery of chronic defaulters to the energy sector
9.    By December 1, 1998, the budget will have cleared all budgetary arrears to the energy
sector for energy (gas, electricity and heat) supplied to budget organizations and enterprises under
Government guarantee (eg. drinking water, irrigation, etc.). Furthennore, the 1999 budget will
make sufficient provision for energy needs of budgetary organizations, other budget-guaranteed
consumers, and for targeted support to poor households. During negotiations the Government
agreed to remain current on budgetary or budget-guaranteed payments to energy supply
enterprises.
10.   By January 31, 1999, the MoFE and MoE will have ensured that public sector consumers
have signed suitable contracts with their electricity suppliers which include: (i) payment terns
(amounts of the monthly energy bill to be paid by the enterprise and by the budget), (ii) the
supply quantity limits (after which the enterprise must be disconnected if it or the budget does not
pay); and (iii) the powers and obligations of the supplier and consumer.
11.   By March 31, 1999, the Government would have completed an audit of the 1996-98
performance of Nairit Chemical Company, including its energy consumption and
payables/receivables, and have approved a business/financial recovery plan for 1999-2001 period,
or have approved other measures for the future of the enterprise.
12.   By March 31, 1999 (June 30, 1999for heating enterprises), the Government would have
reviewed and approved a program of economic reforms and financial restructuring of irrigation,
drinking water, and heating enterprises covering the 1999-2001 period. The program would
establish monthly energy consumption targets which would be paid by the budget (during the
financial recovery period) with the remainder of consumption to be paid by the enterprise.
C. Accounting and Audits
13.   By December 31, 1998, the Government will have issued regulations requiring power
sector enterprises to maintain and report their 1999 accounts employing at least 10 international
accounting standards (agreed separately), in addition to other prevailing standards.
14.   By March 31, 1999, the Government will appoint an auditing committee/auditor for each
sector enterprise. During SAC-III negotiations, agreement was reached for the Government to
appoint, by March 31, 1999, an internationally reputable firm to audit the 1998 and 1999 financial
statements of Armenergo (transmission and dispatch), Yerevan Distribution Company, and at
least one other electricity distribution company in accordance with terns of reference agreed with
IDA. The audit of the 1998 financial statements will be completed by June 30, 1999 and the audit
of the 1999 financial statements by June 30, 2000.



Project Appraisal Document
Armenia Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project                                65
D. Debt Restructuring
15. By December 1, 1998, the MoFE and MoE will have completed an inventory of the energy
sector's debt as of October 1, 1998, including an identification of the main creditors (those owed
in excess of Dram 100 million), and the prevailing interest and repayment schedule (as
applicable). By March 31, 1999, the MOFE, MOE and sector enterprises will approve a schedule
for restructuring of these debts -- e.g. they will make commitments to provide IDA with formal
agreements with creditors on debt restructuring for 25% of the debt by March 31, 1999, for
another 25% by June 30, 1999 and for another 35% by December 31, 1999. By March 31, 1999,
the MoFE and MoE will also introduce efficient mechanisms for collecting receivables of the
energy sector, incorporating the principles of factoring, market oriented operations with financial
institutions, initiation of bankruptcy proceedings, and the involvement of the other state
authorities in cases relating to the most persistent debtors.
E. Governance of energy enterprises
16.   By December 31, 1998, the MoFE and MoE will establish the governance structure and
charter for public enterprises and organizations in the energy sector, Furthermore, by March 31,
1999, Boards of Directors and enterprise management will sign agreements on performance
targets, accountability and incentive structures, investment programs and broader restructuring
objectives (if applicable).
F. Energy Sector Privatization
17.   Based on the Govemment's Power Privatization Strategy adopted in December 1997
(Decree 551), the Government has contracted an intemational financial advisor and agreed on an
schedule to privatize selected power sector enterprises. Under the agreed schedule, the offering
memorandum for the Yerevan Distribution Company will be made available to potential strategic
investors June 30, 1999 and bid evaluation completed and negotiations started with the successful
bidder by December 31, 1999. Other distribution companies would be offered for privatization in
the second half of 1999.
G. Legal Framework
18.   By March 31, 1998, the Energy Commission and relevant Government agencies will
complete a review of the implementation status of the Energy Law (of July 1997), and of the rules
on use of gas, electricity, and thermal energy, and have identified any changes which may be
deemed necessary. During SAC-III negotiations it was agreed that the Government would seek
IDA 's consent before submitting to Parliament any changes to the existing Energy Law.



IBRD 29336
G E O R G I A                                             .   To  T hIi oi 4 . '                             46         4G E  O R G I
To .n.x 9_  g-        :  7 t-.          GORGA    >ARMENIA
-,Arpi, Topo                '                  Aov                    _                                                                        ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND
L    k o Gkcson0 Stponsvb 0     ,, - < 7                        +t                          jtg,,''tDISTRIBUTION  PROJECT
41                                                                                                     u A oosGvulogoroo  ,  . ;                                                                              41
\i                              Ko>IIibfi GYMR   /cpv4J  ORlen   '                                                                            3   VT1nniso  Lines                  220 kV ubstcjtions:
ASIik  "                                    Tsooo0y,kn                                                               -    22                   Linessel
ioot                       Aporon                  F":00               ''                                                              oeSttos                             l   ioa6  
wg                     ~~~~~~Araoqos  Troonkodzoor >,ZA   4lX      ;                                                                     Nuclear                            Nl  Kiravakan 2
K                                                          ZOAN Derir Ta in 0   /   %     t  \  0 i ti t00 ;    t;                             Thermal                             l  Gsinri 2
)s         Vor'gt \ SIRK  ir iTo tin0' \.                                                                                                        - Hydra (Sevan-Razdan Cascade)   El  Zapaodnaja
|| S : .@ q X \ l -L0.i.ig; ,.  Snisokopo                                                                    Atarbekyan                      N Abovian 1 & 2
O     ko                           EVA N GUR   KIROVA                                                                                 ArNVznAiOR,                     U   Shasmlan 1 &2
40'   .< ARtAVI         Doroo            ft z123                             Koroniuok                  f                             ft!         Yerevan                         91  Kamo
.1~ ~ ~~~~G1.
TURKEY  N. ART  AT                                                   -.iuldz ( '\/AEBIA                                   Spandaryan                      U Ararat 2
-    Dams                               \,ygovel%    -;.'...                                                                                   Shamb                           fi  Ekhegnadzor
K                               Selected Towns and Villages    h                                                                      330 k0 Tatev        L                      Shinusair
    Regional (Manz) Capitals                                                                                                                                                   E  I:0 \  %   s  f  1A1  Kapan
*    National Capital           7         . <8'-./ I,NEGEGNADZ=NX                                                       0                                                11P  Hajroan
Rivers                          (           \S; )AIbkv                                      <\                                                                                               f^
Regional (Marz) Boundariesa    /              t.                                                 A                                                                         1\  'i-o.k\n\
---   Internation<al Boundaries  k                \                                  / N i~....t kooT                                                                          Gm  2
tAreas served by Regional       '                    9N                                       N    3;?' Gii4,>          onis 
Distribution Companies.         pW                                                                 tKoye          5inooy r''
T.                                                       AZ'ERB J                   N.                     r'      - 
*C4 ISLAMIC                  N_                                                                   H S                      C r J
A                      AnbHTA.            REPUBLI C                                                                                            Sevn    M LES 0     10       20      30       40
OFlsmopdddrr>GpIe  IRAN .d /r  >                                                      ffA '             KIOMETERSk 0   10   2    30   40        50   60   70
o'n'pd' '"'ni,  ""3 1                                                                                      4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M,Gyus                        l   ervnIovn
l~~~~~~~~'',                                    N.4G                               4 5                                           446|                                          4 7                                           4 8
GIK o naker                                    M  r       J   U    1998
Yerevan ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~JNUR 1 Kamo



