Page  1
CONFORMED COPY    
CREDIT NUMBER 3175 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3175 AM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS  (A) the Association has received a letter dated February 4, 1999, from 
the Borrower describing its Power Sector Restructuring and Development Program 
(hereinafter the Program) designed to reform and develop the Borrower’s power sector 
and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested support from the Association and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for the execution of 
the Program through a series of credits and loans to assist in implementing such 
Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project; 
(D)
the Project, except Part D.1 thereof, will be carried out by Armenergo, 
HVENC and YDC (as hereinafter defined), with the Borrower ’s assistance, and as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to said companies part of the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
(E)
the Borrower intends to obtain a grant (USAID Grant) from the United 
States Agency for International Development (USAID) in an amount equivalent to fifteen 
million Dollars ($15,000,000) to assist in financing the Project, on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and  
Page  2
USAID (the USAID Grant Agreement); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the YDC Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and YDC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to 
the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Charter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Armenergo" means a power dispatch and financial settlement company of 
the Borrower, established under the Government Decree No. 450, dated July 20, 1998, 
and such term shall include any legal successor or successors thereto;
(b)
"Armenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and Armenergo pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Armenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(c)
"Charter of Armenergo" means Armenergo’s Charter, dated January 22, 1998; 
registration No. 27314000069; 
(d)
"Charter of YDC" means YDC’s Charter, dated January 14, 1998; 
(e)
"Energy Regulatory Commission" means a regulatory agency in the 
Borrower’s energy sector established pursuant to the President’s Decree No. 717, dated 
April 3, 1997;
(f)
"Financial Rehabilitation Plan" means the Borrower’s financial 
rehabilitation plan for the energy sector, approved by the Government Decree No. 551, 
dated December 2, 1997 and the Government Decree No. 555 dated September 7, 1998, as 
the same may be amended from time to time upon the agreement between the Borrower and 
the Association;
(g)
"HVENC" means the High Voltage Electric Network Company, a power 
transmission company of the Borrower, established pursuant to the Government Decree 
No. 450 dated July 20, 1998; and such term shall include any legal successor or 
successors thereto; 
Page  3
(h)
"HVENC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and HVENC pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the HVENC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i)
"PIU" means the unit established by the Borrower for purposes of Project 
management and implementation; 
(j)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement; 
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
August 29, 1997 and September 17, 1997 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(m)
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be provided to each of Armenergo, 
HVENC and YDC under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements pursuant to Section 
3.02(a) of this Agreement; 
(n)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means collectively the Armenergo Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, HVENC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and YDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(o)
"YDC" means the Yerevan Distribution Company, a power distribution 
company of the Borrower, established under the Government Decree No. 450 dated July 
20, 1998; and such term shall include any legal successor or successors thereto;
(p)
"YDC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
YDC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the YDC Project Agreement; and
(q)
"YDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and YDC pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the YDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
15,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
Page  4
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on December 15 and June 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each December 15 and June 15 commencing June 15, 2009 and ending December 15, 2033. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2018, shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
Page  5
(i)
shall carry out Part D.1 of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project; and
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause each of Armenergo, 
HVENC and YDC to carry out their respective Parts of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-ing, 
environmental, and technical practices,  and shall take or cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable Armenergo, HVENC and YDC to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Part D.1 of the Project and shall cause Armenergo, HVENC and YDC to 
carry out their respective Parts of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a)  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit, except 
the portion thereof allocated from time to time for Part D.1 of the Project under 
Category (2) of the table shown in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to Armenergo, HVENC 
and YDC under the Armenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement, HVENC Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
and the YDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respectively, which shall all be entered into 
on terms and conditions agreed upon with the Association, including those set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower, acting through PIU, shall (a) establish a Project 
Account in a commercial bank to be exclusively used for financing expenditures 
incurred under the Project in the currency of the Borrower and not financed from the 
proceeds of the Credit; and (b) maintain amounts on deposit in the Project Account at 
all times at a level equivalent to not less than the estimate of such expenditures for 
the following three-month period.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by YDC 
with respect to its respective activities under the Project, pursuant to Section 2.03 
of  the YDC Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project 
and the Program; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Page  6
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, acting through the PIU, shall maintain or cause 
to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; and
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the 
average electricity tariffs shall be sufficient during the fiscal years of 1999, 2000 
and 2001 to at least cover Armenergo’s, HVENC’s and  YDC’s  operation and maintenance 
costs, their debt-service requirements (as such term is defined in paragraph C.1(b)(v) 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement), and accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to 
time in accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation, 
satisfactory to the Association. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
(b)
YDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the YDC 
Project Agreement. 
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that YDC will be able to perform its obligations under the YDC 
Project Agreement. 
(d)
The Charter of YDC shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or 
financial condition of YDC or its ability to carry out the Project or the ability of  
YDC to perform any of its obligations under the YDC Project Agreement. 
(e)
The USAID Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by July 
31, 1999 or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
Page  7
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the USAID Grant shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the USAID Grant Agreement.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, or termination is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the PIU has entered into a contract with a procurement consulting firm 
acceptable to the Association; 
(b)
the PIU has opened the Project Account with an initial deposit therein 
equivalent to $250,000; 
(c)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and Armenergo, HVENC and YDC, respectively; 
(d)
the PIU has established a Project management information system, 
satisfactory to the Association, including Project progress indicators and financial 
accounting, reporting and contract management systems; 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the YDC Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
YDC, and is legally binding upon YDC in accordance with its terms; 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, have been duly authorized or 
ratified by and are legally binding upon the parties thereto. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  8
Ministry of Finance
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Rouben Shugarian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit  
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, equipment
   10,700,000
100% of foreign
and vehicles
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(2)
Consultants’
   1,100,000
100%
services and
training
(3)
Operating costs
     300,000
100%
of the PIU
Page  9
(4)
Refunding of
   1,400,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project 
to Section 2.02 (c)
Preparation
of this Agreement
Advance
(5)
Unallocated
   1,500,000
TOTAL
  15,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "operating costs of the PIU" means the incremental expenses 
incurred by the PIU on account of Project implementation, including office supplies, 
communications, vehicle operation and maintenance, auditing services and travel and 
supervision costs; 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts 
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (ii) services provided by consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) services provided by individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iv) training and 
operating costs of the PIU, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The project is to support the first phase of the Borrower’s Program which aims 
to: (a) place the power sector on an efficient, commercial footing; (b) meet the 
Borrower’s electricity requirements in a reliable and cost-effective manner; (c) 
attract private capital to meet the bulk of the capital requirements in the sector; 
and (d) eliminate quasi-fiscal subsidies provided in the form of non-payments and 
other non-technical losses of electricity, and below cost recovery tariffs.
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve measurement and accountability 
of electricity and revenue flows between generation, transmission and distribution 
companies, and within YDC; (ii) to reduce technical losses in the electricity 
transmission network and YDC, and improve system availability; and (iii) to improve 
the commercial performance and financial condition of Armenergo, HVENC and YDC.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
System Metering and Computers 
Provision of meters, testing equipment and computers and software to support 
commercial transactions and permit internal control of electricity and revenue flows.
Part B:
Transmission System Rehabilitation 
Replacement of 220kV and 110kV circuit breakers and current transformers at 
transmission sub-stations at Ekhegnadzor, Zovuni and Marash and the reconstruction and 
modernization of low voltage switch gear at the Shaumian-2 sub-station.
Part C:
Distribution System Rehabilitation 
Replacement of circuit breakers, transformers, and cables, for rehabilitation of 
part of the electricity distribution networks in Yerevan.
Page  10
Part D:
Technical Services
(1)
Provision of consultant services and training to assist the PIU in: (i) 
procurement and Project implementation; and (ii) financial audit of Armenergo, HVENC 
and YDC. 
(2)
Provision of consultant services to Armenergo to assist in strengthening its 
management capacity.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
Page  11
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-Based Selection
Services for carrying out the activities under Part D.2 of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for carrying out financial audits under Part D.1 of the Project and 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent in aggregate, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for assistance to the PIU under Part D.1 of the Project and estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent in aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Page  12
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain the PIU with representatives from the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Energy, Armenergo, HVENC and YDC whose qualifications and experience shall be 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b)
assign to the PIU the responsibility for Project management and 
implementation, including: (i) preparation of work programs under the Project; (ii) 
coordination of the activities of Armenergo, HVENC and YDC under the Project; (iii) 
preparation of bidding and contract documents and the undertaking of procurement 
procedures under the Project; (iv) maintenance of project records including the 
Special Account and the Project Account, and arranging for the audit thereof; and (v) 
preparation and furnishing to the Association of quarterly reports on the status of 
Project implementation. 
2.
Not later than September 30, 1999, the Borrower shall issue an offering 
memorandum for privatization of a majority of YDC’s shares.
3.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about August 31, 2000 a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Page  13
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for the Special Account 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, with the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
Page  14
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for that Special Account. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Special Account shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date or such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
SCHEDULE 6 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement and except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the principal terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Schedule shall apply to the Sub-loans:
A.
Amounts:
1.
The following are the dollar equivalents of the amounts from the Credit  
proceeds to be onlent by the Borrower to Armenergo, HVENC and YDC under their 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Each such amount may be adjusted upon the 
agreement between the Borrower and Armenergo, HVENC and YDC, respectively:
(a)
Armenergo:
 $1,010,000
(b)
HVENC:  
$8,170,000
(C)
YDC:
 $9,830,000
B.
Terms: 
1.
The Subsidiary Loans shall be denominated and repaid in dollars. 
2.
The Subsidiary Loans shall be repaid in equal semi-annual installments over a 
period of twenty (20) years, including a grace period of five (5) years. 
3.
Interest on each Sub-loan shall be charged on the amounts withdrawn and 
outstanding under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement at an annual rate exceeding 
by one-half of one percent (0.5%) the interest rate equivalent to the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) variable lending rate for currency 
pooled loans prevailing at the time of respective dates of repayment of the Subsidiary 
Loans as adjusted each January 1 to the then prevailing rate. 
4.
Interest accruing on the Subsidiary Loan on or before June 14, 2002 shall be 
capitalized and added to the amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding. 
5.
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include provisions whereby Armenergo, HVENC 
or YDC, as the case may be, shall be required to carry out through the PIU all its 
respective activities under the Project, including, without limitation, preparation of 
bidding and contract documents, approval of contracts, authorization of expenditures, 
maintenance of Project financial records, supervision of work and preparation of 
progress reports on Project implementation. 
C.
Financial Conditions:
Armenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement and HVENC Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall 
each include the following provisions:
1.
(a)
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
Armenergo and HVENC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the 
revenues and expenditures of Armenergo or HVENC, respectively, shows that the 
estimated net revenues of  each said company during the term of the debt to be 
incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of 
Page  15
Armenergo or HVENC, respectively, in each year on all debt of Armenergo or HVENC, 
respectively, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(ii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: (A) the sum 
of revenues from all sources related to operations and net 
non-operating income, and (B)
the sum of all expenses related to 
operations including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other charges on debt.
(iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A) revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and (B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iv)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by each 
Armenergo and HVENC not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to 
the incurrence of the debt in question, which the Association 
together with Armenergo or HVENC, respectively, accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Association has notified Armenergo 
or HVENC, respectively, of its acceptability, provided that no 
event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of 
Armenergo or HVENC.
(v)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
2.
(a)
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
Armenergo and HVENC shall each maintain, starting in January 1, 2000, a ratio of 
current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.3. 
(b)
Before April 1 in each of its fiscal years, Armenergo and HVENC each  
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by Armenergo and HVENC, and satisfactory to 
the Association, review whether they would meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall 
each furnish to the Association the results of such review upon its completion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that Armenergo or HVENC would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for said companies’ fiscal years covered by 
such review, Armenergo or HVENC, respectively, shall promptly take all necessary 
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its 
rates in order to meet such requirements).
(d)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve (12) months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(ii)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing 
be called for payment within twelve (12) months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, 
Page  16
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(iii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
3.
Armenergo and HVENC shall each: (a) take all necessary measures to ensure (i) by 
January 1, 2000 that its accounts receivable accumulated since January 1, 1999 shall 
be maintained at not more than the equivalent of ninety (90) days billing for 
electricity sales, and (ii) by January 1, 2000, that its accounts payable accumulated 
since January 1, 1999 shall be maintained at not more than the equivalent of ninety 
(90) days of expenses; and 
(b)
without limitation to the preceding paragraph (a), take all necessary 
measures to ensure actual collection of not less than 82% of its total billing during 
the year 1999, not less than 90% of its total billing during the year 2000, and not 
less than 95% of its total billing during the year 2001.
4.
(a)
Armenergo and HVENC shall each maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
Armenergo and HVENC shall each:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year beginning with 1998 audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Borrower, as soon as available 
but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of 
each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Borrower such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well 
as the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
