Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3175 AM
Yerevan Distribution Company  
Project Agreement
(Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
Yerevan Distribution Company
Dated March 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3175 AM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1999 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and YEREVAN DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (YDC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Armenia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,000,000) (the Credit) on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that YDC agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and YDC, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to YDC on terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS YDC, in consideration of the Borrower’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Association, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, 
wherever used in this Agreement, reference to the Association, the Credit or the 
Page  2
Credit Account shall also be deemed as reference to the Bank.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) YDC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out its respective activities under Part C of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and YDC shall otherwise agree, YDC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. YDC shall carry out, with respect to its activities under the 
Project,  the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition).
Section 2.04. YDC shall duly perform all its obligations under the YDC 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, YDC shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, 
abrogating or waiving the YDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) YDC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of its activities under the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the YDC Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
YDC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by YDC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the YDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of YDC 
Section 3.01. YDC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. YDC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices. 
Section 3.03. YDC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) YDC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
YDC shall:
Page  3
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year beginning in the year 1998 audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so\0c
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request. 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, YDC shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of YDC 
shows that the estimated net revenues of YDC during the term of the debt to be 
incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of YDC in 
each year starting the fiscal year of 1999, on all debt of YDC including the debt to 
be incurred.   
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(ii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income, and 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A) revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and (B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iv)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by YDC 
not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the incurrence of the 
debt in question, which both the Association and YDC accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Association has notified YDC of its 
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of YDC.
(v)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, YDC shall 
maintain, starting on January 1, 2000, a ratio of current assets to current 
liabilities of no t less than 1.3:1. 
Page  4
(b)
Before April 1 in each of its fiscal years, YDC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by YDC and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the results of such review 
upon its completion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that YDC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for YDC's fiscal years covered by such review, YDC shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, initiating 
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve (12) months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(ii)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing 
be called for payment within twelve (12) months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(iii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04.  YDC shall:  
(a)
take all necessary measures to ensure (i) by January 1, 2000 that its 
accounts receivable accumulated since January 1, 1999 shall be maintained at not more 
than the equivalent of ninety (90) days billing for electricity sales, and (ii) by 
January 1, 2000, that its accounts payable accumulated since January 1, 1999 shall be 
maintained at not more than the equivalent of ninety (90) days of expenses; and  
(b)
without limitation to the preceding paragraph (a), take all necessary 
measures to ensure actual collection of not less than 82% of its total billing during 
the year 1999, not less than 90% of its total billing during the year 2000, and not 
less than 95% of its total billing during year 2001. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
YDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify YDC of 
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  5
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such \0cparty's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For YDC:
5/1 Miasnikyan Av.
Yerevan 375025
Republic of Armenia
Facsimile:
(3742) 522-276
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of YDC, may be 
taken or executed by its Director, or by such other person or persons as YDC shall 
designate in writing, and YDC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
YEREVAN DISTRIBUTION COMPANY
By /s/ Rouben Shugarian 
Authorized Representative
Page  6
