Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
October 31, 2002 
 
Mr. V. Khachatryan 
Minister of Finance and Economy 
Ministry of Finance and Economy  
Yerevan 
Republic of Armenia 
 
Re:   
Cr. 3175-AM (Electricity Transmission and Distribution 
Project) 
 
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement  
 
Excellency: 
 
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (
Electricity Transmission and Distribution 
Project
), dated March 30, 1999, between the Republic of Armenia (the Borrower) and the 
International Development Association (the Association) as amended. We also refer to your letter 
of June 21, 2002 to the Association requesting amendments to the Agreement. We are pleased to 
inform you, that the Association agrees to the following amendments: 
 
1. 
The Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the 
word “and” after the words “(the USAID Grant Agreement)” and  reads as follows:   
 
“(F) to assist in financing the Project, the Borrower has contracted from the Japan Bank  
for International Cooperation (JBIC), a loan in an amount equivalent to forty two million  
US dollars ($42,000,000) (the JBIC Loan) on the terms and conditions set forth in  
an agreement entered into between the Borrower and JBIC; and” 
 
2. 
Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by deleting the word 
“and” between “2000” and “2001” and inserting the words “and thereafter” after the words 
“2001.”  
3. 
A new sub-section (g) is added to Section 5.01 in Article V of the Development Credit 
Agreement to read as follows: 
 
“(g) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph (A), the right of the 
 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the JBIC Loan made to the Borrower for the  
 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in  
 
part, pursuant to the terms of the JBIC Loan Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
the JBIC Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity  
 thereof. 
 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
(iii) 
Subparagraph (i) shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of  
 
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by 
 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and 
 
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
 
Agreement.” 
 
4. 
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit) to the 
Development Credit Agreement is revised to read as set forth in the Attachment to this Letter. 
 
5. 
Paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is revised to read as 
follows: 
 
“(c) 
 the term “operating costs of the PIU” means the incremental expenses incurred  
 
by the PIU on account of project implementation, including, office rent and maintenance,  
 
office supplies, utilities, bank service charges, communications, vehicle operation and  
 
maintenance, office equipment operation and maintenance, support staff salaries  
 
(excluding salaries of civil servants), audits, travel and supervision costs and such other  
 
expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Association.” 
 
6. 
Schedule 2 (Description of the Project) to the Development Credit Agreement is revised 
as follows: 
 
(a)  Part B is revised by deleting the words “Replacement of 220kv and 110kv circuit 
breakers and current transformers” and replacing them with “equipment for rehabilitation...” 
 
(b)   A new paragraph, Part E, is added which reads as follows: 
 
“Part E: Renovation 
 
Renovation of  the office building of the Energy Regulatory Commission.” 
 
7. 
Part C of Section 1 of Schedule 3 (Procurement) to the Development Credit Agreement is 
revised by adding a new paragraph 3 which reads as follows:  
 
“(3) 
Procurement of Small Works 
 
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
 
amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a 
 
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. 
 
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
 successfully.”
 
Page  3
-
3
-
8. 
Paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 4 (Implementation Program) to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by 
deleting the words “from the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy, 
Armenego and YDC.”    
 
9. 
Paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 5 (Special Account) to the Development Credit Agreement is 
hereby amended by deleting the word “and” between (2) and (3) and adding “and (5)” after (3) to 
read as follows: 
 
“
the term “eligible categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (5).”  
 
10. 
Paragraph A (1) of Schedule 6 (The Subsidiary Loan Agreements) to the Development 
Credit Agreement is hereby deleted and Paragraph B is renumbered as Paragraph A and 
Paragraph C as Paragraph B. 
 
11.  
The renumbered Paragraph B (3)(b) of Schedule 6 to the Development Credit Agreement 
is hereby amended by adding the words “and thereafter” after the words “during year 2001.“  
 
All the terms and conditions of the DCA, as amended hereby, shall remain in full force 
and effect. 
 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing, dating and 
returning to us the attached copy of this letter. This amendment will become effective as of date 
of countersignature upon receipt by the Bank of the countersigned copy of this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
By:  /s/  Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo 
 
Country Director 
South Caucasus Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
CONFIRMED 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
By:     /s/  Vardan Khachatryan 
Date:  December 17, 2002 
Page  4
-
4
-
Attachment 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)   Goods, equipment                
11,193,000 
 
100% of foreign 
and 
vehicles 
of 
local 
     expenditures, 
 
  
 
100%
of expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
85%
of local expenditures 
 
for other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(2)  
 Consultants’ 
 
 
  1,009,000 
 
100% 
services and training 
 
(3)   Operating costs 
 
 
    750,000 
 
100% 
of the PIU 
 
(4)   Refunding of 
 
 
    457,000 
 
Amounts due pursuant 
Project Preparation 
 
 
 
 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) 
Advance       of 
this 
Agreement 
 
(5)   Works 
91,000 
 
90% 
 
(6)   Unallocated 
1,500,000
TOTAL 
15,000,000 
 ======== 
 
Page  5
-
5
-
Cleared with and cc:  N. Rukuba-Ngaiza (LEGEC); T. Nguyen (LOAG1);  
 Hinderdael/Bhattacharya 
(ECSPS) 
 
cc: 
Mr. A. Movsessyan, Minister of Energy 
 
Mr. V. Movsesyan, Chairman or AERC 
 
Mr. R. Hovhannisyan, Project Manager, Electricity Transmission and Distribution  
 Project 
 
Mr. Pieter Stek, Executive Director for Armenia, the World Bank 
 
