                          Document of
                        The World Bank




                                            Report No: ICR000083




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         ( IDA-31750 )




                             ON A

                  CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                       SDR 15.0 MILLION
                (US$21.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO

                           ARMENIA

                            FOR AN

 ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT

  IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE POWER SECTOR
       RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM




                          June 30, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2007)
                     Currency Unit = Armenian Dram
                           US$1.00 = 341 Dram

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 - December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL       Adaptable Program Loan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DAS       Data Acquisition System
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DPLC      Distribution Power Line Carrier
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ENA       Electric Networks of Armenia (privatized Distribution Company)
EPSO      Electro Power System Operator (dispatcher)
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
FSC       Financial Settlement Center
GWh       Gigawatt-hour
HVEN      High Voltage Electric Network CJSC (Transmission Company)
IAS       International Accounting Standards
JBIC      Japan Bank for International Cooperation
kV        Kilovolt
KWh       Kilowatt-hour
LRMC      Long-Run Marginal Cost
MWh       Megawatt-hour
NPV       Net Present Value
PCB       Poly-Chlorinated Biphenyls
PIO       Project Implementation Office
PSRC      Public Services Regulatory Commission
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
SCADA     System Control and Data Acquisition
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
YDC       Yerevan Distribution Company


            Vice President: Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
          Country Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo, ECCU3
           Sector Manager: Charles Feinstein, ECSSD
       Project Team Leader: Jann Masterson, ECSSD
         ICR Team Leader: Jann Masterson, ECSSD

                                              ARMENIA
                  Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 27
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 34
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 35
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 36
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 47
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49
 Annex 10 Transmission Substations............................................................................. 50

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Electricity
Country:                Armenia               Project Name:         Transmission &
                                                                    Distribution Project
Project ID:             P008276               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-31750
ICR Date:               06/30/2008            ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:             GOVT. OF ARMENIA
Original Total
                        XDR 15.0M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 15.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Energyinvest PIO SI
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)
US Agency for International Development (USAID)


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/17/1996    Effectiveness:       05/31/2000         05/31/2000
Appraisal:             09/29/1997    Restructuring(s):                       05/29/2003
Approval:              03/04/1999    Mid-term Review:                        05/21/2004
                                     Closing:             06/30/2002         06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                         Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   7                  7
Power                                                              93                 93


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                              Primary          Primary
Infrastructure services for private sector development           Secondary         Secondary
Other financial and private sector development                   Secondary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                                 Primary          Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization             Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                 Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Charles M. Feinstein                Dominique M. Lallement
Project Team Leader:       Peggy Janice Masterson              Salman Zaheer
ICR Team Leader:           Peggy Janice Masterson
ICR Primary Author:        Arthur Kochnakyan



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(a) Improve measurement and accountability of electricity and revenue flows between
generation, transmission and distribution companies, and within the Yerevan Distribution
Company (YDC).




                                                 ii

  (b) Reduce technical losses in the electricity transmission and Yerevan Distribution
Company, and improve system availability;

  (c) Improve the commercial performance and financial condition of Armenergo
(national dispatch company), and High Voltage Electric Network Company
(transmission) and YDC.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDOs as restated through various amendments to the Development Credit
Agreement were to:

  (a) Improve measurement and accountability of electricity and revenue flows between
generation, transmission and distribution companies;

  (b) Reduce technical losses and increase reliability of the power supply in the electricity
networks, and improve system availability;

  (c) improve the commercial performance and financial condition of EPSO and
HVENC.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target         Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
                                              approval             Target        Completion or
                                             documents)            Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Reconciliation of meter readings between generation, transmission and
               distribution.
                                                                              Reconciliation of
                                                                              meter reading

                                         Reconciliation of                    between generation,

                                         meter readings                       transmission and

                                         between                              distribution since

Value                                    generation,                          2002. Improved

quantitative orNo reliable system        transmission and                     accountability &

Qualitative)   metering                  distribution.                        billing. Financial

                                         Improved                             Settlements Center

                                         accountability and                   operating since

                                         billing.                             2002 to collect
                                                                              information
                                                                              electronically from
                                                                              metering points.
Date achieved 02/08/1999                 06/29/2007                            06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The target was completely achieved, with better results than expected.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Inclusion of load-flow characteristics in tariff design (time-of-day pricing) and
               inclusion of reasonable technical losses in tariffs.



                                              iii

                                                                             Reasonable

Value           No system metering, no     Reasonable                        technical losses

quantitative or way to accurately          technical losses                  included in tariff

Qualitative)    measure system losses.     included in tariff                starting 12/31/2003.
                                                                             Time of day pricing
                                                                             included in tariff.
Date achieved 02/08/1999                   06/29/2007                        06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The target was achieved.
achievement)
                Technical losses will be quantified by the metering program, and the impact of
Indicator 3 :   the APL will be assessed against the target of reducing technical and unmetered
                losses to 18%.
                                                                             Technical losses
                                                                             and unmetered
                                                                             losses in
                                           Technical losses                  distribution were
Value           No clear idea of technical and unmetered                     reduced from
quantitative or and unmetered losses but   losses not more                   21.7% in 2003 to
Qualitative)    they are estimated at 33%
                of net supply.             than 18% of net                   15.1% in 2006;
                                           supply.                           Transmission losses
                                                                             were reduced from
                                                                             4.2% in 2003 to
                                                                             1.4% in 2006.
Date achieved 02/08/1999                   06/29/2007                        06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Total system losses (distribution and transmission) were 16.5% in 2006. Target

achievement)    of 18% for two-phase APL exceeded.

Indicator 4 :   Successful implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan.
Value                                      Actual collections                Collections at about
quantitative or Collections 85%.           at least 95% of                   100% in 2005,
Qualitative)                               bilings.                          2006 and 2007.
Date achieved 02/08/1999                   06/29/2007                        06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %        95% target achieved in 2003. Target exceeded in final years of the extended

achievement)    project.

Indicator 5 :   Adoption of IAS-based accounting and reporting.
Value
quantitative or No IAS in Armenergo or     Adoption of IAS.                  IAS adopted on

Qualitative)    HVENC.                                                       1/1/2000.

Date achieved 02/08/1999                   06/29/2007                        06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 6 :   Tariffs set to cover reasonable operating and maintenance costs, debt service
                requirements and accumulated depreciation.
Value           Tariffs include coverage Tariffs set to cover                Tariffs set to cover
quantitative or of O&M costs, technical reasonable                           reasonable
Qualitative)    losses of 18.5% and        operating and                     operating and


                                                iv

               partial debt service.       maintenance costs,                maintenance costs.
                                          debt service                       A provision for
                                          requirements and                   debt service
                                          accumulated                        requirements and
                                          depreciation.                      accumulated
                                                                             depreciation
                                                                             included in the
                                                                             tariff.
Date achieved 02/08/1999                   06/29/2007                        06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 7 :   External audits performed by international audit firms and internal financial
                control and auditing systems strengthened
                                                                             Audits
                Armenergo was regularly All audits                           submitted,mostly
                audited by international   submitted on                      on time, throughout
Value           audit firms during the     schedule and                      the project.
quantitative or earlier Power              financial control                 Beginning with the
Qualitative)    Maintenance Project.       and auditing                      year ending 2002,
                HVENC and YDC had          systems                           most of the
                never been audited.        strengthened.                     corporate audits
                                                                             were unqualified.
Date achieved 02/08/1999                   06/29/2007                        06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 8 :   Majority Shares in Yerevan Distribution Company (YDC) sold to a strategic
                investor.
                                                                             4 state owned
                                                                             distribution

Value           4 state-owned distribution Majority  of shares               companies

quantitative or                                                              consolidated into a
                companies                  of YDC sold to a
Qualitative)                               strategic investor.               single distribution
                                                                             company and sold
                                                                             to a foreign investor
                                                                             in October 2002.
Date achieved 02/08/1999                   06/29/2007                        06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %        100% achieved. The distribution company was privatized in fall 2002, became a

achievement)    profitable enterprise and was sold in 2005.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Installation of system metering at commercial points completed by USAID and



                                                v

               Financial Settlements Center established and operational.
                                                                            100% system
                                        100% system                         metering at

Value          No reliable system       metering at                         commercial points

(quantitative  metering, no accurate    commercial points                   and Financial

or Qualitative)accounting between       and Financial                       Settlements Center
               commercial points.       Settlements Center                  operating
                                        operational.                        successfully since
                                                                            2002
Date achieved 02/08/1999                06/29/2007                          06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %       100% achieved.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                        IP                 Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/24/1999          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     06/30/1999          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     12/30/1999          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      0.00
  4     06/30/2000          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  5     12/29/2000          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       1.26
  6     06/29/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       1.51
  7     12/28/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       1.51
  8     06/28/2002          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      1.51
  9     12/02/2002          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      1.51
  10    06/19/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       3.09
  11    12/23/2003          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      3.89
  12    06/29/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     10.26
  13    12/22/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     18.18
  14    06/27/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     19.57
  15    06/28/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     20.92
  16    06/28/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     21.69



H. Restructuring (if any)

                               ISR Ratings at      Amount

 Restructuring     Board        Restructuring Disbursed at      Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)     Approved                      Restructuring
                PDO Change                                           Key Changes Made
                                 DO      IP        in USD
                                                   millions
                                                               Following privatization of
   05/29/2003         N           S      U             1.91    distribution company, to
                                                               reallocate funds from


                                             vi

                        ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring   Board   Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)    Approved                Restructuring
             PDO Change                                  Key Changes Made
                         DO     IP      in USD
                                        millions
                                                   distribution component to
                                                   transmission component.
                                                   (Amendment to DCA)




I. Disbursement Profile




                                    vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At the time of appraisal Armenia was dependent on imports for about 80% of its primary
energy consumption and had restricted import options. With the exception of hydropower,
all other significant energy resources (oil, gas and nuclear fuel) were imported, with the
bulk of these imports coming through Georgia due to trade embargoes imposed by
Azerbaijan and Turkey. One of Government's highest priorities was ensuring a secure
supply of energy at reasonable prices to support restoration of the country's economic
competitiveness and the well-being of the population. While successive governments
made tangible progress in meeting these objectives, their efforts were complicated by: (a)
collapse in demand (electricity demand dropped from about 8,878 GWh in 1990 to about
4,500 GWh in 1997); (b) the composition of demand; (c) financial costs of electricity
supply; (d) consumers' ability to pay; (e) the high cost of the capital replacement
program; (f) the inadequate management capacity, incentives and tools to commercialize
sector enterprises, and (g) an untested legal and regulatory environment for private
investment in the power sector.

Recognizing the limitations associated with its efforts to improve the commercial
performance in the power sector and the need for private investment, the Government
proposed to create conditions to privatize the sector on favorable terms while ensuring a
secure energy supply. The Government's Letter of Development Policy dated November
21, 1998, which was agreed under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit and the Power
Sector Restructuring and Development Program, defined the Government's objectives
and strategy in the power sector, which included options and a framework for privatizing
power sector enterprises.

The Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project was the first of a two phase Power
Sector Restructuring and Development Program APL. The two phased program was
designed to: (a) place the power sector on an efficient commercial footing; (b) meet the
country's electricity requirements in a reliable and cost-effective manner; (c) attract
private capital to meet the bulk of the capital requirements in the sector; and (d) eliminate
quasi-fiscal deficit subsidies provided in the form of non-payments and other non-
technical losses of electricity, and below cost recovery tariffs.

Investments under the Electricity Transmission and Distribution Project were intended to
advance the Government's efforts to ensure financial recovery and to meet the financial
targets agreed under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit. The Project was also
expected to significantly improve the quality of technical and financial information
available to the regulatory and state management authorities; improve the accountability
of enterprise managers; and improve the attractiveness of the power sector to private
enterprises.

While the private sector would have been better placed to improve the sector's
commercial performance, a lack of investor interest in Armenia at the time of project



                                              1

preparation, coupled with the need to proceed with urgent rehabilitation and to improve
the quality of information available to regulatory and state authorities justified the use of
public funds for this Project. It was an integral part of both the Government's and the
Bank's strategy to address the main obstacles to the commercialization and privatization
of the Armenian power system.

Rationale for Bank Involvement. The project was consistent with the FY 1998-2000
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Alleviating key infrastructure bottlenecks in energy
(both directly and by catalyzing private participation) was a key element of the Bank's
CAS and the Government's development strategy.

The project was expected to reduce power sector companies' operating costs (enabling
cost-recovery at a lower tariff), enhance the reliability of electricity supply (improving
industrial competitiveness, increasing consumer welfare and alleviating a bottleneck to
private investment) and improve the conditions for private investment in the power sector.
Based on the Bank's involvement, Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF), which subsequently became JBIC, agreed to provide a loan of about US$43
million equivalent to finance additional rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution
infrastructure.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project development objectives were to: (a) improve measurement and accountability
of electricity and revenue flows between generation, transmission and distribution
companies, and within YDC; (b) reduce technical losses in the electricity transmission
network and YDC, and improve system availability; and (c) improve the commercial
performance and financial condition of Armenergo,1 HVENC and YDC.


The key performance indicators were:

      (a)   Reconciliation of electricity flows between generation, transmission and
            distribution companies, and consumers connected directly to the transmission
            grid (and verification of technical losses in transmission that were estimated at
            6%);
      (b)   Inclusion of load-flow characteristics in tariff design (time-of-day pricing) and
            inclusion of reasonable technical losses in tariffs;
      (c)   Electricity billed by Armenergo (transmission and dispatch) and Yerevan
            Distribution Company (as a % of net supply) increased from 82% to 92% and
            collections increased from 85% to 90% of billings;
      (d)   Reduction in technical losses in transmission from 6% (to be confirmed by
            metering) to 5.5% and in YDC from 13.5% to 12.5%;


1 Armenergo ­ national dispatch company; HVENC ­ High Voltage Electric Network Company
(transmission company); YDC (Yerevan Distribution Company).




                                              2

    (e)   Issuance of an unqualified audit report of Armenergo and YDC in accordance
          with International Auditing Standards; and
    (f)   Majority shares in YDC offered for privatization to strategic investors.

1.3 Revised PDO
The PDOs remained unchanged except for changing the names of the transmission,
dispatch and distribution companies as they became new legal entities following the
restructuring of the energy sector enterprises, eliminating the name of Yerevan
Distribution company following its privatization, and adding "reliability" to objective (b).
The PDOs as restated through amendments to the DCA are to: (a) improve measurement
and accountability of electricity and revenue flows between generation, transmission and
distribution companies; (b) reduce technical losses and increase reliability of the power
supply in the electricity networks, and improve system availability; (c) improve the
commercial performance and financial condition of EPSO and HVENC.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
Project benefits accrued to consumers, to the power sector in general and to the
Government. Consumers benefited from increased availability and reliability of power
supply and lower tariffs compared to the "business as usual" (without project) scenario.
The power sector benefited from an improved environment for private investment,
modern technical equipment and improved management. The Government's annual
fiscal deficit in the power sector was estimated at 4 percent of GDP in 1998. In contrast,
the power sector is now one of the Government's largest sources of tax revenue. The
termination of government subsidies to this formerly inefficient sector has freed up funds
for social, health and education programs and other essential budget items.

The main original direct beneficiaries were: High Voltage Electric Network Company
(HVENC, the transmission company), Armenergo (the dispatch company) and Yerevan
Distribution Company.2 The revised direct beneficiaries were: High Voltage Electric
Network CJSC (HVEN), Electro Power System Operator (EPSO, the dispatcher), and the
Public Services Regulatory Commission (PSRC, the independent regulator).

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
There were five original components:
Component 1:        System metering (US$7.3 million), financed entirely by USAID -
installation of energy, current, load and volt meters between the key commercial nodes in
the system;




2 In 2002, the Government of Armenia consolidated four distribution companies, including
Yerevan Distribution Company, into a single distribution company, Electric Networks of
Armenia (ENA) and sold it to a foreign investor, Midland Resources Holding. The new owner
transformed the company into a profitable enterprise and in 2005, the Distribution Company was
sold to Russia's Unified Energy Systems (RAO UES).



                                               3

Component 2: Transmission system rehabilitation (US$9.1 million) ­ partial
rehabilitation of four 220 kV transmission substations, including replacement of circuit
breakers, current transformers and switchgear;

Component 3: Rehabilitation of the Yerevan Distribution system (US$13.4 million)­
partial rehabilitation of low-voltage (<35 kV) substations and underground and overhead
cables in Yerevan; OECF would cover the remaining distribution substations;

Component 4: Strengthening of the National Dispatch Center (Armenergo) (US$1.0
million) ­computers and software for power system planning, load management and
strengthening of the management capacity to manage financial flows in the system;

Component 5: Consultant services and Project Implementation Office (PIO) costs
(US$2.0 million)­consultants for procurement and implementation supervision,
incremental operating costs of PIO; external audits of Armenergo and YDC by
internationally reputed accounting firm; consulting services to strengthen Armenergo's
management capacity, ability to dispatch generation plants based on economic criteria
and to establish and operate a financial settlements unit.

1.6 Revised Components
Component 1: System Metering (US$15.0 million) - USAID increased their financing
from US$7.3 million to US$15.0 million to support additional system metering and the
establishment and operation of a Financial Settlements Center to manage financial flows
in the energy sector.

Component 2:        Transmission System Rehabilitation (US$19.75 million). Following
privatization of the distribution company (October 2002) all funds from component 3 ­
Rehabilitation of the Yerevan Distribution Company were reallocated to Component 2.
As a result of the reallocation, 8 transmission substations were partially rehabilitated
compared to 4 substations originally planned.

Component 3: Distribution Rehabilitation (US$35.85 million). Following privatization
of the Distribution Company and reallocation of IDA funds to Component 2, the private
investor and JBIC took over financing of activities under this component. At JBIC's
request, the Development Credit Agreement was amended to include its cofinancing
(about US$51.6 million equivalent) as an integral part of the project. JBIC financing
included rehabilitation of thirty three (later reduced to thirteen) 110 kV distribution
substations.

Component 4: Strengthening of the National Dispatch Center (EPSO CJSC) (US$12.99
million). IDA financed computers and power system management software (US$0.27
million). JBIC is financing the installation of the first phase of a modern System Control
and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system.

Component 5: Consultant Services and Project Implementation Office (US$5.27 million,
IDA financed US$2.4 million for consultant services and operating costs and JBIC
financed US$3.03 million for consultant services.


                                              4

Component 6: Renovation of PSRC's Office Building (US$300,000) ­ This component
was added in October 2002 at the request of the Borrower. The IDA Credit provided
about US$0.1 million for civil works, and the USAID Energy Efficiency Project provided
US$0.2 million for energy efficiency improvements (roofing, doors, windows, heating
and cooling systems, etc.)

The changes to the components financed by IDA were made through amendments to the
Development Credit Agreement.

1.7 Other significant changes
The project was originally designed as a two-phase APL; however, the second phase did
not materialize due to a combination of circumstances, including project implementation
delays, the success of energy sector reforms, the significant progress made towards
achieving the development objectives of the entire APL through this project and the five
SACs, and emerging priorities in other sectors such as health, education and agriculture.

The project design was modified to accommodate restructuring in the sector, particularly
privatization of the Distribution Company, and changes in the scope of the JBIC financed
investments. Four DCA amendments were made:

      ·    October 31, 2002, to include JBIC as a cofinancier, revise definition of
           incremental operating costs for the Project Implementation Office (PIO),
           revise the project description, and include a sixth component covering
           renovation of the regulator's office building;
      ·    May 29, 2003, to terminate the Project Agreement with Yerevan Distribution
           Company (YDC) and remove all mention of YDC from the Development
           Credit Agreement; revise the project description and development objective,
           revise Component 2 to include the rehabilitation of 4 additional transmission
           substations, and reallocate funds from Component 3 to Component 2;
      ·    December 13, 2004, to replace Armenergo with Electro Power System
           Operator (EPSO); to reflect the name change of the regulator from Energy
           Regulatory Commission to Public Services Regulatory Commission (PSRC);
           and to reallocate funds from other categories to Category 1: goods, equipment
           and vehicles to finance computer hardware and software for EPSO;
      ·    May 2005, to make minor revisions to the amendment letter dated December
           13, 2004.


The closing date of the credit was extended 6 times, from June 30, 2002 to June 30, 2007,
to allow time to complete the transmission component, which was delayed due to
effectiveness and procurement delays, and as a result of the restructuring in the power
sector as well as privatization of the distribution company. Closing date extensions were
as follows:

      ·    extended from June 30, 2002 to December 31, 2002.           A short 6 month
           extension was granted due to overdue audits of HVEN and Armenergo;



                                              5

      ·     extended from December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2004 as the credit was
            only 8% disbursed and 18-24 months were estimated as needed to complete
            the two contracts for substation rehabilitation, which were signed in 2003;
      ·     extended from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005 to allow completion
            of ongoing procurement contracts;
      ·     extended from December 31, 2005 to October 31, 2006 to complete ongoing
            procurement activities and add procurement of additional relay protection
            equipment;
      ·     extended from October 31, 2006 to December 31, 2006 to allow completion of
            ongoing procurement contracts;
      ·     extended from December 31, 2006 to June 30, 2007 at the request of the
            supplier who was unable to deliver porcelain insulators by December 31, 2006,
            due to a shortage on the world market.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
The overall quality at entry is rated Satisfactory. This assessment is based on:

Soundness of the Background Analysis supporting the Project:                   The project was
conceived as one of the investment components underpinning the Government's Power
Sector Restructuring and Development program (see Annex 11 of PAD).                      Other
investments were provided by USAID and JBIC (as part of the Project), as well as by
KfW. Energy sector reforms were detailed in the Financial Rehabilitation Plan approved
through Government Decree No. 555 "Measures for Financial Rehabilitation of the
Energy Sector" (December 2, 1997) and Government Decree No. 555 (September 7,
1998) to further improve the financial condition of the sector, prepare the sector for
privatization, and privatize key enterprises in accordance with its privatization strategy
(Decree 551) which sought to attract private investors. Implementation of the Financial
Rehabilitation Plan was monitored under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit.


Quality of the Project Design: The design of the project drew on lessons learned from
other internationally-funded operations in Armenia, including:

      ·     International prices (instead of Soviet price lists) were used in the cost
            estimates to mitigate the risk of under-funding;
      ·     To alleviate the risk of delayed or non-existent counterpart funding, an
            effectiveness condition was included in the DCA requiring three months of
            estimated expenditures to be deposited into a Project Account by HVEN to
            ensure timely provision of local financing;
      ·     The number of procurement packages was minimized and international
            technical specifications were used to facilitate the competitive procurement of
            goods;




                                                6

     ·    A Government Decree defined procedures for internal clearance of
          procurement documents, and decisions and the responsibilities and authority
          of the Ministry of Energy, beneficiary enterprises and the PIO were also
          clearly defined at the outset.
     ·    The project was complemented by a broader power sector reform program
          supported through the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III), which aimed to
          facilitate the commercialization of the power sector entities, improve payment
          discipline, and institute regulatory reforms. The project profited from lessons
          learned under SACs I and II and the earlier Power Maintenance Project.
     ·    Project preparation was lengthy (36 months according to the PAD) and
          relatively costly. 3 The lengthy project preparation dialogue focused on
          obtaining government buy-in to the need for institutional reforms in the
          energy sector (reducing the number of distribution companies, cost recovery
          tariffs, collection improvements, elimination of the quasi-fiscal deficit, and
          preparing the sector for private ownership). Additional time was needed when
          the project had to be renegotiated as a two part APL after a larger project had
          already been negotiated.

Adequacy of Government's Commitment:               The Government displayed significant
commitment to energy sector reform and to the project during preparation:

     (i)  Extensive discussion was held within Government and with Parliament of the
          energy sector financial rehabilitation plan, and the need for the project/APL
          to address the underlying causes of the sector's poor financial condition;
     (ii) Steps were taken to raise electricity prices and increase transparency and
           accountability in the use of revenues, including a 12.5% tariff increase on
           January 1, 1999;
     (iii) An Energy Law was adopted, an autonomous energy regulator was
           established, the 12 Yerevan distribution companies were consolidated into a
           single company and the other 40+ distribution companies into 3 regional
           companies, generation enterprises were separated from transmission, and a
           power privatization strategy was approved and an international consultant was
           hired to assist with privatization of the distribution company;
     (iv) Steps were taken to expedite project implementation, including staffing of the
           PIO, procurement and financial management training, preparation of a Project
           Implementation Plan, and establishment of a financial management system
           (funded from a PPF). The Government also established a Project Management
           Board to oversee the Project.




3There seems to be a discrepancy as the PAD shows the first identification mission in February
1995; whereas the system shows expenses recorded against P008276 starting in FY93. An old
code may have been used that already had time/expenses charged to it.



                                              7

Assessment of Project Risks: The risks were clearly identified during preparation and
mitigating measures were planned for each of the risks. The key risk that materialized ­
implementation delays - was rated as significant in the PAD, and despite the various
measures listed in (iv) above taken to mitigate the risks, the project suffered from
implementation delays, most of which can be attributed to an extremely long
effectiveness delay (14 months from Board approval), the restructuring of the energy
sector and delays in the privatization of the distribution company. The risk of lack of
local financing was alleviated by including an effectiveness condition for the deposit of
three months' local financing into a Project Account. HVEN later requested IDA to
waive this effectiveness condition, because procurement had not started due to the two
unsuccessful attempts to privatize the Distribution Company. IDA agreed to waive the
condition provided that HVEN ensured that funding would be available when required.
There were some delays in providing the local funding, but HVEN eventually provided it.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)
In November 2000 the Borrower requested an amendment to reallocate funds from the
distribution component to the transmission component, taking into account the expected
privatization of the distribution companies. The task team indicated to the Ministry of
Energy that such an amendment was contingent on the privatization outcome, as funds
envisaged for the distribution component could not be allocated to the transmission
component unless a strategic investor, willing to make the necessary investments in the
distribution subsector, was in place. The team recommended that the Ministry of Energy
proceed with the rehabilitation of the four substations in the original project scope and
rehabilitate the additional four substations once the distribution companies had been
privatized. The Ministry of Energy indicated that it preferred to have the same supplier
for all eight substations, as this would reduce the costs of training on the new equipment,
spare parts, and maintenance. The Ministry proposed waiting until the distribution
companies were privatized. After privatization failed twice due to external circumstances,
the Bank team indicated that there could be no reallocation from distribution to
transmission, and that the PIO should proceed with the rehabilitation of the 4 substations
planned in the original project scope. Bidding documents had been prepared by the PIO
for over a year, but were not submitted to the Bank for review, pending the results of
privatization. The contract for the first four substations was signed in April 2003.

After the successful privatization of the Distribution Company in October 2002, the
Project was restructured in May 2003, to reallocate funds from the distribution
component to the transmission component. Restructuring was completed through an
amendment to the Development Credit Agreement. The contract for the additional four
substations was signed in August 2003.

The mid-term review was postponed from September 2000 until May 21, 2004, when the
project was about 48 percent disbursed.         The major changes to the Project had been
accomplished through the Project restructuring in May 2003, so the mid-term review
served to confirm the progress achieved in meeting the development objectives and
proposed measures to accelerate project implementation, including a weekly update by


                                               8

the PIO to IDA on progress/delays with the two transmission substation rehabilitation
contracts. The mission also reviewed project management arrangements following the
dismissal of the Project Manager in March 2004, and confirmed that measures had been
taken to ensure that local financing requirements were being deposited monthly into the
Project Account.

The Project was at risk for a cumulative period of 24 months during the project life of 8
years, initially due to a lengthy effectiveness delay caused by the formation of two new
governments and a delay in recruiting the procurement/implementation consultant. The
project again became at risk in June 2002 due to extremely slow disbursements, the
deteriorating financial condition of energy sector enterprises and delays in recruiting
auditors for the entity audits for the year ending December 31, 2001. Project
implementation performance remained at risk in December 2002 due to the inability of
HVEN to provide funding for locally financed civil works, but was upgraded once locally
financed contracts were signed. The project was rated at risk in December 2003, because
of a six month delay in starting local civil works. There were also delays in receiving
equipment from suppliers.

The Project benefited from the progress in power sector reform due to compliance with
the requirements of SACs I-V, in particular, increased billing and collections, removal of
tariff allowances for various categories of electricity consumers, gradual tariff increases
to ensure convergence towards cost-recovery, implementation of debt-restructuring plans
for power sector companies, and improved transparency and accountability. The SAC
requirements served as an efficient mechanism to foster sector reforms.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The Ministry of Energy, through its Energyinvest Project Implementation Office (PIO),
was responsible for monitoring the Project's performance indicators, project
implementation progress and evaluating progress in achieving the development
objectives. The Ministry reported regularly on energy sector reform monitoring indicators
outlined in the Financial Rehabilitation Plans under the SACs, and this information was
reported by the PIO in its quarterly progress reports. The PIO also reported on
implementation progress and project-specific indicators, and unaudited financial
statements of HVEN and Armenergo/EPSO in its quarterly reports, as well as progress in
implementing the JBIC investments. Reporting on USAID grants was done by USAID
contractors.

Due to the lack of system metering prior to fall 2002, the baselines of losses in the PAD
were rough estimates. The PIO and IDA agreed to use 2003 (the first full year that
system metering was operational) as the baseline for project monitoring.

From 2003 onwards, the Public Services Regulatory Commission (PSRC) monitored the
energy sector indicators and reported them on its website.4 The monitoring and reporting


4www.psrc.am



                                             9

by the PSRC will continue beyond the life of the project. Accurate energy sector
indicators provided through system metering (electricity supply, losses, collections) are
being used by the PSRC to calculate tariffs and by government to monitor energy sector
performance. Under the Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit the government
adopted the Integrated Financial Plan for public utilities (electricity, drinking water,
irrigation and urban electric transport), which served as guidance for policy development
and reforms, encompassing service provision rules, service quality monitoring indicators,
public disclosures on service quality and the responsibilities of utility companies.
Starting in 2006-2007 the PSRC adopted service quality indicators and a monitoring
system for the electricity and drinking water sectors. These show a steady and impressive
improvement in standards.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, now OP/BP 4.01) was the only safeguard policy
triggered by the Project, and the Project was rated Category B. The main project
environmental concerns identified during project preparation were: (i) noise pollution
during operation of air circuit breakers; (ii) oil leaks from transformers; and (iii)
inadequate fire prevention controls, particularly at transformers and large-volume oil
circuit breakers. Investigations by two independent consultants showed inconsistent
results as to the presence of poly-chlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in soil samples taken
beneath some existing transformers, suggesting that there may have been some isolated
instances where PCBs were used improperly in the past. The Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) was followed throughout the Project. In accordance with the EMP, technical
specifications for goods procured under the project were specified not to contain PCBs.
IDA implementation review missions verified that insulating oil from the old equipment
had been drained and disposed of properly. No oil spills were observed by the missions
visiting the substations. The replacement of air circuit breakers with modern SPF-6
circuit breakers reduced noise pollution in the surrounding residential areas, and the
replacement of large volume-oil circuit breakers with modern SPF-6 circuit breakers
reduced the risk of fire and improved the safety of staff.

In general, project financial management was handled satisfactorily throughout the
project life. Project financial statements were audited on an annual basis by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and all audit reports for the project accounts had unqualified
(clean) opinions. Most audits of the HVEN CJSC and Armenergo/EPSO CJSC (the two
beneficiary entities) were submitted on time, except on the three occasions when new
auditors had to be recruited. Beginning with the financial year ending December 31,
2002, most of the corporate audits were unqualified, except the 2003, 2004 and 2006
audits of HVEN CJSC. Submission of unqualified audits by the corporate entities is a
major accomplishment and was due to both: (i) the continuous efforts of the Financial
Management Specialist based in the Yerevan Country Office to follow up with the
entities to develop an Action Plan to correct the qualifications, and (ii) the willingness of
the corporate entities to address most of the auditor's recommendations.

Financial management supervision was carried out in two main ways: (i) review of the
project's and entities' annual audited financial statements and management letters,


                                                10

usually with intensive follow-up by the Financial Management Specialist; and (ii) review
during the Bank's supervision missions of the project's financial management and
disbursement arrangements to ensure compliance with the Bank's requirements.

HVEN and EPSO did not comply with all of the financial performance covenants
specified in the DCA. However, the beneficiary entities are owned by government
shareholders and sometimes have uncollectible receivables and debts of other entities
imposed upon them.


                                Target           HVEN        EPSO
                                                 FY06        FY06
Debt service ratio              >1.5             12.02       Negative
Current ratio                   >1.3              0.23       2.42
Accounts receivable             <90 days         126.4       35.1

The Borrower complied partially for much of the project life with the DCA covenant
requiring it to take all necessary measures to ensure that the average electricity tariffs
shall be sufficient to at least cover operation and maintenance costs, debt-service
requirements and accumulated depreciation. At the beginning of the Project tariffs
covered some O&M costs, technical losses of 18.5% of net generation plus import and
partial debt service. At the close of the Project tariffs covered O&M costs, technical
losses, debt-service requirements and accumulated depreciation.

In general, procurement was handled satisfactorily and in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines, albeit with some delays, and some instances requiring rebidding.
Ex-post reviews of contracts were carried out as required. Bank Procurement Specialists
provided the required advice on procurement issues. The use of one-time procurement
waivers towards the end of the project facilitated project implementation by making it
easier to use a procurement method not in the DCA without having to resort to an
amendment of the DCA each time a new procurement method was needed.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
Both HVEN CJSC (transmission company) and EPSO CJSC (dispatcher) will continue to
operate after project completion, and no special transition arrangements are required.
Tariffs provide an allowance for operating and maintenance costs (1.5% of investment
cost). The circuit breakers provided by the project have a 20-25 year lifetime and require
considerably less maintenance than the obsolete equipment they replaced. The PIO
continues to manage the JBIC Loan (scheduled to close in October 2010), with funding
from the national budget. The 19 sets of DPLC equipment installed under the Project and
under KfW financing will be used in the new SCADA system financed by JBIC. During
the project the energy sector underwent significant transformation, and it is expected that
these reforms will be sustained. Since July 2004, the privatized distribution company has
been allowed to enter into direct contracts with the generation, dispatch and transmission


                                               11

companies. The commercial performance of the privatized distribution company has
improved through system and consumer metering and by a government decree allowing
the distribution company to disconnect non-paying consumers. Corporate governance
and accountability of the energy sector companies has improved. This trend is expected
to continue, with the establishment of a requirement for the largest companies in the
power sector to arrange for annual external audits of their financial and economic activity.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project supported two of the three objectives stated in the FY 2005-2008 CAS: (i) to
promote private sector led economic growth and (ii) to reduce non-income poverty
through better access to health, education and basic infrastructure services. By increasing
the reliability and availability of electricity supply, which was essential for better
functioning of other public services such as water supply and sanitation, the project
remained relevant throughout the implementation period. The Project objectives were
also consistent with the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
adopted by the Government in November 2003, to provide accessibility, affordable and
high quality electricity supply services to the population. As indicated in the CAS
Progress Report dated February 9, 2007, power is more reliable through the rehabilitation
of the 8 transmission substations under the Project. The 2005 Business Environment and
Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS) indicated a significant decline in the percentage
of firms reporting that electricity was a problem.5

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (including brief discussion of
causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in Annex 2)
The Project provided a technical and investment component to the large mosaic that was
the power sector, including power sector reform dialogue backed by ESW, policy
dialogue under the SACs, technical assistance under SATAC2 and from other donors,
privatization of the distribution company, parallel USAID system metering project,
parallel JBIC funding for substation rehabilitation and SCADA, and KfW transmission
rehabilitation projects ­ all contributed, including this project.         The result of these
activities, in part attributable to this Project, was a stable power infrastructure for
Armenia. This coincided with a rise in the contribution of the private sector, rise in
domestic private investment and FDI, and an acceleration of growth and a fall in poverty.

The project has met its development objectives, and even attained some indicators that
had been intended for the second phase of the APL.




5The percentage of firms reporting that electricity was a problem in doing business declined from
30 percent in 2002 to 9 percent in 2005 (Armenia BEEPS-at-a-glance, 2006).



                                                12

PDO (i) and (ii) The system metering component, financed entirely by USAID, included
installation of energy, current, load and volt meters at busbars between generation
companies, the transmission company, at key transmission substations, between the
transmission and the distribution company, and at key substations within the distribution
company. The component also included the establishment and equipping of the Financial
Settlements Center ­ a single entity responsible for metering and data acquisition, and
implementation and enforcement of temporary metering procedures. All high voltage
system meters installed were included in the comprehensive Data Acquisition System
which enabled the Financial Settlements Center to collect information electronically,
balance power flow through the system and identify "leakage" points. The commercial
borders between the power plants, the transmission company and the distribution
company are completely metered. Technical and unmetered losses have been quantified
since fall 2002 and have been significantly reduced.      Results of the metering program
included:

      ·     Improved energy flow metering to support accurate accounting and cash
            collections
      ·     Accurate and verifiable data acquisition and processing
      ·     Improved revenue meter calibration and testing procedures
      ·     Increased investor attractiveness of the Armenian power sector
      ·     A transparent and verifiable metering system for all members of the wholesale
            power market of Armenia
      ·     A significant reduction in metered total system losses.

Despite some initial resistance to the system metering program, there has been steady
progress in the reduction of losses since the meter installation was completed in fall 2002.
However, the reduction of technical and unmetered losses in distribution and increased
system availability is also partly ascribed to the increased operational efficiency and
improved financial discipline due to privatization of the distribution company.        Total
losses in the power sector were reduced from 33 percent (estimated before system
metering) of net supply in 1999 to 16.5 percent in 2006, compared to an end of APL
target of 18 percent.

                                Table 1: Loss Reductions

Losses                      2003     2004     2005     2006      End of 2-Phase APL
                                                                 Target
Transmission (technical)    4.2%       2.3% 1.6%        1.4%     5.5%
Distribution
  - Technical               11.2% 11.6% 10.4%           9.9%     12.5%
  - Commercial Losses       10.5%      5.6%    5.9%     5.2%
Total Distribution          21.7% 17.3% 16.3% 15.1%
Losses
Total Losses                25.9% 19.6% 17.9% 16.5% 18%
Note: Information from PSRC




                                             13

Through renovation of transmission substations, improved system control and data
collection system, and benefits of the improved metering, the technical losses in
transmission were reduced from 4.2 percent of net supply in 2003 to 1.4% of net supply
in 2006, significantly surpassing the PDO indicator target of 5.5%.

System availability was improved following the partial rehabilitation of 8 transmission
substations. Outages that now occur are as a result of short circuits on the overhead lines
and malfunctioning equipment not replaced by the Project. Engineers at HVEN report
that the duration of the outages has decreased. The newly installed DPLC/relay protection
equipment quickly switches off damaged lines in case of failures, reducing the downtime
of outages.

PDO (iii)
The establishment of the Financial Settlements Center to monitor and account for power
flows throughout the system, the metering which provided accountability and
transparency in the system, the significant reduction in losses, and the improvement of
financial reporting and internal control systems contributed to improve the commercial
and financial condition of the transmission company. As a result of the Energy Sector
Financial Rehabilitation Plan monitored under the SACs and supported by the Project and
the privatization of the distribution company in October 2002, tariffs have gradually
moved to cost recovery levels and collections have consistently improved.           Since
December 2003 tariffs include reasonable technical losses and time of day pricing. By
the end of the project tariffs also covered reasonable operating and maintenance costs,
and most investment and capital costs. Collections have increased from 85% in 1999 to
almost 100% in 2005, 2006, compared to an end of project target of 95%.

                    Table 2: Collections as a Percent of Billing (%)

               1999       2003     2004    2005     2006    End of Project
                                                                 Target
               85         95.5     96      100      100     95

             Note: Data from PSRC website.

With technical assistance from USAID and from SATAC II, International Accounting
Standards were adopted by the beneficiary companies in 2000. Armenergo, HVEN and
EPSO submitted annual audits that were mostly unqualified after 2002. Compared to the
poor quality of financial data available at appraisal, HVEN and EPSO now produce
financial statements that allow a meaningful external audit and reflect their financial
condition. Although, the overall commercial and financial condition of the energy sector
has improved substantially, the commercial and financial condition of the individual
enterprises (HVEN and EPSO) continues to be influenced by government interventions.




                                            14

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

A detailed economic and financial analysis of the Project (including the USAID and
JBIC funding) was carried out at the appraisal stage. The economic and financial
analysis was done by comparing "with program" and "without program" costs and
benefits. The economic analysis at appraisal yielded a NPV of US$106.2 million and
an ERR of 24%.

At completion, the economic and financial analysis calculations included the total
project costs (including the USAID-funded system metering and the JBIC
investments). The economic analysis at completion revealed a significant positive
impact of the project due to substantial increase in service availability in the early
years of the project, better-than-expected technical loss rate reductions and an
increase in the estimated value of electricity to the average consumer (as a result of
increases in the price of electricity alternatives). According to the economic analysis
of the Project at completion, the NPV was US$1,547 million (see Annex 3 for
details). The ERR of the project at completion was not calculated due to the series of
only positive net cash flows starting from the first year of the actual investments.
This implies that project investments yielded sizeable economic benefits starting
from the first year the actual investments were made.

The financial analysis of the Project at appraisal mirrored the economic analysis with
the exception of commercial losses consideration. The reduction in un-metered
consumption was projected to yield substantial entity-level benefits. The project
appraisal stage NPV and FRR were estimated at US$71.1 million and 23%
accordingly. At completion, the financial analysis was conducted based on the
assumptions presented in Annex 3. The NPV and FRR re-estimated at completion are
US$11.8 million and 16% accordingly (see Annex 3 for details). Based on the
significant positive `at completion' economic and financial analysis NPVs, the
project efficiency can be classified as substantial.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory
The development objectives and its components were and still are relevant for the power
sector and for the country. The project achieved its development objectives through a
combination of cofinancing (USAID and JBIC), policy dialogue under the SACs,
technical assistance under SATAC, privatization of the distribution company, energy
sector reforms, the results of other projects in the sector (KfW) and the results of the
project itself. Efficiency was better than expected, despite the delays in project
implementation. Indeed, the long project implementation period has provided a solid
track record of improvements (reductions in losses, improvement in collections, cost
recovery tariffs) that seem likely to be sustained.



                                              15

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The Project helped improve availability and reliability of power through the partial
rehabilitation of 8 transmission substations. Poorer households are less able to afford to
buy and operate back-up power generators. The significant reductions in losses helped to
keep tariffs at almost the same level in drams, while still maintaining cost recovery tariffs.
Improved availability and reliability of power also had a positive impact on water and
sanitation services.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
The Project was instrumental in strengthening the institutional capacity of the power
sector through establishment of the Financial Settlements Center, which is responsible for
metering electricity flows. The comprehensive Data Acquisition System (DAS) allows
the Financial Settlements Center to collect information electronically and identify
electricity leakage points. The government enforced a mandatory annual external audit
for the largest power sector companies, including HVEN, EPSO and the distribution
company to strengthen financial discipline in the sector. After the dissolution of
Armenergo in 2004 the distribution company was allowed to enter into direct contracts
with the generators, transmission company, dispatch company and the Financial
Settlements Center. The Public Services Regulatory Commission helped improve system
accountability by publishing billing and payment information for the power sector
entities.    The institutional capacity of the power sector was further enhanced by
improvements in corporate governance through the establishment of independent Boards
of Directors.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or negligible
The risk to development outcome is rated low or negligible, because of the long record
over time of increased collections, cost recovery tariffs and significant loss reductions.
To date, there has been no backsliding as evidenced by Tables 1 and 2, and it is expected
that this trend would continue.     The introduction of time-of-day pricing (15 AMD/kWh
from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. and 25 AMD/kWh from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m.) ensured more effective
energy use and reduced the risk of decreased system availability. The inclusion of
reasonable operating and maintenance costs, and capital and investment costs into tariffs
has led to improved financial viability of the power system. Although the financial
viability of the power sector has significantly improved, the individual state-owned



                                                16

entities are still influenced by government interventions, such as transferring bad debts
and other liabilities from other energy entities to the state-owned power sector companies.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project
was satisfactory. Through a combination of adjustment and investment operations,
including the Project, the Bank played a crucial role in advancing reforms in the energy
sector. Based on the Bank's involvement, Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) also agreed to provide a loan of about US$43 million equivalent. The project
was designed as an integral part of the Government's and the Bank's strategy to address
the main obstacles to the commercialization and privatization of the Armenian power
system. The decision during project design to focus on system metering at the points of
the largest flows rather than on the much more costly consumer metering resulted in a
significant and visible decrease in both technical and commercial losses. The project was
initially conceived as a single operation, to be financed by both an IDA credit and an
IBRD loan (US$32.8 million), and was appraised in September 1997 and negotiated in
December 1997. Following the change in government in March 1998 and the desire of
the new government to adopt a more gradual approach to energy sector reforms, the Bank
team was responsive and re-negotiated the project as a two-phase APL. Investments
under the project supported agreements reached under the Third Structural Adjustment
Credit, which provided the policy underpinnings for the sector reform program (power
industry unbundling and regulatory strengthening, elimination of quasi-budgetary
subsidies provided through the power sector, and privatization), including the Financial
Rehabilitation Plan for the Energy Sector. The project continued to support and was
supported by the energy sector reforms of the Fourth and Fifth Structural Adjustment
Credits. The project was firmly grounded by the Bank's economic and sector work,
which had assisted the Armenian authorities to define options and a framework for
privatizing power sector enterprises, and incorporated lessons learned from the earlier
Power Maintenance Project. The project was a key component of the Government's
Power Sector Restructuring and Development Program of December 1998, which
included parallel projects financed by USAID, JBIC and KfW.

The project development objectives focused on outcomes for which the operation could
reasonably be held accountable and the objectives were clear, realistic and important for
the country and sector.

The risk assessment focused on the appropriate risks and the ratings were realistic. One
of the risks rated substantial ­ implementation delays due to the non-availability of local
financing ­ materialized temporarily, despite the efforts taken to mitigate against this risk.
The one risk that was not considered was that delays in privatization as well as a request


                                             17

from the Government to reallocate funds from the distribution component to the
transmission component might seriously delay the start of Project implementation. At the
time of project appraisal, there was considerable enthusiasm and optimism about
privatization, and the external factors that led to reduced investor interest could not have
been foreseen.

The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower, the Ministry
of Energy and the implementing agencies during preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The
Bank carried out 16 supervision missions throughout the implementation period.
Problems encountered were flagged and appropriate remedial actions proposed.            The
task team focused on the project's development impact. The Bank allocated sufficient
budget and staff resources, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. The skills mix included power engineers, energy specialists, procurement
specialists, operations officers and financial specialists.

The Task Team also provided intensive hands-on support to the PIO to put in place
project management, procurement and financial management arrangements at the
beginning of project implementation, through a project launch workshop and extensive
follow-up. The Bank's procurement and financial management staff worked with PIO
and beneficiary staff to explain the rules and procedures to be applied during project
implementation and provided regular training in both financial management and
procurement procedures. After the procurement and financial management responsibility
was decentralized to the field, Bank staff were even more accessible to the PIO and
provided substantial just-in-time advice on procurement and financial management issues.

The QAG QSA5 Quality of Supervision Assessment (December 2002) rated the project
supervision as satisfactory at the second stage review. Development effectiveness,
adequacy of supervision inputs and processes and supervision of fiduciary/safeguard
aspects were rated satisfactory. Realism and quality of project performance reporting
were rated marginal. QAG recommended that the project should be restructured. This
was done in May 2003, after legal documents were provided concerning the privatization
of the distribution company. The Borrower had initially requested the reallocation of
funds from distribution to transmission components in 2000, but the Bank team
postponed the reallocation of funds after the first and second privatization attempts failed,
fearing that the required investments in the distribution subsector would not materialize
without a private investor.

The task team acted promptly when local financing became an issue, sending letters and
meeting with HVEN, and representatives of the Ministries of Energy and Finance and
Economy to express its concern. Because the local financing was to be provided by the


                                                18

beneficiary (and not from the national budget), this was not an issue that could be
addressed as part of the country counterpart financing dialogue. The task team also
intervened to try to resolve the issues with JBIC financing.

The Country Manager was instrumental in persuading JBIC to continue their financing
(about US$43 million equivalent) after they threatened to cancel their financing in
September 2005, as a result of extensive delays to their components due to the sale of the
distribution company and the inability of the Ministry of Energy to provide legal
documents concerning the new owner.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the Bank performance during lending and supervision as discussed above,
Overall Bank Performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government displayed its commitment to power sector reform during the design and
implementation stages by raising electricity tariffs, adopting a suitable Energy Law,
establishment of the Energy Regulatory Commission (see Section 2.1). The Government
ensured an adequate legal and regulatory framework conducive to achieving the
objectives of the Project. The regulator played a significant role in providing transparent
oversight of the power sector through independent leadership with energy and
economic/financial expertise. During the early phase of implementation, the continued
efforts to privatize the distribution company were solid proof of the Government's
commitment to ensure achievement of project objectives and energy sector reforms. The
Government succeeded in accomplishing the key objectives of the Financial
Rehabilitation Plan, which was a trigger for financing of the second phase of the APL.
The objectives of the project were achieved and the Government's performance was
instrumental in ensuring the achievement of the development objectives.

The Ministry of Energy was always available to the Bank supervision teams and worked
to resolve issues raised. Throughout project implementation a Deputy Minister was
designated to be responsible for supervision of the Project. Most of the implementation
delays occurred as a result of the successful restructuring and reform of the energy sector.
The legal changes to the various entities and the inability to obtain legal documents
concerning the new entities delayed the Bank financed components somewhat and the
JBIC financed components extensively, but this was beyond the responsibility of the
Ministry of Energy.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Despite the project implementation delays (which for the most part were not due to the
project implementing agency), the performance of the project implementing agency is
rated Satisfactory. The project was implemented by the Energyinvest PIO SI, on behalf


                                             19

of the beneficiary entities, HVEN CJSC and EPSO. The PIO was responsible for
implementing both the IDA financed and JBIC financed components simultaneously.
The Project Implementation Office had competent, highly skilled and motivated staff.
Financial management and procurement were conducted in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Progress reports were submitted regularly and contained the agreed
information. The first Project Manager resigned in 1999. The second Project Manager
was replaced in March 2004, and subsequently there were 3 other Project Managers.6
HVEN, the transmission company, had difficulties at a certain point in time to provide its
share of local financing for the preparatory civil works, due to its poor financial situation.
The local financing was eventually provided by HVEN, and the foundations and civil
works were completed.        The staff and management of both beneficiaries (HVEN and
EPSO) were responsive to issues raised by the IDA team and made serious efforts to
follow-up with action plans provided by the auditors and FMS to correct qualified audit
reports.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

In light of the government and implementing agencies' performance as discussed above,
Overall Borrower Performance is rated Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
      ·     Contract Strategy. In order to include "local cost sharing", and to reduce the
            cost, the contracts were split so that part of the civil works was financed by
            HVEN (the owner) and awarded to local contractors.             Some delays could
            have been reduced by including all civil works under the Supply and
            Installation contracts, which suppliers could then sub-contract to local firms.
      ·     Complete      Rehabilitation     versus     Partial     Rehabilitation.      HVEN
            management indicated that a lesson learned during project implementation
            was that it was preferable to rehabilitate fewer transmission substations and do
            a complete rehabilitation (as was done under the KfW projects) rather than to
            do partial rehabilitation of more substations. HVEN has applied this lesson to
            the JBIC financing and revised the final bidding document to reduce the
            number of 110 kV substations to be rehabilitated from 33 to 13.
      ·     Flexibility. Flexibility should be built into the project design. The task team
            and IDA management remained flexible throughout project implementation,
            adjusting the project scope, individual project components, project schedule,
            and closing dates as needed to take into account the energy sector
            restructuring and reforms.     Although the outcomes of these reforms and




6One resigned to take another position when the project was about to close and financing for the
PIO was uncertain. One died from a sudden illness.



                                              20

           restructuring were highly desirable, they did have a negative impact on the
           pace of project implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Comments received from the implementing agency were reflected in the ICR and are
included in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers ­ JBIC and USAID (see Annex 8)

JBIC:
The original project scope would have resulted in both JBIC and World Bank financed
suppliers working on 220kV and 110kV substations, possibly at the same time. The
Ministry of Energy requested that the project scopes be modified, so that the World Bank
would finance rehabilitation of 220kV substations and JBIC would finance rehabilitation
of 110kV substations, in order not to have two suppliers trying to work at the same
substation simultaneously. This seemed to work well, although the time taken to agree
on the revised project scopes did result in some delays.

USAID:
No comments received.
Any comments that are received after publication of the ICR will be filed in the Project
File in IRIS.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                             21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                       Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest
            +Components                                                                   Percentage of
                                          (USD millions)        Estimate (USD
                                                                    millions)              Appraisal

SYSTEM METERING (USAID)                            6.54                  15.00                 229
TRANSMISSION
REHABILITATION                                     8.14                  19.75                 243

DISTRIBUTION
REHABILITATION (JBIC)                             11.23                  35.85                 319

STRENGTHEN. NATIONAL
DISPATCH CENTER & SCADA                            0.98                  12.99                1326

OPERATING COSTS OF PIO
(including audits)                                 0.40                   1.00                 250

CONSULTANT SERVICES &
TRAINING:                                          1.60                   4.27                 267

RENOVATION OF PSRC
BUILDING                                           0.00                   0.30

               Total Baseline Cost                28.89                  89.16                 309

Physical Contingencies                             2.24                   0.00                 0.00

Price Contingencies                                1.67                   0.00                 0.00
                  Total Project Cost              32.80                  89.16                 309
Project Preparation Fund                          (2.00)                  0.66                  33
IDC & Commitment Fee                               0.17                   0.00                 100
      Total Financing Required                    32.97                  89.82                 272
Note: Project Preparation Fund in appraisal estimate is in parenthesis as it was not shown separately in the
cost table in the PAD. Very little of the PPF was disbursed, due to a reluctance to hire consultants and send
PIO staff for training before the project was approved.

Note: JBIC costs are for the most part estimated based on their approved funding of 5399 million JPY
(US$51.6 million using exchange rate of May 31, 2008 (1 US$=104.64 JPY)), as the main contracts have
not yet disbursed. JBIC was not included in the original project cost table in the PAD, although its
financing was foreseen.




                                                     22

(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds                 Type of       Estimate      Estimate     Percentage of
                                        Cofinancing      (USD           (USD         Appraisal
                                                        millions)     millions)
US: Agency for International
Development (USAID)                    Parallel      8.20          15.20           185

Borrower (HVEN)                                      3.777           1.23           33
International Development
Association (IDA)8                                  21.00          21.79           104

JAPAN: Japan Bank for International
Cooperation (JBIC)                     Parallel       0.00         51.60

 Total                                              32.97          89.82           272




7The original estimate at appraisal included a US$2.01 million contribution by Yerevan
Distribution Company. It was planned at appraisal that HVEN would contribute US$1.59 million.

8Difference in appraisal estimate and actual IDA credit amounts are due to fluctuations of the
$/SDR exchange rates.



                                               23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

There were six components:

1.      System metering. (US$15 million), financed entirely by a grant from USAID.
This component included installation of energy, current, load and volt meters at the
busbars between generation companies, the High Voltage Electric Network (HVEN)
CJSC, at key transmission substations within HVEN CJSC, between HVEN CJSC and
the distribution company (to support new commercial arrangements), and at key
substations within the distribution company (to permit internal control). The component
also included establishment and equipping of the Financial Settlements Unit ­ a single
entity responsible for metering and data acquisition, implementation and enforcement of
temporary metering procedures).

Transmission System Metering.          3,584 electronic watt-hour meters, 667 instrument
transformers and other ancillary equipment were procured and installed in 2001/2002.
The meter capabilities included load profile and data storage to enable accurate electricity
metering and "retroactive" system balancing. The commercial borders between the
power plants, the transmission company and the distribution company are completely
metered. All high voltage system meters installed were included in the comprehensive
data acquisition system (DAS) with a variety of data collection methods being used:
manual readings via laptops, reading via dial-up connections and on-line data reading.
This enabled the Financial Settlements Center to collect information electronically,
balance power flow through the transmission system and identify "leakage" points.
During the course of project implementation the power sector underwent another stage of
restructuring and the 110 kV substations were transferred from the transmission to the
distribution company. Nonetheless, the commercial metering points remained the same
and the losses tracked included those in the 110 kV system.

Distribution System Metering. 6,745 electronic watt-hour meters were procured and
installed in the distribution substations, replacing old Soviet era meters that were mostly
obsolete, easy to tamper with and of low accuracy. 100% of the metering points at the
level of 10/6 kV were covered and about 80% of the metering points at the 0.4 kV meters,
which were installed at the highest power flow points, enabling accurate measurement of
100% of power flows at 10/6 kV level and 80% of the flow through the 0.4 kV
distribution network nationwide.

The result of both the transmission and distribution system metering were:

      ·     Improved energy flow metering to support accurate accounting and cash
            collections
      ·     Accurate and verifiable data acquisition and processing;
      ·     Improved revenue meter calibration and testing procedures;
      ·     Increased investor attractiveness for the Armenian power sector; and
      ·     A transparent system of metering and accounting.




                                             24

The implementation of the system metering program resulted in a significant reduction in
metered total system losses. It also included the installation of tamper resistant meters
and metering systems, improved accuracy, and management (such as the establishment of
the Financial Settlements Center. Implementation of the DAS established a transparent
and verifiable metering system for all members of the wholesale power market of
Armenia.

2.      Transmission System Rehabilitation (US$19.75 million). The partial
rehabilitation of 8 transmission substations9 was completed, including replacement of
220 kV circuit breakers, 220 kV current transformers, disconnectors, switchgears, current
transformers, and installation of distribution power line carriers (DPLC) and relay
protection equipment. The 220 kV substations had been constructed between 1960 and
1970 and the existing equipment had deteriorated. Both air and oil circuit breakers were
installed at the substations and their operation was difficult. Equipment had to be
maintained to ensure the correct air pressure for the air circuit breakers and reserve
supplies of high quality oil had to be purchased and stored for the oil circuit breakers.
The equipment had become increasingly prone to breakdowns, which took a long time to
repair, leading to increased complaints from consumers. The old oil circuit breakers were
highly explosive and dangerous to operate.          The disconnectors often broke during
operation and the service life of most of the current transformers had expired. The
installation of the SF6 gas circuit breakers made it possible to significantly reduce
operating costs, by eliminating the need for air pressure compressor plants, oil measuring
equipment, and large quantities of reserve oil, and large numbers of operating staff to
monitor the obsolete equipment. Staff safety has been improved with the installation of
the new circuit breakers. The expected lifetime of the new circuit breakers is from 20-25
years, and they are equipped with the ability to block incorrect switching-off or
switching-on of the disconnectors. In case of failure, the microprocessor relay devices
(DPLC) recently installed on the overhead lines automatically switch-off the damaged
line. The DPLC equipment also provides telecommunication capability. Technical losses
in the transmission system were reduced from 4.2% in 2003 to 1.4% in 2006. The
renovation of the substations enhanced the reliability of electricity supply through
reduced outages in the system. The total number of outages at the renovated substations
was reduced from 131 in 2003 to 51 in 2005. The number of outages increased again in
2006, due to short circuits on the overhead lines and malfunctioning equipment or circuit
breakers that were not replaced under the Project, but the outages were not as long in
duration, as the damaged lines were able to be switched off quickly.

3.      Rehabilitation of the Distribution System (US$35.85 million). Following the
privatization of the distribution company in October 2002, the Armenian government
proposed to restructure the project. Most distribution investment would be handled by
the privatized distribution company. JBIC would finance renovation of approximately 33
"distribution" substations (110 kV), which were transferred from the transmission


9 Ekhegnadzor, Zovuni, Marash and Shahumyan-2 (original four substations), and Lichk, Ararat-
2, Ashnak and Shinuhair (Shinuhair received only 4 disconnectors).



                                             25

company to the distribution company as part of the privatization. Due to a reluctance of
the government to provide JBIC with the relevant legal documents concerning the
privatization, JBIC was unable to amend its legal documents to reflect the new ownership
of the distribution company for about 2 years. Eventually the legal documents were
amended, but before bidding documents could be issued, the distribution company was
sold to Russia's Unified Energy Systems (RAO UES) in 2005, and again JBIC had
difficulty to obtain copies of the relevant legal documents concerning the transaction.
Meanwhile, the Ministry of Energy decided to provide complete rehabilitation to a
reduced number of substations, and the JBIC bidding documents were once again revised
for complete rehabilitation of about 13 substations, instead of partial rehabilitation of 33.

4.      Strengthening of the National Dispatch Center (US$12.99 million). Under
IDA financing the power system planning and load management capacity EPSO, the
dispatch center, was significantly improved with the supply of computer hardware and
specialized power system management software. EPSO received 44 computers and a
local area network, as well as printers, plotters and associated equipment. Training was
provided by the supplier of the specialized power system planning and load management
software.   EPSO confirmed that the new equipment had enabled it to increase its
operational efficiency and better schedule renovations at the substations.           JBIC is
financing the first phase of a comprehensive SCADA/communication system. It is
planned to install special equipment for data acquisition and transmission in fourteen 220
kV substations and 12 power plants. 460 km of OPGW and two sets of DPLC equipment
will be installed for transmission of the information to the National Dispatch Center. The
contract for SCADA/communication system was signed on February 11, 2008.

5.      Consultants and PIU Operating Costs (US$5.27 million). Consultants were
hired to provide procurement and implementation supervision, and at the request of the
PIU, this covered implementation and supervision of the first contract for rehabilitation
of four substations. The PIU stated that it was capable of managing the procurement and
implementation supervision of the second contract, based on the experience gained under
the first contract. External audits of the project financial statements, and the financial
statements of the transmission company and of the dispatch company were financed from
the Credit throughout the project. JBIC hired consultants for procurement and
implementation and SCADA design under its financing.

6.      Renovation of the Public Services Regulatory Commission (PSRC) Office
Building (US$0.3 million). The IDA credit (about 1/3 of the cost) and the USAID-
financed Energy Efficiency Project (about 2/3 of the cost) cofinanced the renovation of
the PSRC office building. The renovation was completed on time and with good quality
works. The IDA credit financed primarily civil works for dismantling of equipment and
building spaces, construction of walls, electrical wiring, etc. The USAID grant financed
energy efficiency improvements such as roofing, doors, windows, etc. The renovations
included a public hearing room which has enabled public hearings on tariffs, licenses, etc.,
and has improved the transparency of the regulatory process.




                                             26

  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
  (including assumptions in the analysis)

The following costs were included in the economic analysis:
    · Total project costs;
    · Incremental operating costs associated with these investments (1.5% of capital
       costs, included in the tariffs);
The following benefits were quantified:
    · Enhancement of system availability (reduction in equipment failures) through
       rehabilitation;
    · Reduction of technical losses through rehabilitation and better load management;
    · Reduction of commercial losses.

Non-quantified benefits include the potential reduction in gas (and generation) costs
through successful implementation of the financial rehabilitation plan, further reduction
in technical losses and improvements in availability (with better maintenance from
improved cash-flow), and the privatization of sector enterprises on better terms than
without the project (through improved financial condition of the sector, training of
sector staff and information, and a more transparent regulatory environment).

At completion: The growth rate of electricity demand was revised considering the
forecasts of the GDP and consumption growth rates by population and industry. The
demand was projected to grow at an average annual rate of 3.5%. The average annual
exchange rate was projected at 1 USD = 400 AMD. The benefits of the project were
re-estimated based on the actual figures of the quantified indicators and projections
revised based on the actual and expected developments in the power sector. In
particular, the system availability increases were revised based on the actual average
figure of 97.2% and possible change due to the technical improvements in the system.
Savings derived from the reduction in technical losses have been valued at the long-run
marginal cost (LRMC) of generation, estimated to be US$ 0.0510 per kWh, based on a
gas cost of US$ 146.51 per thousand cubic meters. The system availability was
estimated through the Average Service Availability Index (ASAI) based on the data for
electricity supply interruptions due to equipment failures.


Un-served energy cost was calculated based on the value of electricity to the average
consumer. The cost of non-network electricity supply (diesel generators) was considered
the benchmark indicator for estimating the value of un-served energy. The average
annual retail domestic market price and the quantity of diesel fuel required for
production of 1kWh of electricity (approx. 0.09 liters) were taken for calculations. The
total economic cost of electricity supply was estimated based on the economic costs of
the generator, transmission, and distribution companies. The transmission and
distribution margins for the financial analysis were estimated considering all of the
expenses (including taxes) included in the tariff calculation of the relevant entities.


The average cost of generation was estimated based on the expected changes in the


                                              27

electricity generation mix with the forecasted commissioning of Combined Cycle Gas
Turbine (CCGT) at Yerevan Thermal Power Plant (YTPP) in 2008, Loriberd and
Shnokh Hydro Power Stations in 2011. The average retail tariff, transmission and
distribution margins were projected not to change due to the absence of significant
capital investments in the sector.


                    Table 1: Details of Economic and Financial Analysis


                              2000      2001   2002     2005     2006    2010   2014
  LRMC of                    0.0510 0.0510    0.0510 0.0510     0.0510  0.0510 0.0510
  generation     USD/kWh

  Estimated      USD/kWh 0.0015 0.0015        0.0015 0.0015     0.0015  0.0016 0.0016
  economic
  cost of
  transmission
  Estimated      USD/kWh 0.0104 0.0104        0.0104 0.0104     0.0104  0.0109 0.0109
  economic
  cost of
  distribution
  Total          USD/kWh 0.0630 0.0630        0.0630 0.0630     0.0630  0.0636 0.0636
  Economic
  cost of
  supply
  Value to       USD/kWh 0.7067 0.7138        0.6750 1.3147     1.5044  1.5044 1.5044
  average
  consumer
  Incremental    USD/kWh 0.6437 0.6509        0.6120 1.2517     1.4414  1.4408 1.4408
  value to
  economy
  Average cost   USD/kWh 0.0294 0.0303        0.0253 0.0254     0.0252  0.0294 0.0288
  of
  generation,
  VAT
  inclusive
  Average        USD/kWh 0.0397 0.0379        0.0372 0.0463     0.0530  0.0530 0.0530
  retail tariff,
  VAT
  inclusive
  Transmission USD/kWh 0.0020 0.0010          0.0004 0.0018     0.0018  0.0018 0.0018
  margin

  Distribution   USD/kWh 0.0300 0.0191        0.0191 0.0158     0.0202  0.0202 0.0202
  margin




                                             28

Economic analysis
                        2000  2001   2002    2005    2006    2010    2014
Total
investment
cost         `000 USD  6,260 5,251   5,000  2,517     418  20,000       0
Inc. O&M
costs (' 000
USD) (1.5%)  `000 USD     94   173     248    535     542   1,062     552
Total costs  `000 USD  6,354 5,424   5,248  3,052     960  21,062     552
Availability
w/o program  %          95.3  95.0    94.7   93.7    93.3    92.1    90.7
Availability
w/ program   %          96.5  96.7    96.9   97.2    97.2    97.2    97.2
Energy
delivered
w/o program  GWh       4,166 4,036   3,928  4,311   4,306   4,808   5,349
Energy
delivered w/
program      GWh      4,218 4,108  4,019  4,473     4,486   5,074   5,733
Annual
increased
availability GWh          52    72     91     161     180     266     383
Incremental
revenue      `000 USD 33,764 47,003 55,847 201,591 259,448 383,580 552,344
Technical
losses w/o
program      %          16.0  16.0    16.0   16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
Technical
losses w/
program (%)  %          15.9  16.3    15.4   10.4    10.2    10.2    10.3
Supply from
generation
w/o program  GWh       5,632 5,416   5,239  5,981   5,996   6,896   7,809
Supply from
generation
w/ program   GWh       5,566 5,352   5,177  5,911   5,926   6,815   7,717
Savings
through
reduced
losses       GWh          66    64      62     70      71      81      92
Value of
reduced
losses       `000 USD  3,380 3,250   3,144  3,590   3,599   4,139   4,687

Net benefits          30,791 44,830 53,744 202,128 262,087 366,657 556,479




                                   29

Financial analysis
                     2000 2001  2002  2005   2006   2010    2014
Total
investment    ` 000
cost          USD    6,260 5,251 5,000  2,517    418 20,000 -
Inc. O&M
costs (' 000  ` 000
USD) (1.5%)   USD       94   173   248   535     542  1,062    552
              ` 000
Total costs   USD    6,354 5,424 5,248  3,052    960 21,062    552
Service
availability
w/o program   %       95.3  95.0  94.7   93.7   93.3   92.1   90.7
Service
availability
w/ program    %       96.5  96.7  96.9   97.2   97.2   97.2   97.2
Energy
delivered
w/o program   GWh    4,166 4,036 3,928  4,311  4,306  4,808   5,349
Energy
delivered w/
program       GWh    4,218 4,108 4,019  4,473  4,486  5,074   5,733
Annual
increased
availability  GWh       52    72    91   161     180    266    383
Incremental   ` 000
revenue       USD    1,680 1,451 1,777  2,849  3,963  5,862  8,441
Technical
losses w/o
program (%)   %       16.0  16.0  16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0
Technical
losses w/
program (%)   %       15.9  16.3  15.4   10.4   10.2   10.2   10.3
Supply from
generation
w/o program   GWh    5,632 5,416 5,239  5,981  5,996  6,896   7,809
Supply from
generation
w/ program    GWh    5,566 5,352 5,177  5,911  5,926  6,815   7,717
Savings
through
reduced
technical
losses        GMWh      66    64    62     70     71     81      92
Value of
reduced
technical     ` 000
losses        USD    1,947 1,929 1,557  1,791  1,779  2,387   2,650
Commercial    % of    13.0  12.6  12.2   11.0   10.6    9.0     7.4


                                 30

losses w/o  demand
program
Commercial
losses      % of
w/program   demand  17.5  18.1   18.2     7.0    6.0    4.3    2.5
Reduced
losses      MWh     -161  -191   -204    166    199     233   279
Value of
reduced
commercial  ` 000      -
losses      USD    6,398 -7,211 -7,596  7,699 10,548 12,367 14,795

Net Cash    ` 000      -
Flows       USD    8,571 -8,489 -8,657  6,819 12,072 -4,569 20,157




                                31

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

             Names                        Title          Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Salman Zaheer             Task Team Leader              ECSIE Energy Economist
Jae So                    Financial Analyst             ECSIE Financial
Gohar Abajyan             Financial Analyst             ECSIE Financial

Surekha Jaddoo            Operations Analyst            ECSIE Operations/implemen
                                                              tation

Jann Masterson            Operations Officer            ECSIE Operations/implemen
                                                              tation
Jan Jicha                 Consultant                    ECSIE Power Engineering
Gultekin Yuksel           Procurement Specialist        ECSIE Procurement
Irina Kichigina           Counsel                       LEGEC Legal
Aly Abu-Akeel             Counsel                       LEGEC Legal
Marion Leblanc-Wohrer     Junior                        ECSIE Operations
Josephine Kida            Program Team Assistant        ECSIE Project Assistance
Supervision/ICR
Achilles G. Adamantiades  Consultant                    ECSSD Power Engineering
Alexander Astvatsatryan   Procurement Officer           ECSPS Procurement
Ani Balabanyan            Operations Officer            ECSSD Financial Analysis
Junko Funahashi           Sr. Counsel                   LEGEM Legal
                                                              Financial/Economic
Arthur Kochnakyan         Consultant                    ECSSD Analysis; Author of
                                                              ICR
Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza Sr. Counsel                   LEGEC Legal
Leonid Vanian             Sr. Procurement Specialist    ECSPS Procurement

Arman Vatyan              Sr. Financial Management      ECSPS Financial
                          Specialist                          Management




                                           32

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                               No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY93                                                                                0.51
  FY94                                                                            101.98
  FY95                                                                              53.26
  FY96                                                                              91.52
  FY97                                                                            232.10
  FY98                                                                            174.12
  FY99                                                                              55.23
  FY00                                                                                0.00
  FY01                                                                                0.00
  FY02                                                                                0.00
  FY03                                                                                0.00
  FY04                                                                                0.00
  FY05                                                                                0.00
  FY06                                                                                0.00
  FY07                                                                                0.00
                                Total:                                            708.72
Supervision/ICR
  FY93                                                                                0.00
  FY94                                                                                0.00
  FY95                                                                                0.00
  FY96                                                                                0.00
  FY97                                                                                9.56
  FY98                                                                                0.00
  FY99                                                                              70.31
  FY00                                                68                          189.00
  FY01                                                37                            89.75
  FY02                                                23                            78.17
  FY03                                                39                          117.42
  FY04                                                26                            99.81
  FY05                                                24                            90.99
  FY06                                                17                            79.25
  FY07                                                10                            33.03
                                Total:               244                          857.29
This information came automatically from Operations Portal. According to the PAD, and other
information in the files, the first identification mission was in February 1995, not in FY93.




                                                   33

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not applicable.




                                    34

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not applicable.




                                  35

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR      10




                         REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA



ELECTRICITY

TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT


IDA CREDIT No. 3175-AM




        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT




                              Yerevan, March 2008




10No changes have been made to the Borrower's Implementation Completion Report,
except the deletion of the names of consultants and suppliers.



                                           36

On November 10, 1995 the Government of Japan provided to the Republic of Armenia
Grant No. TF029132 for monitoring, price formation, preparation of structural reforms
and development of investment plans for the Power System of the Republic of Armenia.

"Energyinvest PIO" SI (hereinafter the "PIO") was established by Order No. 119a-GM of
the Minister of Energy of RA on June 21, 1996 for the purpose of implementation of the
Project.

On August 29, 1997 the World Bank provided to the Republic of Armenia an advance
payment in the amount of USD 2 million with the purpose of studying the condition of
the power sector in the Republic of Armenia and development of a project for its
rehabilitation.

The objectives of the Project can be summarized as follows:

      (a)   place the power sector on an efficient, commercial footing;
      (b)   meet the country's electricity requirements in a reliable and cost-effective
            manner;
      (c)   attract private capital to meet the bulk of the capital requirements in the
            sector;
       (d) eliminate quasi-fiscal subsidies provided in the form of non-payments and
            other non-technical losses of electricity, and below cost recovery tariffs;
      (e)   improve measurement and accountability of electricity metering and revenue
            flows between generation, transmission and distribution companies;
      (f)   reduce technical losses in electricity transmission and improve system
            availability.

From the advance payment an amount of USD 602,996.31 was used, of which USD
430,496.31 for Project preparation and USD 172,500.00 for conducting of audits.

On March 30, 1999 Development Credit Agreement No. 3175-AM (hereinafter the
"DCA") was signed for the "Electricity Transmission and Distribution" Project between
the Republic of Armenia and the International Development Association. The DCA was
ratified by the National Assembly of RA on August 25, 1999 and the relevant Legal
Opinion was issued on October 8, 1999. On May 31, 2000 Development Credit
Agreement No. 3175-AM became effective.

Subsidiary Loan Agreement (hereinafter "SLA") with the Project Beneficiary "High
Voltage Electric Network" SCJSC (hereinafter the "HVEC") was signed on November
30, 1999 with the Legal Opinion issued on December 3, 1999. Project accounts for co-
financing were opened in a local bank on November 9, 1999.




                                             37

The Project included the following components:

   · Transmission component financed from the proceeds of the IDA Credit,
      comprising rehabilitation of the selected 220 kV substations, with supply and
      installation of circuit breakers, disconnectors, switchgears, current and voltage
      transformers, relay protection devices, etc;

   · Transmission component financed from the proceeds of the JBIC ODA Loan,
      comprising rehabilitation of the selected 110 kV substations, with supply and
      installation of circuit breakers, disconnectors, switchgears, current and voltage
      transformers, relay protection devices, etc, design of the SCADA/Communication
      System for the power sector of Armenia, implementation of the first stage of
      SCADA/Communication System and procurement of multi-tariff energy meters
      for poor and socially vulnerable population.

The annual financial audit of the Beneficiary companies and the Project account was
conducted first from the advance payment and later from the Credit financing starting
with the fiscal year 1998, by one audit company. The financial audit of the Project
accounts for the years 2005-2007 was conducted by another audit company.

   · On December 16, 1999 Contract No. TD-AUD-01 was signed between the PIO
      and the audit company with the purpose of implementation of the annual financial
      audit of "High Voltage Electric Network" SCJSC, "Armenergo" SCJSC,
      "Yerevan Electric Network" SCJSC and "Central Electric Network" SCJSC for
      the fiscal years 1998 and 1999, as well as the annual financial audit of the Project
      accounts. The Contract Price was USD 300,000, which was paid to the audit
      company by the fact of completion of the works.
   · On December 17, 2000 Contract No. OC-006-AUD2 was signed between the PIO
      and the audit company with the purpose of implementation of the annual financial
      audit of the Project accounts for the fiscal year 2000. The Contract Price was
      USD 11,900, which was paid to the audit company by the fact of completion of
      the works.
   · On July 30, 2001 Contract No. OC-014-AUD3 was signed between the PIO and
      the audit company with the purpose of implementation of the annual financial
      audit of "High Voltage Electric Network" CJSC and "Armenergo" SCJSC for the
      fiscal year 2000, as well as the annual financial audit of the Project accounts for
      the fiscal year 2001. The Contract Price was USD 74,600, which was paid to the
      audit company by the fact of completion of the works.
   · On October 11, 2002 Contract No. OC-015-AUD4 was signed between the PIO
      and the audit company with the purpose of implementation of the annual financial
      audit of "High Voltage Electric Network" CJSC and "Armenergo" SCJSC for the
      fiscal years 2001 and 2002, as well as the annual financial audit of the Project
      accounts for the fiscal year 2002. The Contract Price was AMD 67,200,000,
      which is equivalent to USD 115,172, which was paid to the audit company by the
      fact of completion of the works.



                                           38

    · On October 7, 2003 Contract No. OC-015-AUD4/1 was signed between the PIO
       and the audit company with the purpose of implementation of the annual financial
       audit of "High Voltage Electric Network" CJSC and "Armenergo" SCJSC for the
       fiscal year 2003, as well as the annual financial audit of the Project accounts. The
       Contract Price was AMD 36,400,000, which is equivalent to USD 66,864, which
       was paid to the audit company by the fact of completion of the works.
    · On March 31, 2005 Contract No. OC-015-AUD4/2 was signed between the PIO
       and the audit company with the purpose of implementation of the annual financial
       audit of "High Voltage Electric Network" CJSC and "Electro Power System
       Operator" CJSC for the fiscal years 2004 and 2005, as well as the annual financial
       audit of the Project accounts. The Contract Price was AMD 58,000,000, which is
       equivalent to USD 132,094. The works were carried out only for the fiscal year
       2004 and by the fact of completion of works the amount of AMD 29,000,000,
       which is equivalent to USD 66,047, was paid to the audit company.
    · On June 13, 2006 Contract No. OC-WB-AUD-05 was signed between the PIO
       and the audit company with the purpose of implementation of the annual financial
       audit of "High Voltage Electric Network" CJSC, "Armenergo" CJSC and
       "Electro Power System Operator" CJSC for the fiscal year 2005, as well as the
       annual financial audit of the Project accounts. The Contract Price was USD
       87,138. The financial audit of "Armenergo" CJSC for the period ended December
       31, 2005 was later reduced from the scopes of the works. By the fact of
       completion of works the amount of USD 62,365 was paid to the audit company.
    · On December 4, 2006 Contract No. OC-WB-AUD-06 was signed between the
       PIO and the audit company with the purpose of implementation of the annual
       financial audit of the Project accounts for the fiscal year 2006 as well as for the
       period of January 1-April 30, 2007. The Contract Price was USD 15,000, which
       was paid to the audit company. An amendment was made to Contract No. OC-
       WB-AUD-06, by which the period to be audited was extended to June 30, 2007.

In June 1999 the Government of Armenia (hereinafter the "GoA") in accordance with the
common strategy of transfer of the country to the market economy and law in force (Law
"About plan of privatization of state property of the RA during years 1999-2000"
approved by the Parliament of the RA on January 17,1999) decided to privatize four
Electricity Distribution Companies (EDCs) by a competitive international tender.
Privatization of the distribution companies was one of the key elements of "Measures for
Financial Rehabilitation of the Energy Sector" approved by Government Decree No. 551
(December 2, 1997).

Taking into account the privatization of the distribution companies, the Project scopes
were revised and agreed with the World Bank and the package of documents on the new
scopes of the Project was signed by the Minister of Energy of RA in December, 1999.

All the effectiveness conditions of the Credit, except the selection of the consultant, had
been fulfilled by December 31, 1999, that was the deadline for the Credit Agreement to
become effective. The deadline was extended until May 31, 2000 in order to ensure
selection of the consultant on procurement and implementation of the Project by that time.



                                            39

The Credit became effective on May 31, 2000 and in the result of the conducted tender a
contract was signed a consulting firm on September 25, 2000 with an estimated cost of
USD 518,191. By the fact of completion of works the amount of USD 423,316.45 was
paid to the consulting firm.

The Project Board (hereinafter the "PB"), the task of which is to supervise the process of
implementation of the "Electricity Transmission and Distribution" Project and to take
decisions on the most essential issues related to it, was established by Decree No. 765 of
the GoA dated December 22, 1999.

A World Bank (hereinafter the "WB") mission, consisting of technical and procurement
specialists, visited Armenia in September, 2000 and reviewed the possibility of
conducting one tender for all the 220 kV substations (Shahumyan-2, Eghegnadzor,
Zovuni, Marash, Ararat-2, Lichk) proposed to be covered by the Project upon successful
completion of the privatization process.

In December, 2001, during a WB mission in Yerevan, it was agreed to rehabilitate only
4 transmission substations 220 kV (Eghegnadzor, Shahumyan-2, Marash, Zovuni)
because the privatization of the distribution companies was not completed.

The revised bid documents for rehabilitation of four 220 kV substations were approved
by the Beneficiary, the Ministry of Energy of RA (July 7, 2002), and the WB (August 9,
2002). The tender was announced on the UNDB website on August 16, 2002 and in the
local newspaper "Republic of Armenia" on August 20, 2002. The Contract with the
successful bidder was signed on April 30, 2003.

      1.    On April 19, 2002 the PIO prepared and submitted for the approval of the PB
            the proposal for amendment and reallocation under the Project scope. The
            approval of the PB was given on May 8, 2002. The relevant letter on the
            proposed amendment was sent to the WB on June 21, 2002. The WB gave its
            no-objection on October 31, 2002.

      2.    On June 26, 2002 the Closing Date of the Credit was extended by the WB until
            December 31, 2002.

During the WB mission in Armenia on October 28-November 5, 2002 (based on the
results of privatization completed) the possibility of rehabilitation of 4 additional
substations was discussed.

      3.    The PIO prepared the package of amendments to the DCA, where 4 additional
            220 kV substations - Shinuhair, Ashnak, Lichk and Ararat-2 - were included.

The package of bidding documents for 4 substations was approved by Ministry of Energy
of RA on December 27, 2002 and by the WB on February 27, 2003. The tender was
announced on the UNDB website on March 2, 2003 and in the local newspaper




                                             40

"Republic of Armenia" on March 4, 2003. The deadline for submission of bids was May
14, 2003. The Contract with the successful bidder was signed on August 18, 2003.

One of the Project Beneficiaries - "Armenergo" CJSC, by the Decree No. 779-A of the
GoA dated May 2, 2003, was reorganized into "Electro Power System Operator" CJSC.

     4.    On May 29, 2003 the WB gave its no-objection to the amendments in the DCA
           in the part of the "Electro Power System Operator" CJSC and making it a
           Project Beneficiary, as well as to extension of the Closing Date of the Project.

     5.    Per request of the Armenian side submitted to the WB on August 1, 2003, on
           August 12, 2003 the WB made reallocation in the components of the Credit
           that was required since the price of the two contracts signed with the
           suppliers was in Euro and there had been abrupt change in the exchange rate
           of Euro - USD - SDR.

The issues of making amendments in the DCA, reorganization of "Armenergo" CJSC,
establishment of "Electro Power System Operator" CJSC (hereinafter the "EPSO") and
making it a Project Beneficiary, were discussed during the WB mission in May, 2004. It
was required to sign a SLA with EPSO, only after which it would be possible to start the
process of procurement of hardware and software for the Operator that was envisaged
under the Project. The SLA was signed between the Ministry of Finance and Economy of
RA and the EPSO on May 12, 2005, and the Implementation and Service Agreement
(hereinafter the "ISA") was signed between the EPSO and the PIO on May 16, 2005.

It was also required to make amendments in the SLA signed with the "HVEN" on
November 30, 1999, related to alteration of the scopes of the Project from rehabilitation
of 4 substations to 8 substations. This alteration required amendment in the part of
recalculation of the amount of the SLA, extension of the deadline of the Project and the
SLA.

The following Contracts were signed and the following works were conducted
within the scopes of the Project:

1.      On June 30, 2003 Contract No. WB-W/EC-001 was signed between the PIO and
a local firm Joint Venture for Rehabilitation of the Building of the Energy Regulating
Commission of RA. The Credit amount allocated for this component of the Project was
USD 100,000.00. The Contract amount was AMD 69,264,000.00. It was planned to
complete the works under the Contract on November 16, 2003, and the actual
Completion Date was November 29, 2003. By the fact of completion of works, the
Contractor was paid AMD 57,720,000.00, which is equivalent to USD 100,967.94.

2.      Two Contracts were signed for one of the Beneficiaries of the Project - EPSO.

        · Contract WB-G/EPSO-004 for Supply and Installation of Hardware was
           signed between the PIO and a supplier on September 19, 2005. The Contract



                                            41

           Price was USD 110,122.00. The envisaged works on supply and installation of
           the hardware, the relevant equipment and LAN were completed in due time
           and the relevant Acceptance Certificate was signed on March 2, 2006. By the
           fact of completion of works, the Contractor was paid USD 104,179.20.

       · Contract No. WB-G/EPSO-005-2 for Supply and Installation of Specialized
           Software and Training was signed between the PIO and a supplier on October
           12, 2006. The Contract Price was Euro 124,990.00. The works under the
           Contract were completed and the relevant Acceptance Act was signed at the
           end of November, 2006.

3.     Two Contracts for Supply and Installation of High Voltage Substation Equipment
were signed in the part of the works envisaged under the DCA for another Beneficiary of
the Project - HVENC.

       · Contract Agreement No. WB/G-HV-002 was signed with between the PIO
           and a supplier on April 30, 2003. The envisaged works included replacement
           of 220 and 110 kV power circuit breakers, disconnect switches, current
           transformers at 220 kV substations Shahumyan-2, Marash, Zovuni and
           Eghegnadzor, as well as replacement of the sets of HV transmission line main
           protection equipment with single-phase automatic re-closure function on 220
           kV transmission lines Vardenis, Shamb, Vayq and Getap and replacement of
           10 kV switchgear on 220 kV substation Shahumyan-2. The Contract Price was
           Euro 9,189,270.00. The original Completion Date of the Contract was
           December 31, 2004, but due to objective reasons it was extended until
           October 31, 2005, when the actual completion was achieved. Quantities of
           the installed circuit breakers, disconnect switches, current transformers and all
           other equipment are given in Table 1.11

       · Contract Agreement No. WB/G-HV-003 was signed between the PIO and a
           supplier on August 18, 2003. The envisaged works included replacement of
           220 and 110 kV power circuit breakers, disconnect switches, current
           transformers at 220 kV substations Shinuhair, Ashnak, Lichk and Ararat-2, as
           well as replacement of sets of HV transmission line main protection
           equipment with single-phase automatic re-closure function on 220 kV
           transmission lines Ashnak-1, Ashnak-2, Ani, Areg, Erebuni, Hakhtanak. The
           Contract Price was Euro 5,481,918.00. The original Completion Date of the
           Contract was December 31, 2004, but due to objective reasons it was extended
           until May 31, 2005, when the actual completion was achieved. By the fact of
           completion of works, the Contractor was paid Euro 5,470,742.60. Quantities
           of the installed circuit breakers, disconnect switches, current transformers and
           all other equipment are given in Table 2.



11Tables 1-5 referred to in Annex 7 are filed in IRIS in the Project Files.



                                             42

During the IDA Supervision Mission dated May 9-17, 2005, the PIO informed the WB
specialists that about USD 500,000 will remain undisbursed in the credit after making
payments under all the existing and committed contracts. The mission encouraged the
PIO to prepare, in consultation with HVENC and the Ministry of Energy, a proposal for
the use of the remaining undisbursed funds and to submit it to IDA for review. The
HVENC submitted to the PIO its proposal for usage of the funds and it was decided to
apply the Limited International Bidding procurement method for "Supply and Installation
of Relay Protection and DPLC Equipment and 110 kV/220 kV Surge Arresters. Contract
Agreement No. WB/G-HV-004 was signed between the PIO and a supplier on July 28,
2006. The envisaged works included design, manufacture, testing, delivery, installation
and commissioning of two sets of HV transmission line protection with single-phase
automatic re-closure function with related digital power line carrier (DPLC) equipment
for 220 kV transmission lines Sipan and Musaler, outgoing from the Armenian Nuclear
Power Plant to substations Shahumyan-2 and Marash and supply of 12 units of 110 kV
surge arresters and 12 units of 220 kV surge arresters (overvoltage limiters) for
installation in Substation Shahumyan-2. The Contract Price is Euro 557,234.00. The
initial deadline of completion of the Contract was December 31, 2006, but due to
objective reasons it was extended until May 31, 2007, when the actual completion was
achieved. By the fact of completion of works, the Contractor was paid Euro 548,419.16,
of which Euro 2,208.55 was paid by the Government of the Republic of Armenia.
Quantities of the installed surge arresters, capacitive current transformers, line traps,
protection and DPLC Equipment are given in Table 3.

The works carried out under the Contract Agreements can be summarized as
follows:

Partial rehabilitation of 8 220 kV substations was carried out under the "Electricity
Transmission and Distribution" Project financed by the World Bank. The works were
implemented by two tenders.

The above-mentioned 220 kV substations were constructed in the years 1960-1970 and
the equipment installed there was depreciated both physically and morally. The operation
of air and oil circuit breakers that were installed at the substations was very difficult. It
was necessary to have equipment to ensure the air pressure for air circuit breakers, and
high quality oil was required for oil circuit breakers. They were highly explosive and
dangerous from the aspect of operation. The disconnectors often broke during operation,
the gripping jaws went out of order. The service life of the majority of current
transformers had expired.

In order to ensure proper operation of the above-mentioned equipment it was necessary to
install additional equipment (air pressure compressor plant, oil measuring equipment,
reserve oil in big quantities), to purchase additional materials, and make new investments,
to keep a big operating staff, ensure additional self-consumption electricity, etc. It
became difficult to operate the equipment. Consumers were often deprived of electricity,



                                             43

it took a longer time to eliminate breakdowns of the equipment, this resulting in
complaints from the consumers.

In order to eliminate the above-mentioned problems, it was necessary to start the works
on rehabilitation of 220 kV substations, which became possible with the help of the
financing provided by the World Bank.

The new equipment installed at the substations, as compared with the old equipment, is
much better in its technical-economical characteristics.

    · the SF6 gas circuit breakers make it possible significantly to reduce the
        operational expenses, their service life is much longer than that of the old ones,
        there cannot be any wrong switching-on or switching-off, failures of this
        equipment are minimized;
    · the newly installed electrically-operated SF6 gas circuit breakers ensure increased
        reliability in the safety of the staff operating the equipment,
    · the newly installed circuit breakers have the function of electrical-mechanical
        blocking that prevents wrong switching-on (switching off of the disconnector
        when the circuit breaker is on),
    · in case of failure, the microprocessor relay devices newly installed on overhead
        lines, quickly switch-off the damaged line by means of DPLC equipment,
    · the DPLC equipment ensures not only transmission of relay protection signals to
        the other end of the line, but also telephone communication and data exchange.

European quality equipment with high quality technical characteristics is currently
installed at the 220 kV substations that are partially rehabilitated by means of financing
from the Credit provided by the World Bank. The rehabilitated substations are reliable in
operation, they favor increase of the qualification of the operating staff, and ensure
smooth and reliable energy supply to the Power Sector of the Republic of Armenia.

Within the framework of Development Credit Agreement No. 3175-AM and with co-
financing from the Government of Armenia, for the purpose of rehabilitation of 220 kV
substations (Contract No.WB-G/HV-001 and Contract No.WB-G/HV-002) 2 tenders
were launched for implementation of civil works. These tenders included works on
dismounting of the old equipment at the substations and installation of foundations for
new equipment. The financing was provided by the Beneficiary of the Project - "HVEN"
CJSC. One of the tenders was for manufacturing of foundations, the other - for
dismounting of the old equipment and installation of foundations for new equipment.

The winner of the tender for manufacturing of foundations was a local company, and the
amount of the Contract signed with it (Contract No. LF/HV-002, dated December 29,
2003) was AMD 179,9 million. By the fact of completion of the works the Contractor
was paid AMD 175.8 million, equivalent to USD 325.4 thousand.

Foundations manufactured and supplied under Contract No LF/HV-002, by substations
and types, are shown in Tables 4 and 5.



                                                44

The tender for the civil works was won by a local Joint Venture with whom the following
two Contracts were signed:

    1.    Contract No. LF/HV-003-1 "Dismounting of old equipment at 220 kV
          substations Egegnadzor, Marash, Zovuni and Shahumyan-2 and implementation
          of civil works for installation of the new equipment". The Contract price was
          AMD 272.2 million. By the fact of completion of the works the Contractor was
          paid AMD 270.5 million, equivalent to USD 549.1 thousand.

    2.    Contract No. LF/HV-003-2 "Dismounting of old equipment at 220 kV
          substations Ashnak, Shinuhair, Lichk and Ararat-2 and implementation of civil
          works for installation of the new equipment". The Contract price was AMD
          88.4 million. By the fact of completion of the works the Contractor was paid
          AMD 89.9 million, equivalent to USD 178.6 thousand.

Within the frames of Contract No. WB-G/HV-001 and Contract No. WB-G/HV-002 for
rehabilitation of 220 kV substations, contracts were signed for dismounting of old
equipment, manufacture of foundations for installation of the new equipment, installation
and connection of control cables, installation of relay protection panels, adjustment and
other works.

Proceeds from the co-financing were used for launching another tender for civil works ­
Tender No. WB-G/HV-004 for "Supply and Installation of Relay Protection and DPLC
equipment and 110 kV / 220 kV Surge Arresters". The tender was won by a local
contractor, with whom Contract No. LF/HV-006-01, for the amount of AMD 22,6 million
was signed on November 17, 2006. The Contract envisaged dismounting of old surge
arresters and coupling capacitors, as well as their foundations, manufacture and
installation of new foundations, installation of the supplied surge arresters and capacitive
current transformers, and DPLC equipment. Initially the deadline of completion of the
Contract was January 15, 2007, but because of extension of the contract with the
international supplier, this Contract was extended until May 22, 2007, when the actual
completion of works was achieved. By the fact of completion of the works the Contractor
was paid AMD 21.5 million, equivalent to USD60.3 thousand. Manufactured foundations
by substations are shown in Table 5.

Comments from "Energyinvest PIO" SI on the Bank's ICR:

In respect to the Implementation Completion Report, because of short time we look
through and have no comments on the contents, but in:

    1. Annex 1, table (b) Financing, line Borrower (HVEN) should be written US$1.23
        million instead of US$1.11 million (1.116 is civil works and 0.113 is design
        works financed by HVEN, for a total of US$1.23 million.




                                             45

2. Annex 1, table (b) Financing, line JBIC is written 43.26, but JBIC Loan of 5399
   million JYen calculated by the World Bank rate as of 31.05.2008 (1 US$=104.64
   JYen) is US$51.6 million.
3. Annex 10, line 16, should be written Hrazdan HPP instead of Atarbekian HPP.




                                      46

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

JBIC:

The Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) signed a loan with the Republic of
Armenia on February 18, 1999, for 5,399 million JPY. By constructing a power
transmission and distribution network covering the entire territory of Armenia (upgrading
of substations and load-dispatching offices, improved communication equipment and
rehabilitation of transmission and distribution network, and the installation of
consumption meters) this project will improve the stability and reliability of the power
supply. Moreover, by aiming to reduce power transmission losses and increase the power
charges collection rate, the project aims to strengthen the management foundation of the
power transmission and distribution companies and improve Armenia's balance of
international payments by more efficient use of energy resources. The proceeds of the
loan will be used for civil works, procurement of required electricity transmission
equipment and consulting services (construction supervision, etc.).

When we signed the Loan Agreement, we assumed that loan disbursement period will be
six (6) years after the effectuation of the Loan Agreement. Because we declared the
effectuation of the Loan Agreement on October 20, 1999, the initial loan disbursement
period expired on October 20, 2005. There was little progress to the project
implementation at the time on October 20, 2005; however, Government of Japan and
JBIC decided to extend the loan disbursement period for five (5) years further, namely
updated period will expire on October 20, 2010.

We can mention several reasons for this project implementation delay as follows:

    · Originally, the consultant to be hired by World Bank was supposed to conduct
        Detail Design to each substation including 110kV and 220kV. However, it was
        decided that World Bank would hire the consultant which conduct Detail Design
        to 220kV substations, on the other hand JBIC would hire another consultant
        which conduct Detail Design to 110kV substations in order to expedite the project
        implementation. In short, it took plenty of time for the scope demarcation
        between World Bank and JBIC.
    · We have experienced the project implementation institution change many times
        due to electric sector reform in Armenia. Especially, we had to pay much
        attention to share transaction of "Electric Network of Armenia" from "Midland
        Resources Holding Ltd.," to "Interenergo B.V." (RAO UES), because there was
        some possibility that the contract of the share transaction would violate the
        obligation of the Borrower of our Loan Agreement. It took plenty of time that we
        receive satisfactory legal documents.
    · Because Armenian side including Energyinvest PIO, Ministry of Energy, Ministry
        of Finance and other related parties were not used to International Competitive
        Bidding, so it took lots of time to evaluate the bid. And sometime, some
        politician intervened in the evaluation process. Finally, the bid of rehabilitation of
        110kV substations became re-bid.



                                              47

Now we would like to inform you updated information of the project on (1) SCADA
Communications System and (2) Rehabilitation of 110kV substations as follows:
With respect to SCADA Communications System, the contract has been signed and the
advance payment was disbursed to the contractor in April 2008. Now it is in the design
stage by the contractor. Contract amount is 1,331 million JPY.

With respect to the rehabilitation of 110kV substations, contract negotiation has already
been finished and now we are waiting the approval by Government of Armenia. We
think that the contract will be signed in July 2008. Contract amount will be about 3,560
million JPY.

With respect to the project objective, please see attached press release (3) Objectives and
Outline of the Project.

At last, thank you very much for sending ICR of the Project, this is very helpful for us to
continue project supervision and monitoring for JBIC portion. We hope these comments
will be helpful to you.

USAID: No comments received.




                                             48

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


  · Development Credit Agreement
  · Project Appraisal Document
  · Annual Audit Reports of Project Accounts, HVEN and EPSO
  · Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) and Project Status Reports (PSRs)
  · Project Files (Correspondence)
  · Quarterly Progress Reports
  · "From Crisis to Stability in the Armenian Power Sector: Lessons Learned from
     Armenia's Energy Reform Experience", World Bank Working Paper No 74
  · "Power's Promise" Electricity Reforms in Eastern Europe and Central Asia,
     World Bank Working Paper No. 40
  · Payments Statistics of the Power Sector of Armenia, PSRC, 2003-2006
  · Power Sector Service Quality Indicators, PSRC, 2006
  · Armenia Metering Improvement Monitoring Program September 12, 2002, PA
     Government Services, Inc.
  · Final Project Completion Report, December 12, 2005, prepared by procurement
     and implementation consultants concerning rehabilitation of 4 substations:
     Eghegnadzor, Shahumian-2, Zovuni and Marash.
  · Borrower's Implementation Completion Report, including Annexes, March 4,
     2008.




                                        49

Annex 10 Transmission Substations

                               Transmission Substations
    No. Name of Substation                             Rehabilitation financed by
    1     220/110/35 kV Eghegnadzor                    WB
    2     220/110/10 kV Shahumyan-2                    WB
    3     220/110/35 kV Shinuhair                      WB
    4     220/110/10 kV Zovuni                         WB
    5     220/110/10 kV Marash                         WB
    6     220/110/35 kV Ashnak                         WB
    7     220/110/35 kv Alaverdi-2                     KfW (completed)
    8     220/110/35 kV Ararat-2                       WB
    9     220/110/35 kV Lichk                          WB
    10    220/110/10 kV Vanadzor 2                     KfW (completed)
    11    220/35/10 kV Kamo                            KfW (completed)
    12    220/10 kV Hakhtanak                          Did not participate in program
    13    220/110/10 kV Gjumri-2                       KfW
    14    Open switch-gear 220kV Arm. NPP              Did not participate in program
    15    Open switch-gear 220kV Hrazdan TPP           Did not participate in program
    16    Open switch-gear 220kV Hrazdan HPP           Did not participate in program
    17    Open switch-gear 220 kV Spandarian HPP Did not participate in program
    18    Open switch-gear 220 kV Shamb HPP            Did not participate in program

Note: The underlined substations are the four substations proposed in the original scope.
The remaining substations indicated for WB financing are the additional substations
proposed when the distribution company was purchased by a private investor and the
distribution funds were reallocated to the transmission component. The substations
indicated as not participating in the program are those that were built more recently or
renovated in the last 15 years.




                                           50

