Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9245
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
(CREDIT 1128-SL)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performarce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Name of Currency - Leone
1980      US$1.00 = 0.9528
1981      US$1.00 = 0.8639
1982      US$1.00 = 0.8078
1983      US$1.00 = 0.5958
1984      US$1.00 = 0.3984
1985      US$1.00 = 0.2114
1986      US$1.00 = 0.1191
Abbreviations
ACRE -    Adaptive Crop Research and Extension
ADB  -    African Development Bank
ADF  -    African Development Fund
ASSP -    Agriculture Sector Support Project
BADEA-    Banque Arabe pour le Develop-ent Economique en Afrique
CARE -    Cooperative American Relief Ererywhere
EIADP-    Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development Project
FAO  -    Food and Agriculture Organization
FFB  -    Fresh Fruit Bunch
GOSL -    Government of Sierra Leone
IADP -    Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IDA  -    International Development Association
IFAD -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPAM -    Institute of Public Administration and Management
MAF  -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MANR -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MDEP -    Ministry of Development and Economic Planning
mOW  -    Ministry of Works
MNR  -    Ministry of Natural Resources
MPP  -    Model Production Programme
NAPMU-    Northern Area Project Management Unit
NIADP-    Northern Integrated Agricultural Development Project
NUC  -    Njala University College
PEMSU-    Planning, Evaluation, and Monitoring Services Unit
PESU -    Project Evaluation and Services Unit
PFP  -    Policy Framework Paper
RMWA -    Regional Mission in Western Africa (World Bank Office)
RRRS -    Rokupr Rice Research Station
SAR  -    Staff Appraisal Report
SLPMB-    Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
SMP  -    Seed Multiplication Project
SMU  -    Seed Multiplication Unit
T&V  -    Training and Visit
UNDP -    United Nazions Development Programme
VCDU -    Village Cattle Development Units
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofrc of Dirctot.Cnral
Opmatrw Evakiateon
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sierra Leone Northern Integrated
Agricultural Development Proiect II (Credit 1128-SL)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Sierra Leone - Northern Integrated
Agricultural Development Project II (Credit 1128-SL)" prepared by the
Africa Regional Office.   No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
(Credit 1128-SL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   .....................................                        i
Evaluation   Summary  ......................................
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVF.
Project Identity .............................        1
Background .1
Project Objectives and Description.                   4
Project Design and Organization.                      5
Project Implementation.                               8
Project Results .11
Project Sustainability .13
Bank Performance .14
Borrower Performance ........... .............    15
Project Relationship .16
Consulting Services .16
Project Documentation and Daa .17
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .18
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .19
Project Timetable .20
Disbursements .20
Project Implementation .21
Project Costs and Financing .22
Project Impact.
Direct Benefits .23
Economic Impact .24
Financial Impact .25
Studies .26
Status of Covenants .26
Use of Bank Resources ........................
Staff Inputs .27
Missions .27
Map of the Project Area
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
(CREDIT-1128 SL)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion deport (PCR) for the Northern
Integrated Agricultural Development Project II (NIADP II) for Sierra Leone,
for which Credit 1128-SL in the amount of USS 8.5 million was approved on
April 7, 1981. The NIADP II Credit closed on June 30, 1987. Disbursements
under the Credit were completed on May 31, 1988 with full recovery of the
Special Account. The unused balance of USS 5.43 million was cancelled on
July 7, 1988. Since the suspension of disbursements to Sierra Leone in
early 1987, no further supervision work has been undertaken.
No PCR for the project has been prepared by the Borrower. This
PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the Africa
Region. Parts I and III were sent to the Borrower for comment with a
request to provide a Review of the project from the Borrower's point of
view, but none was received.
Preparation of the PCR, started in the third quarter of FY90, is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, Development Credit
Agreement, available supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda. Disbursements to Sierra
Leone remain suspended.



ill
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
(Credit-1128 SL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Obiectives
1.01      Following Sierra Leone's declining traditiolLal exports, a
rapidly rising budget deficit and food import bill, and wide income
disparities, the Government around the mid 1970s proclaimed agriculture to
be a priority sector in the country's economic development. New overall
objectives for the sector included an ambitious 5.4 percent real growth,
self-sufficiency in rice, improved nutrition, and increased production of
major export crops.  The selected vehicle for the development and growth of
the agriculture sector was the integrated agricultural development project
(IADP) approach. In Sierra Leone this approach tended to be narrow and
area specific with little emphasis given to reducing sector inefficiency.
Consequently, the IADPs focussed more on production activity and essential
infrastructure and less on the policy and incentive framework within
agriculture.
1.02      Prolect Obiectives. The main objective of the Northern
Integrated Agricu'.tural Development Project Phase II (NIADP II) was to
increase food production and farm incomes by expanding assistance to all
farmers that had been assisted under the Phase I project in the Northern
Province, and to introduce fruit tree cultivation and promote the use of
livestock. No new institutions were to be set up and no change in existing
cropping patterns was envisaged. Increases in productivity were to be
obtained through the use of high yielding varieties, higher input intensity
as prescribed in the recommended technical packages, and considerably
stronger extension surport. NIADP II was a multipurpose project that had
the primary objectives of increasing, over a five year period, food
production and farm incomes begun under the Phase I project of the Northern
Province. The development of upland and swamp rice, groundnut, and maize
was to be extended to reach farmers within an additional area of 8,500 km2,
and fruit tree cultivation and livestock improvement introduced. The
project also aimed at strengthening sector institutions, and constructing
village wells, feeder roads and chiefdom tracks. 1/
2.   Implementation Experience
2.01      Project implementation overall was dominated by Sierra Leone's
serious financial crisis. Inadequate counterpart funding, mismanagement of
procurement, and suspension of disbursements had a profound bearing on the
1/ Chiefdom tracks were crude access roads constructed at the time that
local governments were headed by village/community Chiefs.



iv
inability of the project to fully meet its objectives and physical targets.
Among project specific factors that hampered performance were: shortages of
seedlings for oil palm. citrus, coffee and rice; weak credit and input
supply systems; absence of a strong adaptive research component; generally
weak technical packages, in some cases dle to insufficient testing at the
farm level, and in others due to the state of technical development of the
packages themselves; and shortag.s of fuel.
3.   Results
3.01      The overall project outcome has been unsatisfactory with the
project unable to meet the SAR's physical targets. There were large
shortfalls in several areas of crop development, and in the construction
programes for roads and wells. Progress in institutional development and
training was generally poor. The contribution of agricultural research,
particularly adaptive research, was negl'3ible. Agricultural extension in
comparison showed significant improvemer. and this was reflected in the
relatively large numbers of farmers who were made aware of extension
messages. The translation of these extension messages into higher yields
and incomes was inhibited by constraints on input supply, availability of
credit, and poor mobility.
3.02      More specifically, except for swamp rice, all other food crop
SAR targets, and those for tree crops were not met. While livestock health
training was retained, the livestock development component had to be
discontinued. The targets for village wells and roads were alsc not
fulfilled and had to be scaled down. As was the case in the Ea.tern
Integrated Agricultural Development Project (EIADP III), the implementation
of which overlapped with that of NIADP II, a suggested and more costly new
design of village wells in divergence with SAR specifications impeded
progress of the village wells program. In the case of feeder roads, while
new construction was justified, there was also the equally strong
requirement that roads already constructed be adequately maintained.
Because of the growing constrain- on financial resources and the poor state
and neglect of roads already constructed, a trade-off had to be made
between continued additional construction of feeder roads on the one hand
and their proper maintenance on the other. In the case of agricultural
services, the quality of extension staff was improved, and some progress
made in the area of commercial accounting training. Research remained
weak, and so did training for middle and higher level management staff.
4.   Sustainability
4.01      The project closed almost three years ago.  No PCR mission took
place on completion and no PCR was prepared by the Borrower. Except for a
recent visit by staff to selected project sites in connection with the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP), and some communication with Government
officials and donors, there has been no feedback on project developments
per se. Based on these accounts, there are indications that the Bank-
supported IADPs in Sierra Leone have been regarded as a failure with little
impact on agricultural production. It is, therefore, unlikely that the
project is sustainable. The integration of IADP staff into the regional
MANR structures has proved difficult and, in spite of an encouraging start
made toward this end as project completion approached, the anticipated



v
integration has not been achieved. The high visibility of enclave projects
such as the ADPs and the power that came to be associated with them
hampered the planned integration. Resentment by existing MANR staff toward
former IADP staff who had received relatively good training and enjoyed
better remuneration than themselves prevented integration. Furthermore,
the MANR is reported to be saddled with a budget that is used almost in its
entirety to financing staff salaries which are about seven months in
arrear.
4.02      Sierra Leone's financial and economic si.uation remains
critical. The prospects for recovery of project activities in the near
future, thus, remain bleak. Moreso, when the macro and sector framework
continues to be burdened with distortions that would impinge on sector
efficiency. The project could have contributed considerably to improved
incentives within the sector through ensuring that pricing policies were
determined in relation to border pricing.
5.   Fitdings and Lessons Learned
5.01      The main finding of the NIADP II project experience is that the
country's macro and financial crisis was a major obstacle to project
success.  It is unrealistic to expect projects, and certainly complex
integrated agricultural development projects, to succeed in a macroeconomic
environment that is unstable and saddled with distortions in macro prices,
particularly the exchange rate. At the project level, the main lesson is
to design projects that are simple to implement. Less ambitious projects
embodying relatively simple designs in a country and sector characterized
by serious macro and financial constraints, and aggravated by limited
absorptive capacity and poor or non-existing infrastructure are likely to
be far more successful in achieving their objectives and contributing to
longer term development and growth. This is particularly true in instances
where the record of macroeconomic management has been poor and continues to
deteriorate.
5.02      Other lessons for relevant projects include:  (i) the importance
of maintaining a policy and incentive framework that is conducive to
project success and sector efficiency; (ii) the need to take i:lto account
not only project related risks, but also those that may have political
implications, and which are, in nature, macro and sectoral; (iii) the
benefit of maximizing the number of staff trained through courses and on-
the-job training so that training continues to be consolidated and
disseminated long after the project has closed; (iva progressively reduced
dependence of indigenous staff on teaching and demon!tration by experts
financed under the project; (v) the importance of preparing initial
assessments for the demand and supply of essential inputs, and contingency
plans should the situation alter, particularly with respect to shortfalls
in supply; (vi) the merit in adapting proven design and implementation
techniques to the country's socioeconomic conditions where the latter are
insufficiently studied and understood. It should also be noted that in
spite of the relatively large numbers of farmers that oere exposed to
extension messages, these messages could not be translated into higher
productivity and incomes. The primary reason for this was the difficulty
in obtaining inputs and credit on the one hand, and poor mobility and
infrastructure on the other. Efficient extension without the adequate and



vi
timely supply of inputs is clearly insufficient to bring about sustained
growth and higher incomes. A long-term commitment to higher agricultural
productivity and sustainability also hinges on the benefit to the producer
at farm-or mill-gate. In NIADP II, while farmers and women displayed
keenness to participate in the project, the logistics of input supply and
credit dampened the fruits of their effort. Future projects should ensure
that farmers and women do not become disheartened, and continue to engage
in the project activities designed to promote their economic well-being.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
CRLDIT 1128-SL
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Name                 Northern Integrated Agricultural Development
Project II
Credit Number        1128-SL
RVP Unit             Africa Region
Country              Sierra Leone
Sector               Agriculture
2.   Background
2.01      Sierra Leone with a total area of 72,000 km2 has an estimated
population of 3.9 million, as of mid-1989, growing at an annual average
rate of 2.3 percent. Its per capita income in 1988/89 was estimated at SDR
160, fifty percent lower in real terms compared to 1979/80. Th_ country
has good soil and climatic conditions and is also rich in minerals. It is
strongly dualistic with a small modern mining sector which is a major
source of government revenue and export earnings, and a large traditional
agriculture sector that accounts for one third of GDP and employs 75
percent of the labor force. Agricultural productivity and yields are low.
Fertilizer is believed to be used by only three percent of the farmers, a
fifth of whom are said to depend on primitive tools and implements for
cultivation. The resource base, including fishing, if well developed and
managed, can lessen Sierra Leone's dependence on diamond mining and export,
promote economic diversification, enhance agricultural growth, and increase
employment and rural incomes.
2.02      As of June 1982, the Government had no official development
strategy, although agriculture, education and health were emphasized as
priority sectors in economic policy statements. A clear focus on the
agriculture sector in its overall strategy for development was for the
first time explicitly outlined in the 1974675-78/79 National Development
Plan. 2/ Its main objectives were accelerated economic growth, balanced
regional development, and equitable income distribution. Given serious
financial and institutional constraints the Plan proved to be overly
ambitious. Specific sector development objectives had called for a 5.4
percent growth in agriculture, self sufficiency in rice, the staple crop,
cultivated by 80 percent of the farmers, improved nutrition, and increased
2J Compared to the late 1960s, agriculture became a priority sector with
its share in the development budget increasing from four percent in 1969 to
32 percent in 1978.



2
production of major export crops. 3/ The expansion of agricultural
production through integrated agricultural development projects (IADPs)
with focus on strengthened sector support services, improved research and
planning, and a more effective Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MANR) was to be the hallmark of the sector strategy. 4/ It was
expected that, by the mid-1980s, 30 percent .. the country would be covered
by IADPs.
2.03      Past Performance.  Agriculture's potential and performance over
the years hap been curtailed by poor incentives, excessive taxation of
export crops, low budgetary allocations, and weak institutions and riral
infrastructure. Sierra Leone's serious and prolonged financial constraints
were largely responsible for the sector's progressive deterioration during
the last fifteen years. This contrasts sharply with the impressive
economic growth during the first decade of the country's independence
starting in 1962. In fact, no economic growth took place in Sierra Leone
in the 1980s. The decade was also characterized by high inflation which
peaked at 170 percent in 1986/87. With sharp oil price increases in the
1970s, an overvalued Leone, a rapidly rising import bill, steady depletion
of exploitable gold, diamond, and iron reserves, Sierra Leone's terms of
trade declined and were further aggravated by reduced prices of coffee and
cocoa. 5/ But the more serious and underlying cause of the economic
decline was weak economic management and lack of budgetary control that
progressively worst:.ed with time. Government spending on rice and
petroleum subsidies accounted for 10 percent of recurrent expenditures in
1973/74 and absorbed more than one-third of the revenue increase. For
fertilizer, and chemicals and sprayers for tree crops, subsidies were of
the order of 50 percent and 100 percent, respectively making them a further
imposition on the already difficult budgetary situation.
2.04      Efforts at Economic Recovery.  Attempts have been made, on
several occasions, to resolve, together with the Bank and Fund, Sierra
Leone's dire financial situation. A number of financial arrangements
proposed with the Fund in the last ten years include: a stand-by
arrangement in 1979, an extended facility in 1981, a drawing under the
3/ Having been self-sufficient in rice until the early 1950s, Sierra Leone
became a net importer with rice imports averaging 50,000 tons annually for
the next twenty years.
4/ A lack of coordination among sector institutions, for example, MAF, MNR,
SLPMB, etc. had made the development and operation of consistent sector
policies difficult.
5/ Production and productivity of coffee and cocoa, Sierra Leone's two
major export crops had been adversely affected not only by an overvalued
Leone, but also by pricing and marketing policies detrimental to their
progress. First, the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB) held the
monopoly on the marketing and export of both crops, and second, the
producer price for both was set at unremunerative levels, not to exceed 65
percent of the FOB price for coffee and 59 percent for cocoa. Each crop
was subject to an export tax of 30 percent, and export proceeds from both
were used to finance the import and distribution of rice.



3
compensatory financing facility in 1983, a stand-by arrangement in 1984,
and an arrangement under the structural adjustmernt facility together with a
stand-by arrangement in 1986. By and large, most of these arrangements
were soon rendered inoperative due to inadequate implementation. Since
1986, yet more attempts have been made to draw up a workable adjustment
program, but the country has been unable to fulfill its financial
obligations under these. At end 1980, the country was behind in its debt
service payments on eight Bank loans and IDA credits in the amount of USS
1.03 million, and since early 1987 accumulated arrears to the Bank led to
its being placed on a nonaccrual status. Starting early 1989, a series of
adjustment measures was implemented. The exchange rate was further
depreciated and private trade in coffee and cocoa, and in the import of
rice, sanctioned. Efforts to raise revenue and collection were stepped up,
and redundant civil service staff laid-off. In mid-December 1989, except
for trade in gold and diamonds, import and export licenses were abolished,
and fiscal and monetary policy strengthened. As of end May 1990, Sierra
Leone's overdue financial obligations to the Fund were approximately SDR 73
million. Efforts towards a satisfactory resolution of the country's
financial and macro predicament are still being actively pursued.
2.05      In retrospect, the National Development Plan and its policy
context proved to be basically ineffective in correcting key macro
distortions because of the weak monetary, fiscal and exchange rate
policies. These policies had focussed on resource mobilization to meet
short term needs of the public sector rather than on Sierra Leone's long
term development and sustained growth. The net effect of the country's
economic policies was to emphasize consumption to the detriment of the
trade and current account balances which continued to be negative and
increasingly became a cause for concern. The timing of the Plan coincided
with a rapid erosion of foreign exchange earnings and deteriorating fiscal
performance. With lack of policy direction and budgetary control, it,
therefore, had little succ-;s in restructuring the macro policy framework
in favor of development oriented activities.
2.06      In line with the adjustment programme starting in 1986, efforts
were made by GOSL to establish effective linkages between project, sector
and macro policy objectives.  Export crop prices were increased, subsidies
reduced, public finances and public payrolls better controlled, and a
limited float of the Leone introduced. These measures also produced two
disturbing results. First, with government salaries reduced to less than
subsistence levels because of devaluation and higher prices, the existing
low motivation and morale in the civil service became worse. Second,
discontent among the freshly laid-off staff soared, wlo, in the absence of
viable alternatives, increasingly turned to agriculture for employment.
The impact of these measures on agricultural production was mixed. While
more remunerative export crop prices and the currency depreciation led to
improved incentives for tree crop development, th2 overall positive effect
of these was dampened by low morale and poor rural infrastructure. The
magnitude of the marketable surplus that might otherwise have emerged was
accordingly reduced and so, too, were farmers' actual and potential
incomes.



4
3.   Project Objectives and Description
3.01      Project Objectives.  The primary objectives of NIADP II were to
increase, over a five year period, food production and farm incomes by
expanding assistance to small farmers begun under a Phase I project in
Sierra Leone's Northern Province (Credit 568/Loan 1138-SL). It was
envisaged that approximately 13,500 farm families would directly benefit
from the project, that is, 40 percent of rural families in the combined
area covered by Phases I and II. Taking note also of the anticipated
improvement in general agricultural services in the area, and progress in
the roads and wells components that had occurred in the past, and was
envisaged to improve further as a result of the project initiative, almost
50 percent of the rural families under the two phases taken together were
expected to benefit.
3.02      Compared with the Eastern and Southern Provinces, climate and
soil conditions in the Northern Province are generally less favorable to
agricultural development. Whereas conditions in the former are conducive
to tree crop farming and the development of a rural cash economy, the
north, with longer dry seasons can support mainly subsistence farming and
shifting cultivation. An occasional surplus of rice, groundnut and citrus,
when it occurs, is usually sold for cash. Farm size averages between two
to three hectares. By and large, livestock is not integrated into the
farming systems. Rural incomes are far below the national average and,
within agriculture, incomes in the north are among the lowest. The project
area has a network of unclassified roads, mainly chiefdom tracks and minor
roads, that has been neglected over the years. The Northern Phase II
project was the Bank's fourth project for Sierra Leone's agricultural
development.
3.03      Project Description.  The project was to cover a total area of
13,400 km2 and 22 chiefdoms. While its main focus was on new project
areas, it was also to assist in supporting farmers not reached in Phase I
by making available to them credit and extension facilities. In all, about
34,000 farmers or 55 percent of area farmers were to benefit. Project
components and sub-components were to consist of the following:
(a) crop development: seasonal and medium-term loans would be
extended to farmers at 20 percent and 15 percent annual interest rates
respectively for financing the hiring of labor and essential agricultural
inputs for: (i) developing 2,000 ha of swamps for rice; (ii) improving
water control and crop husbandry of partially exploited swamp land, also
primarily for rice production; (iii) enhancing yields on about 20,000 ha of
uplands cultivated with rice, groundnut, cassava and maize and other crops;
and (iv) establishing about 750 ha of fruit trees on uplands;
(b) civil works: first, the construction of: (i) 80 km of all-weather
penetration roads, and rehabilitation of about 300 km of chiefdom tracks;
(ii) 400 village wells; (iii) five houses for project management staff;
(iv) ten farm service centers and sub-centers; and, second, rehabilitation
and expansion of: (i) the existing workshop and provision of related
equipment; and (ii) livestock facilities;



5
(c) extension services for: (i) the crop development program, and
(ii) livestock development with provision for the supply of drugs;
(d) studies: (i) evaluation of the program for construction of
village wells; (ii) evaluation of training programs and courses on
management training given to the Northern Area Project Management Unit
(NAPMU) staff by area training institutions; (iii) reports on field trials
to determine the potential for the development of tree crops, including
cashew, coffee and cocoa; (iv) a research program to determine the
appropriate tree species for use as fuel wood; and (v) a baseline socio-
economic survey and the subsequent planned adoption of a monitoring and
evaluation program for the project;
(e) support services: (i) establishing a monitoring and evaluation
unit for supervising the project's activities with provision for vehicles
and equipment; (ii) a stronger Institute of Public Administration and
Management (IPAM) for providing effective management training for
agricultural development; (iii) a health education program for the use and
maintenance of the village wells to be constructed under the project; and
(iv) preparation and adoption of a soil conservation and land use program.
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.01      During the project period, Sierra Leone was engaged in
implementing a number of projects aimed at rationalizing activities in
agriculture. These projects were integrated projects with an area specific
rather than sectoral approach. The emphasis was more on enhancing
production operations and essential infrastructure and less on tackling
economic efficiency issues at the sector level. The design of the NIADP II
project was aimed at increasing, as did Phase I, the living standards,
agricultural production and cash incomes of as many farmers as possible in
the Northern Province. Phase I had been the first major agricultural
development project in the northern part of Sierra Leone. Given the
historical imbalance in regional development between the progressive
Eastern region and the relatively less developed North, the project was of
great significance. As between appraisal and preparation, there was no
marked difference in project design. However, so as not to over-complicate
or burden the management function, it had been decided at appraisal to
exclude from the design certain components, in spite of their importance,
such as farm storage, forestry, and health.
4.02      In its consistency with Phase I under which upland and swamp
rice had been successfully promoted, and the T&V system successfully
introduced, the project design was appropriate. Efforts to incorporate
lessons from the earlier phase were not entirely satisfactory. Lessons
from Phase I that were most apparent were related to the ineffectiveness of
credit operations, poor availability of seed, and weak capability of
indigenous staff, which was especially pronounced at the middle and senior
management levels. The project design had been unable to recognize, to the
extent nccessary, the actual degree of weakness of the institutions
concerned even at the end of Phase I. Thus, less than adequate arrangement
in the project design for the basic and longer term development of the
relevant institutions was made. A further shortcoming in design pertained
to the inclusion of the tree crop component without prior study of the



6
potential for tree crop cultivation in an area with little tradition for
long term cash crops. This taxed the project's scarce funds and placed a
burden on the research and extension staff which lacked training in tree
crop cultivation. The same argument holds for the project's promotion of
groundnut in a geographical area not considered conducive to groundnut
cultivation. Another aspect of project design that was noticeably weak was
agricultural research, particularly adaptive research. The provision for
field trials and analysis was almost totally confit *d to studying the
potential for cultivation of cashew, cocoa and coffee, and appropriate
species for fuelwood. There was no systematic provision for research into
food crops, for which the project area was suited, for which the need was
crucial, and for which the scope for productivity increases was large.
4.03      The above not withstanding, there were positive and innovative
aspects of project design that deserve mention. Soil erosion in the
uplands due to population pressure and decreased fallow and the likely
adverse effects on crop yields nad become a major cause for concern. The
new agronomy unit was to take steps to halt this trend through the
introduction of conservation measures such as contour bunding, permanent
cropping, the planting of fruit trees, and the setting aside of grazing
areas. Far-reaching implications for resource depletion and soil erosion
were also evident from the rapidly rising demand for fuelwood for cooking,
construction, and tobacco curing. The project, accordingly, recommended
investigation into appropriate tree crop species for these purposes.
4.04      To tackle problems experienced by cattle-owning crop farmers in
stock management, within a predominantly cropping system, the project
provided for the education of cattle-owners in livestock management through
communally operated Village Cattle Development Units (VCDUs). A renewed
effort was also to be made to interest farmers in the use of draft oxen
through training in livestock, and field trials with mixed cropping. This
was important for northern Sierra Leone, a region not only where labor was
believed to be in relatively short supply, but, also, where farmers were
predominantly risk-averse, and driven to a large extent, by subsistence
needs rather than profit-maximization. It was recognized, then, that the
farmer's choice of crop combinations and farm development programs would
not always be consistent with the profit motive. This and other socio-
economic considerations, including the fact of labor supply being a key
limiting factor in the project area, were, to the extent possible, taken
iato account in the design of the project's crop development programs. 6/
4.05      When viewed in terms of Sierra Leone's budgetary constraint and
limited absorptive capacity, the scope and scale of the project could have
been guided by greater pragmatism. There was already an awareness on the
part of many decision-makers of the inevitable burden on agriculture sector
finances and institutions of implementing a number of IADPs at about the
6/ The paradox of labor being in short supply in conditions of apparently
considerable open unemployment and underemployment continues. The problem
is posed on the one hand of genuine seasonal and/or regional shortages,
and, on the other, of farm wages being insufficient to bring forth the
required supply over and above the reservation wage.



7
same time. 7/ Bearing this in mind, evcn though the project did not opt
for an outright and ambitious expansion of area and activities, it could
have further reinforced initiatives that had met with little success in the
earlier phase. Fewer components with sharper focus on strengthening sector
institutions, input and credit supply, accompanied by reforms in pricing
and marketing policy, would have had greater impact.
4.06      The project was identified during the supervision of NIADP I in
January 1979. It was a follow-up to the Second IADP which had included a
Phase I project for the Northern Province. Encouraged by the progress made
under Phase I, the project continued to pursue opportunities, believed to
be numerous, for further development of the northern region.  NIADP I was
considered, then, to provide a good basis for the development of a second
phase.  Project preparation was carried out by FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program, together with the Government of Sierra Leone, between October 1979
and February 1980, and was presented to the World Bank Group for financing
in March 1980. Cofinancing from the ADB, ADF and IFAD was supplemented by
a grant from UNDP. Staff who had worked in the previous phase also
contributed to the preparation of Phase II. In view of Sierra Leone's
acute financial situation, the project was well-timed. Appraisal took
place before the close of NIADP I on June 30, 1981 inclusive of a six-month
extension of the closing date.
4.07      Except for the planned major reorganization of MAF and the
integration of IADPs into the MAF, no major changes in organization and
management were envisaged for Phase II. To the extent that the initial
burden associated with the setting up and operation of a new organizational
structure was reduced, implementation was enhanced. The respective
responsibilities and roles of the agencies and staff were to remain
basically intact. Day to day management was to be provided by the Project
Management Unit headed by an internationally recruited Project Manager.
Overall project responsibility was to rest with the MAF. The terms of
reference were clearly defined for all project entities.
4.08      More careful attention to project design in certain specific
areas could have contributed to greater success in meeting overall project
objectives. First, the technical design for the layouts of selected swamps
was weak and this impeded the full achievement of swamp rice targets.
Second, the project's promotion of groundnut, in an area known to be
climatically inhospitable to its cultivation, on the premise that improved
seed would make it worth the effort, was questionable; similar questions
can be raised on the inclusion of a tree crop component in northern Sierra
Leone (not the study for assessing its potential which was essential under
the circumstances). Third, the lack of attention to marketing arrangements
for agricultural produce and livestock compromised the success of both
these components. Fourth, the feeder roads component did not fully
consider the economic cost implications of agreeing to higher than
necessary standards for their construction. During Phase I, costs per mile
7/ In early 1980, the number of externally financed IADPs in Sierra Leone,
whether in operation or planned totalled seven. At the start of 1983, it
was estimated that 20 percent of the nation's farmers had access to
agricultural services through the IADPs.



8
were in exc.ss of appraisal estimates by five times. Fifth, exclusive
reliance on the Seed Multiplication Project (SMP) for project seed, an
integral part of Phase II, was a major drawback. The crop physical targets
became especially vulnerable to any setbacks in the performance of the SMP.
Sixth, the decision to share technical expertise of a Credit Specialist
with EIADP III for credit strengthening, an area critical to overall
project objectives, was a risk that could have been avoided. It turned out
that the selected Credit Specialist proved to be effective in improving
cost recovery and streamlining procedures. However, this might not have
been the case. In any event, a single Credit Specialist for two IADPs
spread across the country placed an unduly large burden on one individual,
thereby reducing his ability to fully tackle all issues that required to be
urgently and more completely addressed.
5.   Project Implementation
5.01      The project became effective October 15, 1981 six months after
Board approval. Because of a growing shortage of funds between the close
of Phase I and effectiveness, implementation got off to a poor start.
Suspension of disbursements at various times by IDA, ADB, ADF and IFAD
together with the country's rapidly deteriorating finances led to the
progressive reduction in project effectiveness. The project rating fell
from 2 to 3, and then to 4, where it remained in the later years. There
was increasing pressure on project managers to lower their implementation
targets and tighten control on spending to fit the Government's budgetary
constraints. This led to some staff lay-offs which were followed by labor
unrest. Managerial and staffing problems further slowed implementation of
field activities, civil works and road construction. After detection of
irregularities in the accounts section, all its staff were replaced by
Ministry staff who then had to be trained in commercial accounting. The
situation was compounded by the continued lack of communication between
various project units. Finally, toward project completion, the project was
brought almost to a complete standstill, by the further worsening of
project finances, rapid depletion of the credit revolving fund, increased
reliance on commercial bank overdrafts, and the suspension of IDA and ADB
disbursements. An exception was the tree crops component, the funding for
which was to continue under the Agri *Itural Sector Support Project (ASSP).
With respect to the remaining projec   ctivities, as completion and closing
approached, a start was made to integrate project staff with the MANR's
regional program.
5.02      Financial constraints impeded several activities central to the
project. Difficulty in obtaining transport and equipment because of
financial and procurement delays continued to hamp-r field activities
including credit recovery.  Three critical bottle. -ks, namely, funding,
shortage of improved seed, and lack of transport persis#'d through most of
the project. The civil works program also suffered on atcount of cost
overruns from substantial increases in the cost of labor and materials.
Except for livestock health training, management of the livestock component
was so poor that it had to be retracted. As the project progressed, its
benefits were believed to be far lower than expected. This placed doubt on
project justification, especially in the event that the problems were to
remain unresolved.



9
5.03      The above not withstanding, there were instances where effective
measures were taken to facilitate implementation. Some of these involved
amendments to the Credit Agreement. In the case of large cost overruns on
buildings, funds, initially earmarked for replacing vehicles in project
years 4 and 5, were reallocated to the civil works component to prevent
further delay. Funds were also reallocated in the Agriculture Sector loan
to enable the financing of essential agricultural inputs. The problem of
the project's cash flow had been accentuated by the small initial deposit
in the Special Account of NIADP II compared to those in Eastern Phase III
and the Magbosi projects respectively. Through appropriate amendments to
the Credit Agreement the amount was increased from SDR 80,000 to SDR
270,000. While this was helpful and eased the project's immediate cash
flow situation, it did not do so for long with the funding constraint
assuming even more serious proportions. There were other areas, too, where
implementation appears to have fared better. The introduction of a new
strategy for improved credit recovery along with new procedures for loan
recording, collection and monitoring strengthened credit services, even
though the question of the financial viability of credit operations
remained. Project accounts, too, in terms of internal controls and book-
keeping were reported to have been well maintained, and any irregularities
detected promptly dealt with.
5.04      SAR targets could have been attained through: (i) closer
attention to the design of the swamp rice component; (ii) better assessment
of the viability of tree crop and groundnut cultivation in the northern
region, an area not generally known to have been conducive to these crops;
(iii) detailed planning and alternative arrangements for good quality seed;
(iv) regular monitoring of fuel supplies; (v) more effective monitoring and
evaluation during implementation; (vi) a free standing credit component;
and (vii) a firm and unambiguous agreement during appraisal between IBRD
and ADB on the terms of loans to farmers for seasonal and developmental
loans. Such an agreement would have avoided sending two conflicting
signals by donors to Government on the same project and issue. Viable
alternatives for tackling seed shortages that had adversely affected
implementation of the crop production program through most of the project's
life would have enhanced the achievement of project targets, particularly
with shortage of seed also having been a problem in the earlier phase. In
spite of assurances at Negotiations that MAF would obtain from SMP the
required quantities of seeds, there were serious shortfalls in supply with
negative implications for the achievement of crop physical targets. Apart
from the inability of the SMP to cope with the demand for seed from a
number of IADPs, there was lack of adequate planning that would have
enabled placing orders with the SMP, as required at least a year in
advance.
5.05      All three project risks stated in the SAR were indicative of
Sierra Leone's weak institutional capacity. These related to likely
setbacks in expanding and strengthening the extension system, improving
credit recovery, and maintaining an adequate and timely flow of farm
inputs. While the project attempted to minimize these risks through the
design of its components, it did not recognize, sufficiently, the extent of
weakness, at the time, of the existing institutions and systems for credit,
input supply and extension. Furthermore, neither the repercussions on



10
implementation from the country's serious budgetary situation, nor
continued sector distortions were examined.
5.06      Not foreseen and having the most adverse impact on the project
was deterioration in Sierra Leone'. already serious financial situation.
This manifested itself in: (i) inadequate counterpart funding; and (ii)
suspension of disbursements by IDA, ADB. ADF, and IFAD in response to
outstanding payments arrears. Other factors not foreseen were, first, the
shortages of fuel, transport, planting material and fertilizer; second, an
absence of a rational method for pricing seedlings; and, third, non-
fulfillment of the covenant requiring the recruitment and maintenance of a
training expert in the IPAM resulting in substantial shortfalls in the
training program.
5.07      Actions and/or decisions that enhanced project implementation
were: (i) steps taken to transfer funds and activities from the Credit to
enable proper maintenance of roads already constructed; 8/ (ii) the
decision to close Mara ranch which had been poorly managed, as well as the
Feed Mill, and to utilize the savings to strengthen livestock health
training; (iii) in spite of serious funding and transport constraints,
enumerators continued to conduct surveys by foot and public transport while
awaiting airport clearance for motorbikes ordered earlier; (iv) prompt
efforts by Bank to assist Government to utilize external loan funds for
procuring essential fertilizer supplies; and (v) on noting increased
interest in swamp rice cultivation, Bank missions urged project management
to utilize the swamps and its environs to the fullest through the promotion
of double cropping and the systematic development of adjacent slopes.
5.08      Actions and decisions not taken and which would have helped
project implementation include: (i) a clear demarcation between Phase I and
Phase II activities, particularly with respect to the utilization of donor
funds; (ii) an initial strong agenda for participation by farmers and
workers in schemes where their active involvement was vital such as the
chiefdom tracks component where it was generally required that unclassified
roads be maintained at the village level; (iii) agreement with GOSL on the
standard of roads to be constructed by CARE, and an early decision and firm
commitment from CARE on its agreeing to undertake the rehabilitation and/or
reconstruction of chiefdom tracks; 91(iv) a thorough moni.oring of seed
availability, including the performance of the SMU, and steps to ensure
the recovery of adequate seed from contract farmers through good field
supervision; (v) close monitoring of the fuel supply situation on which the
project, especially all field activity, was heavily dependent; (vi) based
on SAR findings, exclusion, at the outset, of the piggery and Feed Mill
8/ There remained the overall concern by Bank staff of pursuing additional
road development without ensuring the financing for maintenance of roads
already constructed. The idea of transferring funds from new construction
in existing road components for the purpose of maintenance was one that was
finally supported.
9/ Two years into implementation, CARE had serious reservations, and was
reluctant to construct chiefdom tracks on the ground that these were seldom
maintained and usually reverted back to bush.



11
from the project design; (vii) assessment of the logistics of fertilizer
use and the adoption of improved packages at an early stage to ensure that
only farmers who had received improved seed fertilizer were issued
fertilizer; (viii) greater realism and caution in the promotion of selected
crops, including tree crops, in areas where they were not traditionally
cultivated and which were considered climatically sub-optimal for their
cultivation; (ix) less frequent changes in technical recommendations made
to farmers and more consultation on such recommendations with other IADPs;
and (x) agreement between IBRD and ADB, prior to effectiveness, on the
interest rates charged to farmers for seasonal and development loans.
6.   Project Results
6.01      Although there were elements of success, the project according
to supervirion reports failed to achieve its targets and objectives. The
overall outcome has, accordingly, been unsatisfactory. Responsible for the
overall unfavourable outcome was Sierra Leone's weak macroeconomic
management that was unable to reverse the economic decline and strengthen
fiscal management. Because of funding constraints and the suspension of
disbursements, the project's benefits and impact were much below SAR
expectations. However, as compared to Phase I, there was a notable
increase in interest by farmers in project activities and improvements in
the standard of cultivation. The number of farmers estimated to have
participated in the upland and swamp rice, groundnut and tree crops
programmes was placed at 13,727 compared to the SAR estimate of 13,500 farm
families. This excludes farmers engaged in the cultivation of other crops
such as cassava, maize, tobacco and other crops and crop mixes. As the
project progressed, funding constraints, poor logistics for input supply,
difficulty in obtaining credit, and lack of mobility dampened this positive
effect. Farmers became discouraged, while the scope for substantial
increases in yields remained large. The problem of good quality seed and
lack of effective research and inadequate testing affected project success
adversely. In the initial years, the project's management focussed more on
administrative and organizational matters and less on field activities.
This pattern was reversed with a change in project management during mid-
project years. Improved project organization and better administration
were a reflection of serious efforts toward effective implementation made
by the project management team. In fact, there was a phase early in the
project when the administrative standards of NIADP II were considered among
the best of the three IADPs then being implemented.
6.02      As regards physical targets, by the start of the third project
year, in spite of financial constraints and shortage of planting material
(particularly for upland varieties), achievements in upland and swamp rice
cultivation were in excess of SAR targeto. In contrast, the performance of
other crops (accounting for about 5,000 ha of the total SAR targets) such
as cassava, tree crops, maize, tobacco and groundnut was considerably below
set expectations. This was because of the delayed start in the propagation
of planting material. However, there was some progress in the development
of disease resistant varieties for cassava. Extension and training
services provided to tobacco farmers by the Commercial Tobacco Company were
reported to be excellent.



12
6.03      The results from the tree crop component were mixed.  Depending
on the manner in i'hich one views the final outcome it can be said to have
either succeeded or failed. It failed because targets were not met. It
succeeded because it created farmers' interest in tree crop cultivation as
judged by the large shortfalls in planting material (with the exception of
coffee) relative to farmer's demand. 10/ This is significant since the
North was not an area with a .radition for tree crop cultivation. In
addition, since the emphasis of NIADP had been on the production of food
crops, staff were not adequately trained and key inputs nc. available for
the inclusion of long term cash crops. The component, which finally took
off in project year 4, was under severe strain by early 1986 from problems
related to funding and fuel, poor management, and low morale. While the
specific target for nurseries and seedlings was exceeded, nursery
management had suffered from constraints on supervision, irrigation, and
availability of essential inputs and planting materials. The most serious
problem was that of poor accounting of nursery operations and the
establishment of nurseries in vicinities considered suboptimal for
cultivation. Since nursery expenditures were not recorded, the problem of
pricing seedlings could not be resolved. There was no suitably trained
counterpart to the Tree Crop Specialist, and no planning appears to have
been in force either for the nurseries or for the supply of farm inputs.
The component had thus become excessively target oriented without attention
being paid to quality or the actual demand for seedlings or the ability of
the nurseries to cater to this demand.
6.04      The key to successful tree crop cultivation was the tree crop
nursery at Makump. Initially set up to supply fruit tree seedlings to
large farmers for supply of fruit to the Mabole Fruit Processing Factory,
which was closed down in 1980, its terms of reference were changed to
providing seedlings for other tree crop species. However, because of poor
logistics and lack of understanding of priorities, the irrigation system at
Makump was rendered ineffective and recourse taken to less efficient plant
watering methods. The final results were varied. Of the two year
production targets, 93 percent was met for coffee, 75 percent for citrus
(not budded) and 31 percent (budded), over 50 percent each for oil palm and
coffee, 30 percent for mango, 23 percent for guava, and three percent for
cashew. 11/ In February 1987, the Tree Crops Unit was integrated with the
regional administration.
6.05      The wide variation between targets and actual crop achievements
was due to funding and fuel shortages resulting in a lack of essential
inputs, low morale, and poor extension and supervision of sub and village
nurseries. On civil works, by project year 4, infrastructure was
incomplete and the program had to be scaled down and limited to operational
buildings. The village wells program was reduced from 400 to 48 wells, and
feeder road construction from 50 miles to 45 miles. With the exception of
the livestock component which was retracted, there were no major changes in
project objectives. Because of poor management and absence of progress, a
10/ The shortage of planting material was most severe in the case of oil
palm which was by far the most demanded crop.
l/ Seedling citrus was not recommended because of low yield.



13
decision was made to limit the component's objectives to the livestock
health training program. This turned out to be relatively successful in
spite of the reported lack of cooperation from MANR's veterinarian staff.
6.06      The NIADP II was completed almost three years ago.  In the
assessment of the supervision missions, its development impact was rated a
3 with large shortfalls in most crop and civil works SAR targets. There
were no noticeable breakthroughs on the technological front although some
investigative work had been initiated on citrus cultivars and tree crop
species for fuelwood. Project management rating also averaged 3. On the
institutional side, it may be said that the project made a greater
contribution to local rather than national institutions by improving
standards of accounting and administration within the project and despite
acute funding constraints. Even though the project was unable to make a
mark on raising the quality of middle and higher level management staff, it
enabled technical staff to gain good working knowledge in accounting and
extension, much of it through on-the-job training. Based on these
achievements it can be said that the project had some positive impact on
human resource development. Given enhanced farmer participation in project
activities, especially for the rice and fruit tree components, it is
expected that some improvements in the social environment would also have
taken place.  The impact on macro performance and sectoral policies was
however limited.  Except for the positive and higher rates of interest to
be charged on seasonal and development loans, there were no pricing and
marketing reforms that were evident or of any significance, even though the
need for sector policy reforms was urgent and long overdue.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.01      The economic rate of return at appraisal was estimated at 21
percent. There was neither a PCR mission at project completion nor a
comprehensive final supervision. An exact assessment of whether the
project can maintain an acceptable level of net benefits through its
economic life is difficult. However, based on reports by Bank staff who
recently visited selected project areas in connection with the Policy
Framework Paper (PFP), it is unlikely that the economic rate of return
could have exceeded seven or eight percent. These accounts indicate that
Bank-supported IADPs are not perceived by government officials and donors
as having been successful. They are said to have had little impact on
Agricultural production and rural incomes and employment. Being commonly
viewed as 'powerful' enclave projects, the integration of the Bank-funded
IADPs with regional MANR structures has been difficult and has not been
achieved. MANR staff are reported to view their counterpart staff in the
IADPs as having been privileged in terms of better remuneration, training,
and working environment. The MANR is reported to be burdened with a large
staff of 10,000 whose salaries take up almost the entire MANR budgetary
allocation.
7.02      The prospects of project sustainability, under Sierra Leone's
macro circumstances, would have depended first, on the extent of setback to
the project since the prolonged economic crisis and suspension of
disbursements, and second, on the project's resiliency in being able to
recover from the setback and the requirements for doing so. Clearly, none
of these conditions has been evaluated. The crucial risk factors, namely.



14
the continued unsatisfactory macro and payments arrears situations, and
delays in carrying out necessary sector reforms, remain even now. At the
project level too, the anticipated risk factors do not appear to have been
addressed. The activities of the Ministry of Agriculture are reported to
be almost at a stand-still. Accordingly, the problem of irregular and
inadequate funding and insufficient maintenanc3 funds for feeder roads and
chiefdom tracks continues to be serious. The effort tc strengthen
agricultural services through more effective institutions and a long-term
commitment to agricultural research and training, too, appears to have lost
momentum. The key to achieving some measure of meaningful and sustained
growth in the project areas would be the removal of these impediments and a
policy and incentive framework conducive to sector efficiency.
8.   Bank Performance
8.01      The project benefitted from effective Bank supervision.  There
was regular dialogue with the Government on project developments and
progress and serious efforts made to resolve implementation difficulties.
This strengthened the supervision process. However, in the early stages of
the project cycle, the Bank could have devoted more time and effort to
dealing with issues that are generally proven potential drawbacks to IADPs.
Accordingly, greater emphasis on creating an enabling environment for
effective agricultural research, training, and a good understanding of
labor, land tenure and socio-economic issues in the project area would have
been a worthy investment of staff resources. Specific areas that could
have received closer attention, prior to effectiveness, relate to nursery
development, and measures to ensure the availability of credit snd other
essential inputs at the time and in the quantities required.
8.02      During appraisal, in addition to steps designed to strengthen
institutions, the Bank could have focussed on the importance of adopting
necessary policy measures aimed at bringing about economic efficiency at
the sector and project levels in the interest of the long term growth and
development of the sector. Supervision reports and follow-up measures and
correspondence appear to have reported well on project execution and
management, and financial issues. On reporting on the progress in
achieving physical targets, however, project supervision and reporting was
unsatisfactory. Toward project completion, more specifically in the final
year of the project, emphasis was placed on the need to collect data for
the preparation of a PCR. While it is never too late to insist on good and
regular project monitoring, to have done so at this late stage in project
implementation was next to futile. Both implementation and the preparation
of a PCR would have greatly benefitted had regular project monitoring been
insisted upon earlier.
8.03      The most striking, obvious and predominant lesson from the NIADP
II is the reduced likelihood of project success when the project is
undertaken in an economy consumed with macro and sector distortions. Under
these circumstances, improvement of the macro and sector policy and
incentive framework should be a basic and minimal requirement for success
at the project level. Additional prerequisites for success would be
strengthened and effective sector institutions for extension, training,
research and credit on the one hand, and adequate transport and marketing
infrastructure on the other. Further lessons for relevant Bank financed



15
projects based on the experience of NIADP I! may be suggested. First,
where clear lessons from an earlier phase of the project are available, the
project design should, as a matter of priority, first address issues that
arose out of these, particularly tackling institutional weaknesses before
designing more complex components. Second, in instances where macro and
sector policies are distorted, macro reforms are necessary but not
sufficient to create conditions for sector efficiency; these conditions
must be btought about through sector policy reforms related, especially, to
pricing, marketing and subsidies. Third, where technical packages are
weak, in the sense of insufficient knowledge and/or testing, productivity
gains based on anticipated yields must be cautiously and conservatively
projected. Fourth, in a region dominated by poor farmers, the project must
be able to offer farmers the choice of simple and cost-effective technology
at an affordable price. Fifth, success of the project should not be overly
dependent on a handful of specialists recruited under the project, who,
when they leave, also leave a floundering department, project and/or
project staff. Sixth, innovative and well-designed training programs
capable of reaching a large and maximum number of project staff are
essential to project sustainability and institutional development.
Seventh, regular supervision of the project in close cooperation with the
cofinanciers and all project entities must be of high priority. Eighth,
where project success hinges on the availability of essential inputs,
credit and other services, the project design must either ensure their
timely availability in the quantities required or have contingency plans
for their supply, otherwise the project proposal itself is not very
meaningful with credibility of the project initiative itself open to
question. Furthermore, the expected and vital impact of any proposed
reforms, especially, those relating to producer prices for cash crops, is
lost, and the damage to farmer enthusiasm to adopt improved packages and
practices difficult to remedy in the short-term. Ninth, in projects that
place as much stress on the achievement of physical targets as on
institutional development and strengthening, the project must allow for
either reduced scope and scale of the project or a longer period of
implementation. Tenth, in areas such as procurement and cofinancing where
the Bank has expertise and experience, that is, where it has some control
over the outcome, it must firmly pursue necessary solutions together with
its counterparts and cofinanciers to prevent avoidable delaya in project
implementation and progress. Eleven, project design must openly recognize
the risk associated with the success of an important component hinging on
that of another completely separately funded project as was the case of the
seed project financed by donor technical aid.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.01      The Borrower's performance was marred by its inability to arrest
Sierra Leone's economic decline. Adjustment measures were not fully
implemented. Continued weak economic management and fiscal indiscipline
had an unfavorable impact on the project's perforwance and sustainability.
This was the Borrower's main weakness. Its main strength was reflected in
its willingness to openly discuss, enquire and/or explain project related
issues that came to the forefront, and to cooperate with the Bank, as much
as it could within the overall financial constraint, in resolving difficult
problems. The critical financial circumstances would normally have
preempted any project progress. However, due credit must be given to



16
project management and staff who tried hard to meet project targets.  On
the whole, the project itself was fairly well managed, even though this had
a lot to do with the particular individuals appointed as project manager.
9.02      The experience in implementation and performance of the Northern
Phase II project was similar to the Eastern Phase III project which was
being implemented during approximately the same period. The lessons for
the Borrower are also similar. :irst, it is important for the Borrower to
take measures at the macro and central budget level that will ensure
adequate and regular funding for the project being undertaken.  Second, the
project design and scale should be prudently drawn based on the Borrower's
own realistic assessment of its overall budgetary and institutional
capacity. Third, where the projects are externally funded, the Borrower
must ensure the inclusion of a strong training component where a maximum
number of staff would benefit and obtain specialized training relevant to
the project and sector, so that training imparted after project closing is
of equal quality, and continues with the same momentum. Third, whether or
not the project is funded externally, it is essential for the Borrower to
establish a solid framework for financial and commercial accounting, and
monitoring and evaluation, through well selected project teams rather than
through the temporary dependence on a few consultants. Fourth, it is in
the Borrower's interest to bring to the forefront at the preparation stage,
or even earlier, any social issues that might impede project progress and
the project's ultimate success. It should also highlight possible
additional constraints that could arise at decision-making levels which
might delay or interfere with smooth project implementation.
10. Project Relationship
10.01     The Bank-Borrower relationship was marked by good communication
at the working and decision-making levels. The Bank relationship with the
many project entities, too, was satisfactory. However, the same cannot be
said of the Borrower's relationship with the ADB which was characterized by
strain on account of payments arrears and procurement difficulties. ADB
had, on several occasions, been unable to join Bank supervision missions
and actively participate and facilitate the process of problem solving.
The importance of overall and effective communication on project
implementation cannot be underestimated, and, particularly, on complex
project related issues, if the project is to succeed. The Borrower's
relationship with other relevant parties such as CARE was somewhat mixed.
The underlying cause was the Borrower's financial constraints. The main
issues that were required to be addressed were design and organizational
issues, for example, grade specification of project roads and the
apprcpriate organization that would maintain the roads post construction.
There was also the question of whether CARE would agree to undertake the
construction of chiefdom tracks given its strong view that these are not
maintained after completion. The relationship between different project
units was reported to suffer from poor communication between them.  This
led to difficulties in da~i. reconciliation. Shortages of vehicles which
constrained the mobility of 1a&E staff is cited as the primary explanation
for inadequate and ineffective communication.



17
11. Consulting Services
11.01     Consultants were able to make important contributions in
selected areas. The Credit Specialist introduced new procedures and helped
to streamline financial operations and, in the process, improve credit
recovery. Yet the services of the Credit Specialist were shared with the
EIADP III project whose implementation overlapped partly with NIADP II.
This was a poor arrangement since credit recovery and delivery systems and
procedures were weak and constituted major issues in both projects. One
individual having to strengthen, signif.'cantly, credit operations in two
IADPs stretched across two regions was not cost-effective from a long-run
point of view. CARE continued to construct good roads in Sierra Leone as
it had done in the past.  Furthermore, it was very forthright in its view
on the construction of chiefdom tracks and the problem of their subsequent
maintenance, and at the same time flexible on the issue. It cooperated
fully with the Bank on the decision to scale down the program for
construction of new roads so that investments already made could be
protected through adequate maintenance and attention.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01     The legal agreements for the projects were clearly spelled out
and appeared to lend themselves to careful and close monitoring during
implementation and supervision. An added strength of the Development
Credit Agreements was in the built-in flexibility that enabled the Bank and
Borrcwer to make amendments with relative ease in circumstances that
necessitated them.
12.02     During implementation, the SAR was useful for the Bank and
Borrower in terms of explaining the institutional and infrastructure
constraints in the project area and the measures necessary to strengthen
these. The SAR was weak, however, in analyzing the policy and incentive
framework for the agriculture sector. This was inevitably to entail
considerable economic cost with related serious implications for the
projects were the prevailing policies to remain intact. This was a
shortcoming that compromised technical and economic efficiency in the
sector and projects. With relative optimism that macro problems would be
solved in the short term, the SAR did not alert decision-makers, and those
closely connected with the projects, on the risks for the project due to
deterioration on the macro front and continuation of the distorted policy
and incentive framework within the agriculture sector.
12.03     Sierra Leone lacks a national agricultural data base.  Bank
supervision reports had made some data comparisons on 'actual' crop
production compared to SAR targets, but much of the data on other targets
and achievements was lacking. Even for crop production, area achievements
were measured by annual inputs supplied rather than measurement of the
actual area cultivated. Available data thus have to be interpreted with
considerable caution. It would be useful for agricultural projects in
future to ensure that the Borrower prepare in consultation with the Bank a
format for a project data base prior to project effectiveness and
preferably at appraisal. Regular updating of the data base and follow-up
analysis could then provide a useful source of project data for



18
supervision, implementation, regular evaluation, and special stua,es
including a PCR.
12.04     Collection of Baseline Survey data was completed within the
first two years of the project, and a questionnaire for a labor allocation
study in the area was being initiated. The data that were collected
pertained basically to household information. No crop yield data were
gathered initially because of constraints imposed by shortages of vehicles,
fuel, and weighing scales. Subsequent data gathered turned out to be
unreliable and was not corroborated by checks in the field. With closer
supervision, the M&E unit could have provided useful data in several areas.
First, it could have tested the results of applying fertilizer to local
traditional seed material in upland cropping and in the process could have
helped in reducing random and wasteful use of fertilizer. Second, it could
have provided more precise estimates on average yields for swamp rice based
on field cuttings. This would have assisted extension staff to counter
farmer reluctance to adopting improved nursery practices such as line
spacing at planting and better water control measures.
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(The Borrower was requested to provide a Review, but nz;ne was received).



19
PtT liI STAI=STICA. miWTIN
helum  Ittgt1tgt1 lqrcattural  uluegi et prettCt iCrti4t IIN2 tI
1. InlatStSt     t tAO"  Mtg/  C'edats
Ltiay tsi Crtattt               Thtet              twoEw a     t         areo/ l                    Stit       0                                            r       s     Ss       t
latwtntt  4icr ltor4i                   rtke project matc to uaild X        tu  "Morigtegtc    4/24c         Cloil so Of 05/11317            Thle WAt tgettc rats of  Rtvo  4  Is olw t     t.  the
Aewlget Fria ct aitinlt S23A5)    tf  t oal Uts ltlte  atelaISM  to 195. by                                                                  Project Perfesce hat btWt cn ta  ratc t4
the insttri 04 of   scotVtvs Mi btnttl                                                              retta,  at 2.empsnocet. this so% calcvaatee ma toe
Ienwcin  ("I ebach U          tt aqo                                                                basis d4 too Pu's tntc alowstauns ade   atutetts
titslthliet oi     t Ws stdtap a"  tithe                                                             o ttt as the id   eal     ll Aa Uwe me to late
wnruiaq arwe.  It as aie to mcose,                                                                 tAfon atcm so tne t1i11 cru  ,o.
the *tovnflocatot  da teetlheidt  frotetq
ItVot  e4ficast race, cos  of  Oat hold
pdfhtCl. is t4raeltvt l   tleul.eet
XtBttitv l to4 toH n"tor dclb ow
cotSA"to san te h socusai tand ousti
Met savarte the eat gall tl td iel
estate.  A prejut unenut seat    " the
NW o   to he  ntablaeig ,   d   rimage
$ttode a  c tosttool vceatc     ts ad   itetant
of relevut croi  cmrtgo  mt.
Se1i iVnCIlttrti 1`1`  C1tIat            Th1 pIu Et bM te asst  a ffaUKag                      04/29/75      Ctglei a  04 09d/tt                 VA b   W stauted a  Ktc_   rate o4 ratmre of O2
CrtUtt le. S*L                           da ltrmtetal  mdstaun A"  far Incoese                                                               WrCOtt.  1The Pnrojct PerwVtCe heta  t_Ws
Lm  Se  t"                              a"  to "tallish wegt av  sasst                                                                       entleute "I  pWCet. riso we prelat actasatoan
ewence  tMet * tid htll n walt                                                                      Is tkt Gtnt   ad (attrn. begos oath steantc
ayanlteIat letie        t Ut coetraints ta                                                          fitn  t4 rettn at  oranata  Of 14 wcst ae 25
0  tIWttve letti     0tt4 tlat as rWei Woe.                                                         WECIt rteWctavei. The t          overall rate of retIre
ts  a retttagett   f   otitrtfalls    ay  eOt c
Wfur KCE Mi tie  _ao  Of eatrKt Ihraeaciaraes
Iach on  *vttacuwlf  led Ie the (aotms I5qnt.
(atwo  tett   ipacetite                  the ens if thte netjt  on as eCta        m *_a         I/IS/SI      Clash as of 12/31/dI            The ecugmc rAte r.4 rotors gstasited by the VA at !4
i,steget  Prett (irot 1094-SI ) five-w wsar                 atWarttwo"   atatn  or the                                                      smCtt no1 MtiIAl  t cao     s P e"  gM t. th attest fite
colttvetae of nea  race. MW  aIltM  race                                                            04 rgtme nI  likelys to  hm   t   fa rglo    4os to
Mi caSSewet a"  a"  stanta    Of cncfgs,                                                            tIvg  rhrtOlls lat  an to  trw    itat egoreew  Me
cm s"      . as eal  Oa&e                                                                          the SA tarst fsfr rdso Mi  village gtll. Pow
oftt fttuC sa nthil loca Of the tbirnt s
ISIaW fasucKat satnataM 014 OamsgUini 04
finsimoants by dmns En  to the ctutri tssag
ddt t  to stte arroew  IaVents.



20
2.   Project Timetable
Date                      Date
Item               Planned                    Actual
-  Identification              03/30/80                   03/03/80
(Executive Project
Summary)
- Preparation                      12/78                     02/80
-  Appraisal Mission           06/30/80                   06/30/80
-  Loan/Credit                 02/09/81                   02/09/81
Negotitations
-  Board Approval              04/07/81                   04/07/81
-  Loan/Credit                 05/13/81                   06/13/81
Signature
-  Loan/Credit                 08/13/81                   11/15/81
Effectiveness
-  Loan/Credit Closing         06/30/87                   12/31/87
-  Loan/Credit Complotion      12/31/88                    June 86
3. Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS '000)
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87 a/
Appraisal Estimate                2.6      4.2      5.6      6.7     7.9     8.5
Actual                            0.6      1.4      1.9     2.4      2.8     3.0 b/
Actual as % of Estimate           20       33      34       36      36       36
Date of Final Disburseme nt        12/89
a/ End of second quarter of FY87.
b/ The exact figure is USS 3.07 million. Actual cumulative disbursoments were low compared to estimated
disbursoemnts because of lack of counterpart funding and suspension of disbursements.



21
4. Project Implentation
-----------------------------------------..-----------__---------------------__---
Appraisal                 Actual
Indicators                Estimate                  Estimate
Crop Development (ha) 1/:
Upland Rico                          10,760                    6,437
Swamp Rico                            4,000                    4,668
Groundnut                             4,886                    1,826
Tree Crops                              304                      348
Other Crops 2/                       5,096                        no
Village Wells (no.) 3/                   400 4/                    na
Roads (km)
Class IV                                 80 6/                    no
Chiefdom Tracks                         300 6/                    no
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__
1/ Area based on sales of inputs each year.
2/ Includes cassava and sweet potatoes, maize, tobacco, and crop mix on upland and swamp cultivation.
3/ The target for village wells was revised downwards to 160 in 1983 because of increased cost per unit
of construction and th- low construction capacity in the project to carry out the target construction.
4/ Standards of construction would follow those *pproved by UNICEF. Direct costs allowed for Le 1,750
per well.
S/ New construction at a cost of Le 18,760 per km.
8/ Rehabilitation of unclassified chiefdom tracks at an estimated cost of Le 4,100 per km including the
cost of repairs of bridges and culverts. The total maintenance cost of the chiefdom tracks vas
estimated at Lo 46,760 per annum.
Comments:
Crop development was constrained by shortages of quality *eed, lack of mobility, and difficulty in
obtaining credit and inputs. There was poor adoption of agricultural packages and therefore a constraint on any
significant improvement of yields. Yields of var;ous crops as determined by crop cuttings by the MAE unit
demonstrated little difference in favour of project fa-mers. No cash loans had been advanced to farmers in the
first thre- project years reportedly due to financi.l constraints. In both food and cash crop, and tree crop
development, there was need for strict supervision of field staff. Farmers had been reluctant to accept the
project due to previous mishandling of credit and inputs and repayments, past neglect of farmer super.'sion,
excessive emphasis on targets, poor farmer selection, and frequent suspension of disbursements by IFAD, IDA and
AD8.
A year before project completion, financial analyses of the recommended crop packages for upland and
swamp rice packages revealed that they were financially unattractive to the farmer. The success of the upland
rice sub component varied with the availability of seed. Technical problems dominated the development of swamps
with the result that mid way through the project the SAR swamp development concept was replaced by cultivation"
and provision made for technical advice and inputs to promote it. Late cash releases to farmers in violation of
a previously established schedule also contributed to reduced project credibility.
The trp* crop programi fared somewhat better with farmers responding positively to higher producer
prices. As of February 1986, the demnd by farmers for tree crop planting material exceeded capacity. In terms
of hectar-s to be planted, except for coffee where capacity relative to demand was high at 140 percent, all
other crops faced large shortfalls: oil palm, the most demanded crop, 20 percent, citrus 27 percent, mango 10
percent, guava 37 percent, and cocoa 70 percent.  Poor managent of nurseries resulted in high losses of
planting materials, and Improper plant watering and application of fortilizers led to nutrient deficiencies and
poor plant growth. An added problem was the quality of seedlings and their transportation over long distances
which was prone to reduce quality further. Technical improvemnts, proper upkeep of nurseries and their close
supervision were also important requirements that were not always met.
The targets for the construction of roads were excessiv-ly optimistic in the SAR. In early 1985,
even though CARE had agreed to shift, in the next construction season, to the construction of lower level of
chiefdom tracks using palm oil log bridges to reduce costs and utilize local labour, this was not done. In
fact, roads were being constructed to Class IV A standard using imported iron culverts. The wells program
proved to be overly ambitious, and as the project progressed the type of wells to be constructed and their exact
specification becam less clear and more costly to the project.



22
5. Project Costs and Financing
Appraisal Estimate                                 Actual
Foreign                         Local      Foreign
Local Costs   Exchoo Costs   Total                Costs  Exchonqo Costs  Total
(USI millions)                            (US3 millions)
Project Management                      0.7           1.8          2.5               na        ns            no
Extension, Training
A Agronomy                             1.6          2.4           4.0               no        na            na
Commercial Services                     0.6           1.2          1.8               no        no            no
Production Inputs                       2.0           2.8          4.8               no        no            no
Livestock Sorvices                      0.6          0.9           1.6              no         na            no
Engineering Sorvices                    0.9           1.0          1.9               no        no            na
Road Construction                       0.3           2.6          2.9               no         no           na
Consultancy and
Forestry Rosearch                    0.2           0.4           0.6              no         no            na
Monitoring and Evaluation               0.2          0.2           0.4              no         no            na
Contingencies                           2.7          4.6           7.3               no        no            na
---------------------------------------------____-___------------------__----__-------------------------
Total                         7.1         13.3           20.4              no        no            na
B. Project Finoncing
Planned
Loan/Credit
Source                                   A(r- m-nt            Final
(US* wil1l1)
IDA & IFAD                                     14.S
Personnel                                   2.2                  no
Vehicles A Equipment                        2.0
Road Construction                           -                    na
Buildings                                   0.3                  no
Operations A Maintenance                    2.6                  no
Production Inputs                           6.9                  na
Consultancy and Research                    0.6                  no
Co-Financing
IFAD                                         6.0                  na
ADF */                                       8.5                  no
Other External
UNDP                                        2.0                  no
Domestic
GOSL                                        2.7                  no
----------..---------------------------------------------------------__-----__---------------------------------
TOTAL                                    27.7
---------A----F----financing------------------------s----on------a__---parallel----------------basis.----------
&/ ADF financing was on a parallel basis.



23
S. Project Rosults
A. Direct Benofits
Appraisal            Estimated at         Eutimatod at
Indicators               Estimate            Closing Date 1/    Full Development 2/
Area developed (ha)
Upland Rico             10,760                 5,437                  na
Swamp Rico               4,000                 4,668                  no
Groundnut                4,886                 1,626                  no
Tres Crops                 304                   348                  no
Production (tons) 3/
Swamp Rico Pckg A         1,000                    na                   1,000
Swamp Rico Pckg B
Ist crop: Rice          3,000                    na                  3,000
2nd crop:
Groundnut                740                    no                    740
Maize                    16O                    no                     160
Sweet potatoes A
Cassava                440                     no                    440
Vogotable Crop Mix       16O                    na                     180
Upland Rico Type C
Rico                   2,400                    no                  2,400
Groundnuts               830                    no                  1,106
Tobacco 4/               195                    no                    260
Maize                     76                    na                    100
Crop Mix 6/              700                    no                    936
Fruit Troen 6/          150                     no                    200
Upland Rice Type D
Rico                   8,400                    no                  8,400
Grounduts              3,500                    no                  4,900
Maize                    226                    nn                    316
Crop Mix                230                     na                  3,220
Fruit Troe              5o00                    no                    660
Cassava                  840                    no                    840
Adopting farmers        13,000 7/               13,727                     no
Number of direct
beneficiaries           13,600 8/                 na                     no
Total number of
beneficiaries           17,000 9/                 na                      na
1/   No PCR mission took place.  The figuroe  refer to end March 1987, are based on annual sales of inputs to
farmers, and have been obtained from various supervision reports.
2/   Appraisal estimate.
3/   Incroental production at full devolopment starting project yoer 11-15.
4/ Tobacco grown under contract with Rokel Leaf Development Corporation- max. 0.13 ha/farmer (not subject to
improvement under the project).
5/   Crop Mix includes sorghum, millet, okra, gingor, beans and ymam.
6/   Includes citrus, mangoes and guava.
7/   The total number of farmers that would over the five year projoct period adopt Swamp Package A, Swamp
Package B, Upland Rice Type C (including tobacco), and Upland Rice Type D were estimated to number 1000,
3000, 2000, and 7000 respectively.
8/   Number of form families as opposed to others engaged in processing and trading expected to benefit from
considerably higher incoms.
9/   Equivalent of S0X of rural families in the project area that would benefit directly and indirectly.  The
figuro includes additional employment as a result of trading, rico processing, construction, transportation
*tc.



24
Note: The adoption rates *asume a uniform adoption of the package by 13,000 farmers, 8600 from the NIADP II
aroe end 4,600 froe the Phase I area. Production at project closing wee estimated on the assumption that the
respective yields as forecasted in the SAR would bo attained.
Comments:   In the absenco of a PCR mission or subsequent missions to the project area, it is not possible to
assoss tho project's direct benefits at full dovelopment. However, it is estimated that throe months before
project closing tho nurs-ries established under the project were producing 18600, 21600 and 49000 soedlings of
oil polm, citrus and coffoe respectively.
S. Economic Impact
Appraisal                  Actual
Estimate            At Final Dovelopment)
Economic
Rate of Return                                    21                      no
Underlying
Assumptions
Project life 1/                                    26                     na
Full deovlopment (years)                          11-26                  no
Shadow exchange rate (USS 1)                      Le 1.20                no
Average market wage (per ud)                      Le 1.60                no
1/ Includes 6 years grace.
Comments: It is highly likoly that the rate of return at full development was considerably lower than that
-xtimntad at appraisal since there wero large shortfalls in most of the physical targets in the crop production
programme, civil works, roads, and village wells.



26
C. Financial Impact 1/
Without            Future with
Project            Project            Actual
rose Value of Production
per hectare)
swamp rico                           431.0              1206.8             no
pland rice                          268.6               646.5             na
wamp groundnuts                       -                622.6              na
pland groundnuts                    249.0               498.0             no
aize                               461.5                887.5             no
itrus                                -               2,600.0              no
et Value of Production
per hectare)
swamp rice                           411.0              1041.8             no
upland rice                          248.6               63.65             no
swamp groundnuta                      -                  517.5             no
upland groundnuts                    234.0               408.0             no
maize                                441.6               666.0             no
citrus                                 -              2,360.0              no
etProfit after Costina
aiyLabour
swamp rice                           186.0               636.8             no
upland rice                           93.6               311.5             na
swamp groundnuto                       -                 266.0             no
upland groundnuts                    46.5                130.5             na
maize                                201.6               381.0             no
citrus                                  -             2,095.0              no
sturn pr Monday of
amily Labour
swamp rice                             2.7                 3.9             no
upland rice                           2.4                  3.6             no
swamp groundnuts                       -                   3.0             no
upland groundnuts                     1.9                  2.2             no
maize                                 2.8                  3.6             na
citrus                                  -                 13.8             no
---------------------------------------------------------------------__-
1/ In constant 1980 Leone-.
2/ values with project for 1990.
Comments:  All financial returns, by and large, are expected to have been adversely affected by constraints
impoc d by a shortage of vehicloe and Insufficient well-trained extension staff. In tree crops, while the
economic benefits of planting were recognized, extension staff were not trained In tree crop extension. Good
field practices and husbandry are important olementa in tro- crop farming and subsequent yields. Thus with the
lack of appropriate quality advice the actual yields and returns from those crops would accordingly have been
reduced. Coffee yields would also have been adversely affected by the poor quality of seodlings eoported to
have had low germination. The actual outcom Is expected to have been leos favorable for swamp and upland rice
as well since technical packages were perceived by farmers to hove been weak and were either not *dopted,
partially adopted, or adopted for only a brief period.



26
D. Studies
Purpose as
defined at                                                  Impact of
Studios                  Appraisal                                                    Study
Villago Wells            To evaluate the programme                                      no
for construction of villago
wolls in the Project area.
Training                 To evaluate the training                                       na
programme a nd coursoo on
management training givon
to NAPMU staff by training
institutions in the Projoct
:re:.
Tree Crops               Studies and fiold trials to                                    na
Potential               determine the potential for
the development of tree crops,
including cashownuts, coffee
cocoa in the Project area.
Tree Species             Roeoarch programm to determine                                 na
for fuelwood            appropriate tree species for use
as fuelwood.
7. Status of Covenant*
DOadline for
Covenant            Subject                                    Compliance               Status
Section 4.01 (h)         The Borrower shall, for purposes                October 16, 1981         Not fulfilled
of carrying out Part E (Hi) of the             (soon thereafter)
Project, promptly employ after the
Effective Date and thereafter
maintain, a training export in its
IPAM, whose qualifications and
experionce shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
Soection 4.06 (a)        The Borrower shall: appropriate and            Partially fulfilled       GOSL aware of
release on a quarterly basis the               becouse of .cute          implications
funds (other than the proceeds of              shortage of GOSL          but given tho
Credit), the Fund loan, the ADF                funds,                    seriousness of
Loan and UNDP Grant, necessary for                                       the constraint
the Borrowor to carry out the                                            is unlikely to
project and to maintain tho existing                                     increase funds.
lovels of agricultural production in
the project area, in tho imediately
following quarter, the amount of such
funds to be determined in accordance
with quarterly budgets submitted by
MAF.
Section 6.03             The Borrower shall, acting through             Roads have been           GOSL needs to
MOW, maintain or  ake adequate                 handed over to            provide MOW with
arrangements for the maintenance of            MOW, but they are         resoureoo and
the penetration roads included under           not maintained,           spare parts and
Part 8 (i) of th- Project.                                               does not appear
easy under the
current funding
crisis.



27
Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Ineuto
(St lfw s )i
Stage of
Project Cycle                               Actual
Through Appraisal                                       107 6
Appraisal through Board
Approval                                               79.7
Board .pproval through
Effectivyen.e                                           6.9
Supervislon                                              89 1
Total                                        288.2
-------------_---------------------------------------------------__----------__--------------------------------
B. Missions
Stage of     iMonth/ Number of  Days in  Specializations         Performnce Rating         Types of
Proiect Cycle  Yoar    Persons    Field      ReDresented !/          Status 6/            Problems c/
Through       09/79       6         104    a, b, c , d, -
Appraisal      12/79      1           6     a
Through        10/80      1           9     f
Board         02/81       1          10     f
Approval      03/81       1           a     o
Board         06/81       1          18     c
Approval to    10/81      1           2     f
Effectiveness
Supervision    12/91      6          26     e                            1
07/82      4          a      a  b(2), f                   2                     F,M
11/82      1           2     g3                                                 F
05/83      2          18     9, f                         3                     F
10/83     2           10     9,f                          3                     F
08/84      2           6     g, f                         3                     F,iM,O
03/8C      3        22.6    f, g, h                       3                     F,T
12/85     4           22    f (2), d, a                   4                     F
O/86     3           24    f, i (2)                      4                     F
03/87     2           21    f, a                          4                     F
a/ a = economist; b a agronomist; c * livestock specialist; d a forestry specialist; e = road engineer;
f * financial analyst; g a agriculturist; h a irrigation engineer;
b/ 1 = probloe-free or minor problems; 2 a moderate problems; 3 a major problems
c/ F a financial; i a managerial; T a technical; 0 = other



MAP SECTION



IBRD 152551
G   U   I   N   E   A
-10o                                                       { X              r_  _                 __SIERRA LEONE
_,.>0   \ /   ,;.i,NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
d                                                                                         DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
LIt 1 (        _ S -'^sr^./^ #                                                                Project Areo
Fii5te5ioq/ A    g 'rv                                           |                          -   -    Boundory of Phases I and 1
'.8 it X> Kobelot                                                                                                        -    -   Boundary between Phose I ond Phase II
Ka                            ~~~~~~~~Roatds
J r                                                              Somoi J . % N . . r To be Reconstructed to Seoled Stondard
)   PniowI*  ~~~~~~~~~~~~->  /      >9 ~~~~~~~~Main Roads
,               "7!t L   of  S }                  3 -                XMain Roods Sealed
Closs I31 A and  I3 Roads Constructed under Phase I (at June 1980)
Recommended Class IV A Construction under Phase II
KoemnAoy   !                                                                                  Other Roads (Condition Varies)
I     Seed Nurseries
u     Livestock Extension Centers
I  Livestock Training Center
,  )   voroOpo _gDer aSaloon,       z  XKomoboi   I\                                    I /aForm Service Centers
Matb.i                  ?         .-         ) .                   *         [                   ^ A      To be Constructed under Phase 1 (Main Centers, Sub-Centers)
(eobsdo U0, u g u g                       Z  Z   Already Constructed under Phase I (Main Centers, Sub-Centers)
----*ZRivers
_ M  \>                 z     u         ,         b  l             a o P \              )     /.>     -.  International Boundories
M.gab.r.                                                                                                                                                            9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or,n, 
I~~~~~~~~~Ar ,.I -TH ^                                                            - bAkt Moar  Akoingbi 
-                   KILOMETERS 0     *O       20      3,0     40      50O                                      ir..covoar
MAin
10 



