Document of
The World Bank                     FILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2990-SL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
SIERRA LEONE
FOR
A NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
March 18, 1981
This document has a restricted distributien and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         -          Le 1.05
Le 1.0          -         US$0.95
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Sierra Leone:                July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and measures In
this report are metric.
1 metric ton o                    0.98 long ton - 37 bushels
1 hectare (ha)         -          2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       -          0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF       African Development Fund
CARE      Cooperative American Relief Everywhere
EEC       European Economic Community
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
IADP      Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IDA       International Development Association
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAF       Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MOW       Ministry of Works
PEMSU     Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Services Unit
PMU       Project Management Unit
SLPMB     Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Sierra Leone
Amount:               SDRs 6.9 million (US$8.5 million)
Terms:                Standard
Project Description:  Over a five year period, the project would increase
food production and farm incomes by expanding the
assistance to small farmers begun under a Phase I
project in the Northern Province (Ref. Cr 568/Ln
1138-SL). Development of upland and swampland rice,
groundnuts, and maize started under the previous
project, which covered 4,900 km2, would be extended
to reach farmers in an additional 8,500 km2 area.
Fruit tree cultivation and livestock promotion would
be introduced. For these purposes, the project would
provide: agricultural inputs, credit, extension
services, feeder roads, village wells, and technical
assistance. About 13,500 farm families, or about 40
percent of rural families in the area covered by the
two projects, would benefit directly and eaLrn signifi-
cantly higher incomes. All of these families earn
below the relative rural poverty threshold for Sierra
Leone of $67. Taking into account the general im-
provement in agricultural services and the road and
well components, nearly 50 percent of the rural families
in the Phase I and II project areas would benefit.
Normal risks associated with projects of this kind would
be reduced by the fact that this is the second phase in
the area and would build upon the organizaltional
structure and techniques developed under the previous
phase. The main risks would be that difficulties in
strengthening the credit and extension services would
have an adverse effect on achievement of production
goals.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: I/
US$ Million
Local           Foreign          Total
Project Management                         0.7              1.8             2.5
Extension, Training and Agronomy           1.6              2.4             4.0
Commercial Services                        0.6              1.2             1.8
Production Inputs                          2.0              2.8             4.8
Livestock Services                         0.6              0.9             1.5
Engineering Services                       0.9              1.0             1.9
Road Construction                          0.3              2.6             2.9
Consultancy and Forestry Research          0.2              0.4             0.6
Monitoring and Evaluation                  0.2              0.2             0.4
Total Base Cost                            7.1             13.3            20.4
Physical Contingencies                     0.2              0.6             0.8
Price Contingencies                        2.5              4.0             6.5
TOTAL                           9.8             17.9            27.7
1/   Net of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.
Financing Plan:'
US$ Million
Local        Foreign       Total
IDA                              3.0             5.5          8.5
UNDP                              -              2.0          2.0
ADF                              1.9             6.6          8.5
IFAD                             2.2             3.8          6.0
Government                       2.7              -           2.7
TOTAL              9.8            17.9         27.7
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
Bank    FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual                         2.5    1.7    1.3    1.2    1.2    0.6
Cumulative                     2.5    4.2    5.5    6.7    7.9    8.5



- iii -
Rate of Return:        21 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 3166-SL, February 27, 1981.
Map:   IBRD No. 14746R






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO SIERRA LEONE
FOR A NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Sierra Leone for the equivalent of SDRs 6.9 million
(US$8.5 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Northern Integrated
Agricultural Development Project II. The African Development Fund (ADF) is
expected to help finance this project on a parallel basis with IDA with a
loan of US$8.5 million equivalent, repayable over 50 years including 10 years
of grace with an annual service charge of 0.75 percent. The International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is expected to help finance the
project on a joint basis with IDA with a loan of US$6.0 million equivalent,
repayable over 50 years including 10 years of grace at an annual interest rate
of 1 percent.  The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is expected to
contribute a Technical Assistance grant of US$2 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report, "Sierra Leone - Current Economic Position
and Prospects" (No. 494a-SL dated November 28, 1974) was distributed to
the Executive Directors. Subsequently, two updating Economic Memoranda (No.
1106-SL dated June 25, 1976 and No. 2153-SL dated June 26, 1979) have also
been distributed to the Executive Directors. A Bank economic mission visited
Sierra Leone in May 1980 and its principal findings are incorporated into this
report. Country data sheets are contained in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The economy of Sierra Leone is dualistic in character, a rela-
tively small modern sector co-existing alongside a large traditional agri-
cultural sector. For its source of income and growth, Sierra Leone relies
heavily on agriculture and mining, although in recent years depletion of the
country's richest mineral deposits has led to a decline in their relative
contribution to the economy. Diamonds, the largest export earner, accounted
for nearly 56 percent of exports in 1979.
4.        The agricultural sector, still largely outside the mornetized
economy, provides livelihood for nearly 80 percent of the population. Its
contribution to GDP, however, is around 35 percent, implying a low level of
agricultural productivity and food output per capita on the average. Rice
is the staple food and is grown by over 80 percent of the farmers, primarily
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the Eastern
Integrated Agricultural Development Project III dated December 19, 1980
(Report No. P-2929-SL).



- 2 -
for subsistence, although the country still faces rice shortages. Coffee,
cocoa and oil palm products are the major export crops and also the princi-
pal sources of cash income for the agricultural population.
5.        Sierra Leone's social and economic infrastructure is not yet well
developed. Although the extent of the road transport network is generally
adequate for its present needs, there is an urgent need for improved mainte-
nance and the development of feeder roads. The country has good water
resources, although the hydro power potential is still relatively untapped.
Only about 12 percent of the population has access to a safe drinking water
supply, mostly in the urban areas. Health facilities are inadequate and
infant and childhood mortality rates are among the highest in Africa.
Although the Government has in recent years invested quite heavily in edu-
cation, primary and secondary school enrollment ratios are low (37 percent
and 11 percent, respectively) and the country's illiteracy rate remains
high, around 85 percent.
6.        The dualistic economic structure is reflected in income disparities
between the modern and traditional sectors. With a population of about
3.3 million, average per capita GNP in 1979 was estimated at about US$250.
The average per capita rural income is around US$120 while it averages about
US$600 in the urban centers. About 23 percent of the population lives in
urban areas. The urban migration rate (4.9 percent) is relatively low
compared with neighboring countries; however, approximately 30 percent of
the urban population has an income level below the urban absolute poverty
threshold estimated at around US$105.
Economic Performance
(1) Production and Income
7.        During its first decade of independence between 1962 and 1972, the
financial resources available to Sierra Leone did not come under undue
pressure as a result primarily of a reasonable rate of growth in domestic
resources. Throughout this period, a nearly 5 percent growth in GDP per
annum provided substantial foreign exchange earnings and also contributed to
a satisfactory growth in public revenues. Beginning in 1972, however, this
situation changed. Diamond output began to decline, mainly as a result of
the depletion of alluvial deposits; there was a sharp increase in oil prices
in 1973 coupled with rising import prices of manufactured goods; and in 1975
the country lost its second largest source of export earnings when the only
iron ore mine closed due to rising production costs and a declining iron ore
grade. As a consequence, the GDP declined by 4 percent in 1975/76 and
remained virtually stagnant thereafter. During this period (1974 and 1979)
the growth of GDP was less than one percent (0.9 percent) per annum on the
average. With a population growth rate of about 2.5 percent per year, this
resulted in a sharp decline in already low per capita real incomes.



-3
(2) Fiscal Performance
8.         From 1973, the slowdown in economic growth and the erosion of the
export base were accompanied by a marked deterioration in fiscal performance
characterized by stagnating public revenues and expanding public expenditure
policies. During the period 1973 to 1979, while public revenues increased
an average of 12 percent a year, public expenditures grew about 21 percent
per annum and the overall budget deficit widened from Le 21 million in
1973 (about 6 percent of GNP) to approximately Le 114 million in, 1979 (about
13 percent of GNP). Fiscal and monetary expansion, financed largely by
short-term external borrowing, led to ever widening budgetary deficits, a
further deterioration in the balance of payments and a substantial increase
in the country's external debt burden. During the last two years, the
increase in expenditures was largely attributable to civil service salary
adjustments, expansion in the internal security forces and extra budgetary
spending related to the OAU Conference held in Freetown.
(3) Balance of Payments
9.         The impact of stagnant production on the balance of paLyments was
masked until 1974 by favorable export prices for Sierra Leone's major exports.
Consequently, the country's foreign exchange reserves remained at satisfactory
levels until the end of 1973. Difficulties began to emerge in 1974 and 1975
when import prices rose sharply as a result of the oil crisis an,d interna-
tional inflation, while export performance remained modest. In 1974 and
afterwards, the balance of payments began to deteriorate and shcw increasing
overall deficits. As petroleum consumption is relatively high in Sierra
Leone (mining, transport, power), the balance of payments position has been
particularly affected by oil price increases. The cost of petroleum imports
jumped from US$8 million in 1971 to about US$70 million in 1979, now claiming
more than one third of the country's export earnings. While world diamond
prices have remained strong in recent years, since the volume of Sierra
Leone-s diamond output declined, overall export earnings showed only modest
growth. Import demand, on the other hand, rose sharply with rising import
costs and expansionary fiscal and monetary policies. The overall balance of
payments deficit rose to US$43 million in 1979 from about US$7 million in
1974. Sierra Leone's net foreign exchange reserves which stood at around
US$36 million at the end of 1974, have declined steadily and remained tight
since then. In December 1980 gross official reserves amounted to US$32
million of which only US$7.7 million, equivalent to one week's imports, was
freely disposable.
(4) Development of Objectives and Development Efforts
10.        The country-s first National Development Plan (1974/75-1978/79)
was prepared with the assistance of the UNDP and the UN Department of
Technical Cooperation for Development.  The development strategy and objec-
tives stated in the Plan and many of its basic elements were well conceived
and articulated. Priority was to be given to the expansion of the productive
capacity of the economy and to a more equitable distribution of wealth and
incomes. Unfortunately the period of the Plan coincided with the rapid
depletion of the country's principal source of foreign exchange earnings and



- 4 -
a deterioration in the Government's fiscal performance. These factors
undercut the economic and financial resource assumptions underlying the
Plan. The Government's policies concentrated increasingly on short-term
financial problems and neglected the requirements of longer-term structural
adjustment. More recently, the Government began to focus again on medium-
term policies and formulated a three year public investment program (1978/79-
1980/81) as an interim measure and initiated preparation of a second National
Development Plan. The public investment program attempted to shift resources
to increased commodity production, particularly in agriculture. The second
plan, which will become operational starting from 1981/82, is expected to
address the question of structural adjustment and give emphasis to the
productive sectors together with income distribution objectives.
11.       Over the past five years, between 1974/75 and 1978/79, development
spending by the public sector amounted to Le 150 million (about 45 percent
less than the plan target, which was based on an annual GDP growth rate of
6 percent as compared with the actual growth rate of 0.9 percent). Out of
this total about 22 percent was spent on agriculture, 20 percent on road
transport, 17 percent on energy, 15 percent on social services and 25 percent
on other economic and general services. Of these expenditures, 17 percent
was financed by budgetary savings while the remaining 83 percent came from
external and internal borrowings.
Recent Measures for Economic Stabilization
12.       Faced with increasing difficulties with respect to balance of
payments, servicing of external debt and acceleration in the domestic
inflation rate, the Government of Sierra Leone entered into a one year
standby arrangement with the IMF in November 1979 for SDRs 17 million in
the second and third credit tranches. The stabilization program supported
by the standby arrangement included revenue raising measures, a limit on
public expenditures, restrictions on new external debt, tighter monetary
policy and adjustment in producer prices. The Government made satisfac-
tory progress in implementing the program, especially as regards revenue
raising measures and restrictions on short-term external borrowing. Following
IMF review missions in January and again in April 1980, Sierra Leone has been
able to purchase the full amount of the standby facility.
13.       The 1979/80 budget was drawn up in the light of the Government's
decision to implement a financial program to be supported by the Fund.
Fiscal policies under the standby arrangement were geared towards reducing
the budgetary deficits and inflationary financing, through additional revenue
measures and restrictions on public spending. Sierra Leone has been success-
ful in implementing the revenue measures and curtailing the net government
borrowing from the banking system. However, there have been slippages in
the areas of government expenditures. Recurrent expenditures have so far
risen faster than program targets, while capital expenditures on OAU-related
projects are estimated to have exceeded the initially envisaged amount
of Le 100 million and to have reached about Le 123 million. The faster-than-
programmed increase in recurrent expenditures has been due primarily to



-5 -
unpredicted sharp increases in oil and other import prices, high levels of
rice imports, and weakness in implementing the newly centralized expenditure
control measures.
14.        Sierra Leone's external trade balance as well as current account
balance have improved modestly in 1979/80 as compared with the previous
year. Export earnings have increased by about 10 percent above the 1978/79
level as a result primarily of favorable export receipts from diamonds. The
total import bill on the other hand has been kept at a reasonable level
despite sharp increases in oil prices and higher-than-expected level of rice
imports. This was achieved through restrictive credit policies, intensifi-
cation of administrative controls on low priority imports, and through
centralization of the procurement procedures for the public sector. How-
ever, largely because of the heavy debt service obligations, the foreign
exchange situation has remained extremely tight throughout the fiscal
year.
15.       The highly expansionary monetary and credit trends of earlier
years were contained under the stabilization program.  As of June 1980, the
rate of expansion of money supply was substantially lower than the year
before (15 percent compared with 27 percent). During the first t:hree
quarters of the program period (June 1979-March 1980), net credit to Govern-
ment rose by 18 percent compared with an actual increase of 38 percent in
the comparable period of the previous year.
16.       The FY81 budget introduced new tax measures to yield an incremental
tax revenue of nearly Le 20 million, about 10 percent above the estimated
revenue outturn of the last year. The growth of recurrent expenditures is
restricted to 15 percent which, with the current inflation rate, implies a
virtually unchanged level of government activity in real terms. In October
1980, a 20-30 percent general wage and salary increase (the first since 1978)
was granted by the Government. Although not provided for in the budget, this
increase was accompanied by partially offsetting revenue measures on import
duties.
17.       Sierra Leone has requested further IMF support for a medium-term
economic and financial program under the Extended Fund Facility to start at
the end of the standby period. The Government and the IMF have recently
completed negotiations and consideration by the IMF Board is expiected in late
March 1981. If approved by the Board, the program will enable Sierra Leone to
purchase about SDR 186 million over the three-year period starting from the
Board approval date. The release of Fund resources in each year will be
subject to annual performance reviews by the IMP and observance of quarterly
performance criteria.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       In the face of slow growth in public revenues and export receipts,
Sierra Leone has, since the mid-1970's, relied heavily on foreign borrowing
to finance its capital expenditures. Total external public debt outstanding
increased by about US$132 million between 1975 and 1979. As of June 30,
1979 Sierra Leone's external public debt outstanding, including arrears of



- 6 -
principal, amounted to US$329.7 million of which US$277.6 million was
disbursed. The total debt outstanding and disbursed consisted roughly
of 47 percent in commercial credits, 28 percent bilateral loans and 25
percent loans and credit from international institutions. As of June 30,
1979, the Bank Group held about 13 percent of Sierra Leone's external debt
outstanding and disbursed. Assistance from bilateral government sources
came mostly from the Federal Republic of Germany, the People&s Republic of
China and the Netherlands.
19.       The maturity structure of Sierra Leone's external public debt
has deteriorated sharply since 1975 as a result of increased reliance on
supplier credits. The average maturity of all new commitments declined from
16 years (in the early 1970s) to around 5 years in 1978/79. The major
portion of the supplier credits obtained in 1978 and 1979 were contracted
in connection with projects related to the OAU Conference. Based on the
external debt commitments made until December 1979, it is estimated that,
without debt relief, the external public debt service payments for 1980
would stand around US$72.0 million, equivalent to about 33 percent of
expected export earnings and about 46 percent of expected government reve-
nues. Since this was unmanageable, the Government in November 1979 ap-
proached the creditor countries through the Paris Club and in February 1980
negotiated a second debt relief agreement. The total debt relief granted by
this agreement amounts to an estimated US$10 million for 1980 and US$7.5
million for 1981. After taking the debt relief into account, actual debt
service payments due declined from US$72.0 million to about US$62.0 million
in 1980. This latter amount represents 28 percent of expected export
earnings and about 40 percent of expected government revenues in 1980; debt
service is expected to remain at about this level in FY81 and FY82. There-
after it should decline, assuming Sierra Leone does not contract significant
amounts of new short-term debt. Debt service on Bank Group loans and
credits amounts to about 2.8 percent of Sierra Leone's total debt service
liability in 1980.
Future Prospects
20.       The next two to three years are likely to be extremely difficult
ones for Sierra Leone: the earliest revival of the economic activity is not
expected before the mid-1980's even with new investments in mining and con-
tinued investments in agriculture. During this period, while export earnings
may at best increase modestly, the cost of imports will continue their upward
trend, creating pressures on the balance of payments as well as the budget.
The balance of payments situation and the budget will additionally be burdened
with heavy debt service obligations falling due on previously contracted
short-term debt. At the time the Paris Club agreed to debt rescheduling for
1980, it also committed itself to rescheduling for 1981 and 1982, on the
condition that Sierra Leone continue to have a program with the IMF. Over the
next two fiscal years, therefore, continued stabilization efforts will be
required. In the medium and longer-term, it is foreseeable that Sierra Leone
will both restore and sustain its creditworthiness provided the Government
implements policies and investment programs aimed at the structural transforma-
tion of the economy. The future outlook of the mining sector in Sierra Leone
is difficult to assess in view of the limited knowledge of the extent of



mineral deposits. There are good prospects for kimberlite underground diamond
mining; large iron ore reserves have been discovered, but these are of low ore
grade; mining of rutile has just resumed and there are plans to expand bauxite
production. The proposed Bumbuna hydro power project could provide lower cost
energy to support these activities. A further intensification oi- the present
efforts in the agricultural sector should strengthen the country s renewable
resource base, increase export earnings from cocoa, coffee and palm oil, and
raise the standard of living and incomes for the vast majority of the country's
people. The implementation of programs designed to achieve structural trans-
formation will take time to implement and will require substantial flows of
external assistance on concessionary terms. Although the present balance of
payments situation and the country s debt profile would not just:Lfy lending on
normal IBRD terms, the country's low per capita income and its recent efforts
to improve economic performance justify extending IDA assistance.. At the
same time, to ensure an adequate flow of foreign exchange resources for the
country's development program during a period of budgetary stringency, it
would be appropriate to finance a portion of the local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE I/
Bank Group Operations
21.       Bank Group lending operations in Sierra Leone to date have totalled
US$66.6 million. There have been four loans amounting to US$18.7 million and
eight credits totalling US$45.8 million. IFC has provided a loan of US$2.1
million to Sierra Cement Manufacturing Company, Ltd. (SERACEM). Three loans
and four credits are fully disbursed. Bank Group lending has supported
agriculture (40.8 percent), education (15.9 percent), power (24.6 percent)
roads (14.7 percent) and technical assistance (4.0 percent). Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of January 31,
1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. In general, the execu-
tion of the ongoing agricultural and education projects has been satis-
factory, but implementation of the institutional aspects of the third power
project has encountered some problems mostly due to weak management.
Lending Strategy
22.       The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance to Sierra Leone
are to: (a) support improved economic management, including economic
development planning and project preparation; (b) stimulate agricultural
production with a view both to broadening the country's export base, e.g.,
cocoa, coffee and palm kernels, and also to helping attain self-sufficiency
in the production of staple foods; (c) improve the country's essential
infrastructure, particularly roads and power, the inadequacy of which
presently constitutes a constraint upon the country s economic growth; (d)
raise the income levels and standard of living of the poorest section of the
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the Eastern
Integrated Agricultural Development Project III dated December 19,
1980 (Report No. P-2929-SL).



- 8 -
population; and (e) broaden access to education, particularly in the rural
areas, and improve its quality. At the same time, the Bank Group aims
through its projects to encourage the adoption of appropriate sector pricing
and tariff policies and to strengthen the management and operations of the
relevant government departments and corporations.
23.       Since the halt in 1975 of iron ore production and the gradual
decline in the production of diamonds, it has become increasingly important
to develop the agricultural and manufacturing potential of the economy.
Bank Group-financed agricultural development projects have provided improved
extension services, feeder roads and farm inputs to smallholders affected by
the projects. These activities were started in the Eastern area under the
first project, and expanded under the second project which also initiated
similar assistance in the Northern area. A third agricultural development
credit in the East has recently been approved by the Executive Directors.
It would extend project coverage to the entire Eastern province and would
place added emphasis on production of coffee and cocoa in order to diversify
the country-s export base. The proposed fourth agricultural project would
be a second phase operation to expand smallholder activities in the Northern
province begun under the first phase. These ongoing and prospective opera-
tions will complement other integrated agricultural development projects
under way elsewhere in Sierra Leone with the assistance of the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the European Economic Community
(EEC). To ensure smooth assimilation of these projects into the Ministry of
Agriculture and help rationalize agricultural policies and the credit
system, an agricultural services project is being prepared for possible Bank
Group support. A possible industrial development (IDF) project may be
prepared to assist in financing small and medium scale enterprise develop-
ment in agro-industries, manufacturing and services.
24.       In infrastructure, the Bank Group's first highway project assisted
in the construction of the country-s main trunk road system, in implementing
a maintenance program, and in preparing studies for further improvement of
the road system. The proposed Second Highway Project aims at strengthening
the country's capacity to program and execute road maintenance. A third
project in the power sector, approved in 1977, is helping finance urgently
needed extension of electric power generation and distribution facilities in
Freetown and several provincial centers, thereby restoring a measure of
reliability in the supply of power required for sustaining the Sierra Leone
economy. The project is also intended to help strengthen the finances and
management of the Sierra Leone Electricity Corporation (SLEC). At the same
time, the project includes assistance for the preparation of the Bumbuna
hydroelectric scheme which is aimed at reducing the country's dependence on
petroleum-based power.
25.       In the social sectors, two education projects approved by the
Bank Group have been directed towards improving and diversifying education
at the secondary level, including teacher training, modernizing curricula
to increase the relevance of education to employment, encouraging rural and
non-formal training and strengthening educational planning and management.
Preparation has begun on a third education project which, inter alia, is
expected to support the Government's efforts to increase access to primary
education in the rural areas and improve its quality.



- 9 -
26.       To achieve its medium and longer-term development objectives,
the Government needs to improve its economic planning and project prepara-
tion capability. The Bank Group has already provided technical advice to
the Government in the formulation of its current three-year public invest-
ment program (1978/9-1980/1). In response to a request from the Government,
the Bank Group is also financing a technical assistance project which, in
cooperation with UNDP/TCD, is designed to assist the Government in the
formulation of a second National Economic Development Plan and the prepara-
tion of well-conceived development projects in a number of priority sectors.
27.       As noted in Part I of this report, Sierra Leone has experienced
serious economic difficulties in the last few years, and, as a consequence,
the level of Bank Group lending has been low. Continued improvement in
the Government's management of the economy will be important in determining
the level of future Bank Group lending.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
28.       The agricultural sector should play a major role in Sierra Leone's
effort to promote economic development and a more equitable distribution
of income. Conditions are suitable for a variety of high potential agricul-
tural production systems which can improve the income levels of the rural
poor as well as expand production of export crops and of food crops for
import substitution. The Southern and Eastern parts of the country have
climatic conditions suitable for tree crop production and support of a rural
cash economy. Conditions are less favorable towards the North, where the
longer dry season supports primarily a cropping system of shifting cultiva-
tion for subsistence.
29.       Rice is the staple food, accounting for over 70 percent: of the
cultivated area and grown by over 80 percent of the farmers. Annual in-
creases in rice production of about 8 percent were achieved for two years
in the mid-1970s as a result of increased swamp rice development and higher
prices. They were not, however, sustained, since they represented only a
temporary farmer response to a long delayed price increase; annual increases
currently average under 2 percent. Domestic rice production in 1L978/79 was
about 308,000 tons. Over the past 20 years rice imports averaged about 30,000
tons annually, but in 1979 imports reached 68,000 tons. The latter sharp
increase was necessitated in part by an unusually poor harvest caused by
insect damage but also reflects erratic Government purchasing and smuggling.
Over the medium-term future, Sierra Leone is expected to have an annual rice
deficit of about 40,000 tons.
30.       The chief export crops--coffee, cocoa and palm kernels---are
produced primarily in the East and South. In 1979/80 exports included 9,500
tons of cocoa (worth US$29.6 million) and 10,000 tons of coffee (worth US$36.2
million). Fruit trees, mostly citrus, are grown throughout the country, but
the subsector has received little development support, though a fruit
processing factory has recently been established in the North. Edible oils
are produced locally from oil palm and from groundnuts, mostly grown in the



- 10 -
North, but are insufficient to meet domestic consumption. About US$3.0
million worth of animal and vegetable oils are imported annually. While
sheep and goats are raised by pastoralists in the North, the contribution of
the livestock sector is only about 5 percent of agricultural production or
about 1.5 percent of total GDP.
Government Policy
31.       The first National Development Plan (1974/75-1978/79) assigned
high priority to agriculture and emphasized its development as essential
for achieving long-term economic growth, balanced regional development, and
equitable income distribution. The plan called for an overall growth of
the agricultural sector of 5.4 percent per year, self-sufficiency in rice
production, improved nutrition, and increased production of major export
crops. These goals were to be achieved through improvements in agricultural
services and institution of a production-oriented price package. The main
vehicle was to be the planning and development of integrated agricultural
development programs and projects covering the country's main agricultural
areas. Because of institutional and financial constraints, the plan proved
far too ambitious. But there have been significant achievements. About 30
percent of the country is covered by integrated aPricultural development
projects            E Eastern IADP and NortiieriL IAD.ui  -nanced by the Bank and
IDA), Magbosi IADP (financed by IFAD and appraised and administered by the
Bank), and Koinadugu IADP (financed by the EEC). Another three scheduled to
begin in 1981, together with the ongoing projects and proposed extension of
the Eastern and Northern IADPs, would cover in area about 80 percent of the
country.
32.       The second development plan, currently being prepared, is expected
to have the same basic goals, but to place greater emphasis on strengthening
the Government-s ability to deliver agricultural services. Under the IDA
US$2.5 million Technical Assistance Project approved in December 1979
(Cr. 970-SL), the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) will receive
assistance to strengthen medium and long-term planning of agricultural
policies and programs.
Agricultural Institutions and Services
33.       MAF comprises two divisions:  the Agriculture Division, which
would be the primary institution concerned with the proposed project, and
the Forestry Division. MAF's field operations are organized administra-
tively into five separate agricultural regions, which correspond roughly
to the provincial political boundaries. In general, MAF-s extension activi-
ties are ineffective because of inadequate motivation, poor mobility, insuf-
ficient operating funds, and cumbersome administrative procedures. The
externally financed IADPs have been insulated from these problems by having
adequate resources and clear objectives, and by operating outside the regular
MAF bureaucracy. In the Northern Region, two IADPs (Koinadugu and Northern
Phase I) function alongside, but separate from, the regional MAF structure,
causing problems of coordination and possible duplication of services.



- 11 -
34.       The Government is quite concerned about this situation, both
because of the administrative problems it creates and because of the recur-
rent cost implications of supporting the regular services and those estab-
lished under the projects. With Bank Group assistance, the Government is
taking a number of steps to resolve this problem and strengthen the Ministry
in a phased and comprehensive manner.
Bank Group Involvement in Agriculture
35.       The proposed project would be the fourth Bank Group lending opera-
tion to develop Sierra Leone's agricultural sector. The first IADP was
started with Bank Group financing in the Eastern region in 1973 and served
as a model for subsequent IADPs financed by the Bank Group and other exter-
nal agencies. The second Bank Group-financed project expanded coverage in
the East and initiated the IADP in the Northern region. A third phase
project for the East was approved by the Executive Directors on January 13,
1981.
36.       The first phase in the North commenced in 1976 and represented
the first major agricultural development effort in the region, which had
historically received less development assistance than the more favored
East. Due to initial delays, the closing date was extended from March 31,
1980 to June 30, 1981. Supplementary financing was provided by an EEC
Special Action Credit of US$2 million. Farmer response under Northern IADP
I has been good. The area developed for swamp rice exceeded expectations;
but the area developed for upland rice and groundnuts was lower than expected
due to seed shortages. Shortfalls have also occurred in road construction,
and farmer credit recovery rates are low.
37.       The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for the first IDA-
financed IADP (Report No. 2066) acknowledged that, despite the short three-
year development period and its pilot nature, the project was successfully
implemented. However, the PPAR noted that expatriates played a critical
role in project management and, upon their departure, weaknesses in project
authority became apparent. The PPAR, therefore, concluded that the project
did not succeed in its institution building efforts.
38.       Institutional weaknesses at both the local and nationail level,
such as those identified in the PPAR, have received considerable attention
from the Government and the Bank in recent years. Under IADP I, a Project
Evaluation and Services Unit (PESU) was established in MAF in Freetown to
support the projects, manage their financial accounts, and monitor their
achievements. In 1979, PESU was merged with MAF's Planning Unit into a
single Planning, Evaluation, Monitoring and Services Unit (PEMSU), which
is financed under Bank Group projects, but serves those financed! by other
external agencies as well. PEMSU-s staff, which includes an internationally
recruited financial controller and economist, has been effective in supporting
the projects and facilitating their relationship with the senior echelons of
the Ministry. However, PEMSU has, as yet, had little effect on management of
MAF as a whole which remains weak.



- 12 -
39.       The Bank Group is today assisting the Government in meeting its
basic goals of preparing an agricultural investment strategy, reforming
the administration of MAF in Freetown and in the field, and integrating
the projects and MAF to achieve a single cost-effective agricultural service.
First, under the IDA Technical Assistance Project approved in December 1979,
two long-term advisors will help prepare an agricultural investment program.
Second, under the recently approved Eastern IADP III, which extends project
coverage to the entire Eastern Province, project staff and regular ministry
staff will be combined into one provincial administration. Third, funds from
the Technical Assistance Project are supporting preparation of an agricultural
services project for possible Bank Group financing which would put into effect
a basic administrative reform of the ministry and would specifically address
the question of integrating agricultural services and rationalizing credit
systems.
40.       Integration would not be tried from the start under the proposed
Northern project, although it would be an important goal. This is because:
(a) the project is newer and less well established; (b) the region is more
backward; and (c) both the EEC and the Bank Group finance separate projects
in the Northern Province, but together leave uncovered some 30 percent of
the province. However, reforms designed to increase farmer involvement in
planning and decision-making will be implemented in the proposed project in
the North as well as in the East.
Marketing and Pricing
41.       The major agricultural marketing institution is the Sierra Leone
Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB) under the Ministry of Trade and Industry.
SLPMB markets the country's main export crops and has also taken over the
functions of the dissolved Rice Corporation, including the import of rice.
Producer prices for export crops are fixed by SLPMB in consultation with
the Government. The Government levies export duties on the basis of a fixed
percentage of fob prices. These taxes are relatively high, 35 percent on
coffee and cocoa; they had been lowered in early 1979, but were subsequently
increased in order to raise budget revenues. Groundnuts are marketed locally
by traders, and livestock marketing is also handled by the private sector.
42.       As part of its effort to achieve self-sufficiency in rice produc-
tion, over the last ten years, the Government has maintained producer prices
for rice at or above prevailing world market prices. However, farmers may not
receive the official producer prices in cases of indebtedness and pledging of
crops to traders. The project would reduce indebtedness to traders by provid-
ing adequate credit to farmers, thus effectively increasing the average
producer price. Insufficient empirical evidence is available to say for sure
whether higher producer prices would result in substantial increases in rice
production. In the Eastern Province, farm budget analysis shows that returns
to family labor are lower for rice than for export crops even with heavy
taxation on the export crops, and therefore rice would probably continue to be
grown mainly for subsistence. In the North, however, where limited alternative



- 13 -
crops can be grown, and where farm budget analysis indicates that returns from
rice production are adequate and the most attractive of the alternatives, rice
would continue to be the leading crop in the foreseeable future and increased
production could be expected in response to higher prices.
Rural Credit
43.       Little credit is provided to small farmers by either the official
lending institutions (the National Development Bank and the National Coope-
rative Development Bank) or the commercial banks. For this reason, under
each of the IADPs, credit facilities have been established. They have
experienced problems of low loan recovery rates and high administrative costs.
The proposed project would address the causes of poor performance in the North
which are thought to include weak administrative staff and procedures, insuf-
ficient links to traditional practices and village groups, pressures to lend
to meet targets, and inadequate legal follow-up on delinquent loans (para. 50).
In addition, in response to the Government s request for assistance to estab-
lish a nationwide agricultural credit system, consultants have been engaged
under the IDA Technical Assistance project to help prepare a project component
that might be included in the proposed agricultural services project.
This national credit program would reflect experience gained under the IADPs
and would provide for their eventual incorporation into the broadler scheme as
appropriate.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The proposed project would be a second phase of the Northern
region portion of the Bank Group financed Integrated Agricultura:L Develop-
ment Project II (IADP). The need for a follow-on project in the North was
identified in January 1979 during supervision. The project was prepared by
the Government and the FAO Cooperative Program between October 1979 and
February 1980, and presented to the Bank Group for financing in March 1980.
Appraisal took place in June 1980. Negotiations took place in Washington
from February 9 to 12, 1981. The Borrower was represented by a delegation
headed by Hon. A. Jackson, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. Significant
events and special conditions are summarized in Annex III. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Sierra Leone: Northern Integrated Agricultural Development
Project II", No. 3166-SL, dated February 27, 1981 is being circulated sepa-
rately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
45.       The project would increase food production and farm incomes by
expanding the Phase I project area of 10 chiefdoms (4,900 km2) to include
another 12 chiefdoms (8,500 km2) in the Northern Province. In addition
to the expansion of upland and swampland rice, groundnuts, and maize, which
were developed under Phase I, the project would promote fruit tree cultiva-
tion as a long-term cash crop and soil conservation measures. The project
would also promote improved livestock production, particularly by cultiva-
tors as an integral part of the farming system. In addition, the credit



- 14 -
facility established under Phase I would be strengthened. About 13,500
farmers, or about 40 percent of the farmers in the proposed and previous
project areas, would be direct beneficiaries of the development program. An
additional 3,400 families (10 percent of the area's population) would benefit
indirectly through extension service advice, better roads, and drinking
water wells.
Project Description
46.       Over a five-year period, the project would include the following
components:
(a)  reinforcement of the existing extension and other farmer
support services, by providing managerial, technical and
support staff, training, and associated vehicles, equipment
and housing;
(b)  expansion and strengthening of the existing system of credit
and input supply;
(c)  medium and short-term credit to finance inputs for the
de-elopment and cultivation of 4,000 ha , Tlaland valley
swamps and 20,000 ha of uplands, principally involving rice
(11,000 ha), groundnuts (5,000 ha), and cassava (1,000 ha);
(d)  plan-ting of 750 ha of fruit trees and construction of
bunds and other measures to counter erosion on the uplands;
(e)  introduction of support services and extension training
for livestock and improved animal production practices;
(f)  engineering services and construction of 80 km of penetra-
tion roads and 300 km of chiefdom tracks, 400 village
wells, and five staff houses;
(g)  technical assistance for supporting studies, forestry research,
and staff training; and
(h)  establishment of a small monitoring and evaluation cell.
Project Implementation
47.       MAF-s Permanent Secretary would have overall responsibility for
the project, but it would be managed on a daily basis by a semi-autonomous
Project Management Unit (PMU) located in Makeni and headed by an interna-
tionally recruited Project Manager (already in place) assisted by a locally
recruited Deputy Project Manager. As under Phase I, the PMU would be
supported in Freetown and coordinated with the other IADPs by PEMSU's
financial, administrative, and monitoring services (para. 38) and by the
internationally recruited projects coordinator, in the Office of the Chief
Agriculturist. A Project Executive Committee consisting of key MAF and



- 15 -
project officials would continue to be responsible for approving budgets,
monitoring expenditures, and reviewing quarterly and annual reports. At the
provincial level, a Project Coordinating Committee, composed of local admini-
strative and tribal authorities, farmer representatives, and senior project
management, would continue to serve as a link between the project and the
local community.
48.       For the reasons stated earlier (para. 40), no attempt would be made
initially to combine the PMU and regular MAF administration in the project
area. However, not later than June 30, 1984 (i.e., before the end of Project
Year 3), the Government would submit proposals to IDA for integrating the PMU
and other project units operating in the Northern Province under MAF (draft
Credit Agreement, Section 5.04). These proposals would be based on the MAF
reorganization which will be formulated as part of preparation of a proposed
agricultural services project.
49.       Agricultural Services.  The Training and Visit extension service
system which was successfully introduced under the Phase I project would
be continued and expanded under the proposed project. This system, which
relies upon effective training and contact farmers, would be strengthened.
Applied research would be carried out by the project to supplement the
recently started national Adaptive Crop Research and Extension Project
financed by USAID. Shortage of groundnut seed and, to a lesser extent, rice
seed was a problem under Phase I. The MAF Seed Multiplication P'roject,
assisted by the Federal German Government, has focused on rice seed and can
now supply sufficient quantities for the IADPs. Assurances were obtained
during negotiation that this seed would be provided to the proposed project
on a timely basis (draft Credit Agreement, Section 4.07). To meet its needs
for groundnut and other seed, the proposed project would employ an interna-
tionally recruited senior agronomist to establish and manage a project seed
multiplication unit.
50.       Commercial Services.  Distribution of agricultural inputs (includ-
ing seeds, fertilizer, and tools) and credit would continue to lbe managed by
the project Commercial Services section. A number of changes would be made
in the administration of these services in order to improve their efficiency
and loan recovery rates. To reduce administrative costs, the farmers would
collect the inputs at the service centers, which would be reduced in number.
In an attempt to increase loan repayment, loans would be made to groups,
whose leaders would have initial responsibility for collection. Closer
coordination with local administrative structures and legal procedures would
also be stressed. Interest rates would be increased from 8 percent for
development loans and 10 for seasonal loans to 15 and 20 percent respec-
tively and would be reviewed annually with IDA and adjusted if necessary
(Credit Agreement, Schedule 4 and Section 4.08). These rates are identical to
those agreed to for the Eastern and Magbosi IADPs. Assuming a medium-term
annual inflation rate of 15 percent, the interest rate for at least seasonal
loans would be positive. Development loans would finance payment of hired
labor to supplement family labor which the farmers would contribute toward
swamp development costs. The credit operations would be managed by a



- 16 -
locally recruited commercial services officer who would be assisted on a
half-time basis by the internationally recruited credit specialist to be
employed under Eastern IADP III. In addition, an internationally recruited
accountant would be added to the PMU to strengthen project accounting, espe-
cially in the Commercial Services Section. All loan repayment funds would be
retained by the credit facility to be used to finance new loans and credit
administration costs. To ensure that no such funds were used for other
purposes, a special account would be established (draft Credit Agreement,
Section 4.11).
51.       Staffing and Training.  The majority of the senior staff would
be retained from the Phase I project. While most positions would be filled
by Sierra Leone nationals, financial provision has been made for interna-
tional recruitment of five senior management positions, including the
Project Manager. As part of its commitment to cover the recurrent costs of
the previous project, the Government would finance staff from Phase I who are
needed to sustain earlier achievements.
52.       Since management training was inadequate under the previous project,
the proposed project would provide management training specifically tailored
to meet the needs of the project at the Institute for Public Administration
and Management. For this purpose, a qualified trainer in agricultural manage-
ment and development, financed by the project, would be appointed to the
Institute (draft Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(h)). Funds would also be
provided for overseas training.
53.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  A monitoring and evaluation cell
would be established at project headquarters. Consultants would be engaged
to assist in carrying out a baseline survey which would be started by
September 30, 1981 and completed one year later (draft Credit Agreement,
Section 4.01(g)). Analysis and processing of the data would be performed by
PEMSU/MAF headquarters staff in conjunction with similar work being done for
the other IADPs.
54.       Civil Works.  The project would include the construction of some
80 km of all-weather penetration roads and the reconstruction of some 300 km
of chiefdom tracks which are needed to distribute farm inputs, provide
extension services, and market produce. The Ministry of Works (MOW) would
be responsible for the road program. However, MOW does not have the capabi-
lity to build and maintain feeder roads itself at this time. Furthermore,
since the work would consist of a large number of geographically dispersed
small jobs with varying specifications, it would not be suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding. For these reasons, MOW would execute the
roads program by means of a negotiated contract with Cooperative American
Relief Everywhere (CARE), a non-profit agency which has built similar roads
under the ongoing project and will do so under EIADP III. The standards to
which the roads would be built would be spelled out in the contract which
would be approved by IDA (draft Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(c)). The
road construction work would be supervised by the PMU's engineering services



- 1~7 -
unit which would also supervise construction of the 400 village drinking
water wells, the mechanical repair workshops, and staff housing. The
all-weather roads would be maintained by CARE for two years, with financing
from the Government, after which the responsibility for maintenance would be
turned over to MOW (draft Credit Agreement, Section 4.01 (c) and 5.03).
MOWs maintenance capability would be strengthened during this period under
the second highway maintenance project. Under the latter project, consul-
tants will prepare recommendations on maintenance of all roads, including
penetration and chiefdom tracks. It is likely that responsibililty for the
tracks will ultimately be delegated to chiefdom authorities using mainly
local labor.
Project Cost and Financing
55.       Total project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties (from
which the project is exempt), are estimated at US$27.7 million, of which
US$17.9 million, or about 65 percent, would be foreign exchange require-
ments. The recurrent costs of maintaining the activities (including roads)
started under the Phase I project (currently estimated at about Le $500,000
annually) have not been included in project costs, but would be an obligation
of the Government to advance on a quarterly basis (draft Credit Agreement,
Section 4.06 (a)). The base line cost estimate is based on mid-1980 prices
updated to end 1980. Cost estimates for civil works (swamp development,
roads, wells, and buildings) are based on experience in the first-phase
Northern IADP. Incremental farm input costs are based on farmgate prices.
Local staff costs reflect current civil service scales. Internationally
recruited staff costs (US$80,000 - US$85,000 per man year) reflect prevailing
market conditions. Costs of consultants are estimated at US$11,000 a month,
inclusive of travel and subsistence. Physical contingencies of 5 percent have
been added for civil works, equipment, non-labor farm inputs, and operation
and maintenance, amounting to 4 percent of total base cost. Anticipated
annual price increases, amounting to 31 percent of total base costs plus
physical contingencies, reflect projected inflation rates: for local per-
sonnel costs, 5 percent; for local civil works and operation and maintenance
costs, 15 percent in 1981, 13 percent in 1982, and 10 percent from 1983
onwards; for the foreign exchange component, 9 percent in 1981, 8.5 percent
in 1982, 7.5 percent in 1983 to 1985, and 6.0 percent in 1986; and for inter-
nationally recruited personnel 8 percent per annum in keeping with UNDP
guidelines. Based on these calculations, total price and physical contin-
gencies equal 26 percent of total costs and 36 percent of base costs. A
summary breakdown of costs is shown at the beginning of this report.
56.       The African Development Fund (ADF) has agreed in principle to
finance US$8.5 million equivalent on a parallel basis, the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has agreed in principle to finance US$6.0
million on a joint basis, and the UNDP would provide a technical assistance
grant of US$2 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$8.5 million, the ADF and
IFAD loans, and the UNDP grant would together cover 90 percent of total
project costs, net of taxes and duties (100 percent of the foreign exchange
costs plus US$7.1 million equivalent of local costs). The Government contri-
bution of US$2.7 million would cover the remaining local costs. The IDA
credit would finance US$5.5 million, or about 31 percent, of the total foreign
exchange costs and finance 60 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the



- 18 -
following components: vehicles and equipment, production inputs, buildings,
an internationally recruited accountant, and consultancy services. In
addition, the credit would finance about US$1.9 million of the domestic
costs of the above categories as well as US$1.1 million of the local per-
sonnel costs. The UNDP grant of US$2.0 million would finance 15 man-years
of expatriate technical assistance and support services for the project.
The IFAD loan would be for 50 years, including 10 years of grace, at one
percent per annum, and would cover the remaining 40 percent of the foreign
exchange cost of the components financed by IDA, and US$2.2 million of local
costs. The ADF loan would be on the same terms as the IDA credit and would
finance the local and foreign exchange costs of the livestock services and
engineering units; the foreign exchange operating costs of the commercial
services unit; and the foreign exchange costs of the roads component. The
Government's contribution of US$2.7 million, or 10 percent of total project
costs, would cover mostly local personnel and operatonal costs. A condition
of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be that all conditions precedent to
the effectiveness of the UNDP grant and IFAD and ADF loans had been fulfilled
(Credit Agreement, Section 7.01). In view of the financial constraints facing
the Government, it would be desirable to prefinance certain local expenditures
which would be financed from the proceeds of the IDA credit and IFAD loan. It
is therefore proposed that IDA and IFAD jointly deposit a total of US$100,000
equivalent into a special bank account for this purpose. IDA and IFAD would
replenish the account upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that such expen-
ditures were eligible (Credit Agreement, Section 3.02 b, c, d, e, f). The
management of the account and preparation of certified expenditure claims
would be the joint responsibility of the Project Manager and the Financial
Controller of PEMSU. IDA has recommended that ADF establish a similar revolv-
ing fund for the road construction component, which would be carried out for
the Government by CARE (para. 54), a non-profit organization which does not
itself have the necessary working capital.
57.       The project management, in collaboration with PEMSU, would pre-
pare an annual budget and estimates of quarterly requirements which would
be submitted to MAF for approval. On the basis of the approved budget, the
Government would: (i) make appropriate allocations in the MAF budget and
release the necessary funds, for the proposed and previous project, to MAF
quarterly in advance and (ii) make timely allocations of the necessary for-
eign exchange for imports of recurrent farm inputs and other goods required
under the proposed and previous project (Credit Agreement, Section 4.06).
PEMSU, which set up and satisfactorily supervised the project accounts
under Phase I, would continue to do so under the proposed project.
Procurement
58.       All goods and services financed under the IDA credit and IFAD
loan would be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Contracts
valued at US$75,000 or more, for vehicles and equipment (US$1.5 million)
and for fertilizer (US$1.2 million), would be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB); purchases would be grouped into packages
of at least US$75,000 whenever possible; contracts for items estimated at
less than US$75,000 but more than US$10,000 (US$1.5 million) would be



- 19 -
procured through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA, or
limited international bidding. Contracts of less than US$10,000, for small
items such as fuel, spare parts, office supplies, tools, transportation of
farm inputs, pesticides and seedlings (US$5.2 million), would be procured
through limited local tendering based on at least three quotations. Hired
labor for swamp development (US$2.0 million) would be secured from the local
market. The services of local personnel (US$1.9 million) would be recruited
from existing Phase I staff or the local market in accordance with Govern-
ment procedures. Materials for building wells and workshops would be procured
under the above procedures, and the construction would be carried out under
force account. Contracts for buildings (US$0.3 million) would not be attrac-
tive to foreign contractors due to their small sizes and dispersed locations
and would, therefore, be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Domestically manufactured
goods would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the level of applicable
import duty, whichever is lower. The services of internationally recruited
staff and consultants (US$0.9 million) would be procured in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Goods and services financed by ADF (US$8.5 million) would
be procured in accordance with their procedures. The UNDP contribution of
US$2.0 million would be for technical staff and IDA would act as the Executing
Agency. The Government contribution of US$2.7 million would be mainly for
local costs of staff salaries, production inputs, and operationaLl expenses.
Disbursement
59.       The proceeds of the IDA Credit and IFAD loan would be disbursed
according to a 60:40 ratio over five years as follows:
SDR          Amount
Category                  Terms                   Million      US$ Million
1.   Production        100% of foreign exchange costs   5.0              6.1
Inputs             95% of local costs
II.   Civil Works       100% of foreign exchange costs   0.3              0.4
- Buildings        95% of local costs
III.   Vehicles &        100% of foreign exchange costs   1.5              1.8
Equipment          95% if purchased locally
IV.   Consultant        100% of foreign exchange costs   0.7              0.9
Services &
Senior Accountant
V.   Staff              65% of costs of local salaries  1.4              1.7
up to a maximum of
VI.   Operating         100% of foreign exchange costs   1.8              2.2
Expenses           90% of local costs
VII.   Initial With-                                        0.1            0.2
drawal for
Special Account
VIII.  Unallocated                                          1.0            1.2
11.8          14.5



- 20 -
Disbursement against vehicles and equipment, civil works, seeds, and salaries
and allowances of internationally recruited staff would be fully documented.
Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure for force
account civil works, local staff salaries, and minor miscellaneous research
items.
Financial Implications for the Government
60.       The project would not generate directly any revenue to the Govern-
ment since the commodities to be produced under the project are not taxed.
Consequently, the Government cash flow would be negative, which is typical
for such a project. The recurrent costs for administration, extension and
other services, and roads maintenance under the Phase I Northern project
amount to about Le 500,000 and would be financed solely by the Government.
The annual Government contribution for Phase II development would average
Le 600,000 during the five-year investment period. The annual subsidies on
fertilizers (under both phases) are expected to decline from about Le 100,000,
in year 1 to about Le 58,000 in year 3 and then be removed altogether, since
the Government has agreed to a phased removal of the subsidy by 1985 under the
Eastern IADP III. The recurrent costs for maintaining the services of the
Phase II project would be about Le 1.0 million at the end of the investment
period.
Benefits and Risks
61.       Since Sierra Leone is a net importer of food, the incremental food
crop production would represent considerable potential annual net foreign
exchange savings. By 1990, the incremental annual output of rice and ground-
nuts would be worth, at border prices, at least US$7 million (in constant 1980
terms) net of foreign exchange costs of farm inputs. The incremental produc-
tion of the other commodities--maize, cassava, mixed vegetables and other
crops, citrus, and livestock--would have an annual net value of at least the
equivalent of US$2.4 million on the domestic market.
62.       An estimated 13,500 farm families (40 percent of all rural families
in the Northern IADP I and II areas) would earn significantly higher incomes
under the various crops and livestock improvement and credit programs; per
capita incomes would increase between two and threefold. All these families
currently earn per capita incomes below the relative rural poverty income
threshold of US$67 for Sierra Leone. By full development--1987 for the food
crops, 1991 for the citrus and fruit trees--annual on-farm employment would
increase by about 1.5 million mandays. The improvement of the road network
and the provision of village wells would reach beyond these direct benefi-
ciaries to a considerably larger proportion of the rural population. Addi-
tional employment would also be created by the increase in the level of
economic activity which would be induced by the project in other sectors such
as trading, rice processing, construction, transportation. It is estimated
that nearly 50 percent (17,000) of the rural families in the project area
would benefit in some way under the proposed project.
63.       The estimated economic rate of return of the project is 21 per-
cent. Since the proposed project would be the second phase in the area and



- 21 -
would build upon the organizational structures and techniques developed in
the first phase, normal risks associated with this type of project would be
minimized. The major constraints to self-sustaining project achievements
would be difficulties in: (a) achieving an expanded and effective extension
service; (b) improving the recovery rates of the credit program; and (c)
maintaining an adequate and timely flow of farm inputs. In an attempt to
reduce these constraints, this second phase project would emphasize organiza-
tion and management. Training for crop and livestock development would be
strengthened and the credit program would be restructured with the half-time
assistance of a credit specialist (para. 50).
64.       Sensitivity analysis indicates that the project would remain eco-
nomically viable under various adverse conditions. Yields would need to fall
by about 15 percent for the project to become unviable. The project would
still be viable if adoption rates were only about 85 percent the anticipated
level or if real prices declined by about one-sixth of their projected levels.
By comparison, under Phase I, where relatively less fertile land was developed
and shortages of seed occurred, total production of all project promoted crops
in 1980 was 85 percent of appraisal targets.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Sierra Leone and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
66.       In addition to the features of the Credit Agreement which are
referred to in the text and listed in Annex III, a condition of effectiveness
of the IDA Credit would be the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the UNDP grant and ADF and IFAD loans (Section 7.01 of Credit
Agreement).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 18, 1981



- 22 -                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                     Page  1  of  5  pages
SIRRA LIEN  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SRN2E
SIERRA LEONE                 REFERENCE COUPS (WEIGBTED AlAiES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. IIH.)                                                  - MST RECENT ESTIMATE)3
TOTAL            71. 7
AGRICULTURAL     63.0                                MOST RECEDT          IN INCOHE              MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUT! OF SMARAA  AFRICA SOUTH OF BAMARA
GNP PER CAPITA (55)                    ..       150.0    250.0                 260.0                 968.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(CILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     31.0       127.0      98.0                80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     2.2         2.7       3.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.0       18.1      23.1                17.3                   28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      6.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACRED                2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      31.0        38.0      46.0                27.4                   61.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    35.0        43.0      52.0                82.6                  126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        41.8        42.0      43.7                44.9                   45.5
15-64 YRS.                        55.0        55.0     53.0                 52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.2         3.0       3.3                 2.8                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1. 8        2.2       2. 5                2.7                    2.7
URBAN                             3.9         5. 5      5. 7                6.8                    4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0        46. 0     46.0                47.4                   46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0        22.0      19.0                19.6                   16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         2.9       2.9                 3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         98.0        99.0      98.0                91.8                   94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  85.0        96.0      93.0                90.2                   92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         43.0        47.0      48.0                53.0                   53.0
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      13.0        14.0      17.0                18.4                   15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    41.0        32.0      27.0                27.7                   21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0        42.0      46.0                45.3                   50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..         ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        12.0       *-                 23.2                   31.0
URBAN                              ..        75.0        ..                58.O                   66.8
RURAL                              ..         1.0       ..                 16. 8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..                 28.9
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..                 67.0
RURAL                              ..         ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        19956.0    18067.0        ..              30910.4                14508. 2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    5904. O/c   3602.0       ..               5793.2                 3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1312.0      1095.0       ..               1198.9                 1141.5
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
ADMllSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..         ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              *          6.5
URBAN                              ..         5.7
RURAL                              ..         6.7
AVERAGE NUM8ER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         2. .J.
RURAL                              ..         ..        .                    ..                     .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
O1 DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..                   ..                     .
RURAL                             2.0/         ..       ..O



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
SIERRA LEONE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SIERRA LEONE                   REFERENCE GROUPS (HIEICGTED AVtRAGES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE' a
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOtE              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  t     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OP SAHAPA  AFRICA SOUTH OP SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJISTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PMEARTY:     TOTAL                  23.0        34.0       37.0                  57.7                      61. 7
KALE                  30.0         41.0      45.0                   74.2                     69.2
FINALE                15.0         27.0      29.0                  54.1                      51.A
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0         9.0       11.0                  10.0                      20.6
MALE                   3.0         13.0      15.0                   13. 7                    29.2
FEKALE                 2.0          5.0       7.0                    7.1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL FNRG-. (I OF SECONDARY)   9.0            3. 0      2.0                    6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRDSARY                             36.0        32.0       32.0                  45.0                      36.6
SECONDARY                           17.0        21.0       19.0                  25.2                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          7.0         15.0      15.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS FER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2. 0        9. 0       6.0                   3.6                      38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.0        15.0       21.0                  31.5                      83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.2/e        1. 1      2.8                   1.8
NEiSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    6.0         17.0      10.0                   4.6                      24.2
CINEMA ANlAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0. 1           0. 1        ..                     ..                      0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        910.5       1055.6    1222.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35. 7        35.0       35.0                  33.5                     38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               77.7         71.5      67.0                  80. 7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.7        14.8       18.0                   8.1 7. 8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.1         39.9      38. 7                 42.2                      38.8
IAALE                                 54.6         52.3      51 1                 55.1                      48.4
FEMALE                                29.8        27. 7      26.5                  29.5                      29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1. 1         1.2       1. 3                   1.2                      1. 3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS       ..        33- 8/f
HIG'dEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         64.1f        .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         4.5f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        10. If
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                 138.2
RURAL                                ..           ..       54.0                  86.1 
EST70ATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       78.0                 107.0
RURAL                                 *-          *-       67.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..       35.0                  66.9
Not available
Hot ap pl cable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962;  /d 1967;  /I  1963;  /f Population.
host recent esEimate of GNP per capita Is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 19F0



- 24 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
WUINITIUD OF SOCIAL aIDIATORS
Htotem    Although the data are drov  fe.- Ious geerll  judged the mast etheritattve nd refloble, ic should  ite be noted that they may  ot be inter-
nationall  comparable be..ause of the leck of staderdleed de itittn   and  -oncpt. need by different  -oucorle  Io ullsctiog the deta.  The date Ars,es-
thb1i..se . usful tob describe orders of magitude. ieditoo   treede. and thrcelectoemjor diffe- -ce   heb eo  osres
Th Iereec    rop   ,t (I) the   -      -outr  goup of ths .objeot coun try end (l) & -cctry troop etch aeeebut highst avrae  ec                   than the co.-try grou.p
ofThe suf:bjtotr Ceopfr 'Cptl Srplu  OIl tepercers" grop oer  'Stiddle lcce,  North Afrirs sod Middle tactI  chosnbeoe...uof stronger
oolo-cuIturel affinitiesl.  In the refernc  grewp dots the  -erege  are pepu,ltin weighted  rtthmtic m-o  for etch Indictor sed eboee only Meei at
mee:t half.cf the  outtri.se Ie A group has detn for that  odicent-   ti.os the  nvereg  of ooeroeeog the indicetors depends on the eeilcbility of
deem  sod Is not -ifo.-, cautio   n.ct be- en i           Iiso..clrIgncac  of .or indioctor to coc-bee   These.. evroges  ro only soeful In o.                 te   the v-lu
of one indicsto  It I tie- aug  the coutry end reeoc  groopt
LAND AREh (thousand eq.km.)                                                                    Poolt..     Oc.hy       e     Popultion divided by nomet r tpranCtico   ply-
Total - Total eufa    ores copiingled Area .nd inland octts.c                                  elis   qulifie  fron A  edicol echoo  at uiv-rsity leve.
Agrioo1tuta1 - tetimane of eri .lu           ...ee  used t   srb         orPsrmoetlY         Po.,, ie  oc r No.r.m   Person - Pptletion divided by otebhe  of pe..cticina
for crops, potoe.skat end kitchen garden  or to lie fallen: 19y7 dons,                      ale  end femal  grduane  Pue           T. peticol nurses        . eselnst ee-
Peeuation ne  tnitalled     toa. orben  end rurl - Peelatiu    (total,
IMP  ta  APIA (Sf)-GNP pet .opit. ostimetee en ourrn   -atkt price ...cl -                 ura,an   oa)dtld by  her tepoiesfe  o                             ptlbd
olted by   _       -s cuv ioo  method em World tack Atlas. (1977-79 hacto); 1960,           awellble to public sod private genre  sad epocIeiIed hepirs1 end   -
197t, sod  1979 dare.                                                                          hahili.tsiooccrr . topitele  are ectblieete  psceIIIly   tAffsd
ttflt  OI0IMTIE P!  APIA -Asua. cns.tln o  crls   enrg  (cal             by otleal on  pbyelIIIn.  IatbIllhotm  peovidig principally  ntedi.ml
ENERY CYSITUT.IO _ p9 CAP.TA   A-w    .-Wi..     .- i1 -.gy (.           osretsre   o  iecldod~ . -Ire  ho-pitalo, howeve, i-olud  health             med ical
end lignitc. petroleum,  atur   toe s..ad hydro-,.. uucls  ma  geotheslI1c-                    cetrsnt pceme-atly etaffd by a phy.icious (but by I medIcal cee.tet,
triclity) LA kilogram   of cl cqaivlent pee capita: 1960, 1970, 5l  1978                       nuse      dif,, stc.) which offer ic-patient             dtined proide
dato.                                                                 lim~~~~~~~~~~~~~itcd  eege of medical fciliti-n  For mestisunl purposes urban bopi-
POPULATION AID VITAL STATISTICS                                                                  t.Is include Vs  pri,rcipo.1 g-ara  ed ep.cieliend hopitele, ad   -1m
-tim,  id-Y-r(,Illi.   - A.f J.ly1; 196, 1970  mdhospital. Iuosl or tur   h.epist  so d medical ed eternity naam
Ttal  Porlatc.  I-er(ilo.      oo   cy1   90   91   n   98                                Admeionie per foceital Dod - Ttal cubar of edmlmio.. to or   chre
dots.                ,-     ftt1       t~-   c-t   .AlP..i.                                   fc tonhopito1o divided by the number of beds.
difernt  efeitoe   ofuran  re .,my  ffect com rsbl~ity of data                   HOUSIG~
Pomengi cOactrioau90   99  ad17   aa                                                       Average Sian of HE.u.ahold (emn  per hbou.ehold) -total. urbe. sad o"mel-
FPupuCletlun Preijentiotieo-  b ..Adhowesbld   oit   fagopo  indiriduals whoshre  ilgqan
Poructio   in  ee  2000 -'ore   oueinprjoin    r   m                     no 190         ad their maem.            A horder or lodger may o  may non ho  .Inlded In
toa  ppltion by  gs en   Ioosd theIr mertolity cad fertility  coto.                 the household for  itloticail purposes
Projectionprmtr  fe.otaiyeae   oprise of three levls I                                  Avacat nuberofcrnepr.m-tta.ub.serrl-Avstae-
InlIfe eapctnc   ebIrth  icecn    ith country's per cc.pits.noe                         hro  proeptre is.           . all trh, ad. lb-, -oeid rconventionalg
leel  end femle lift  npectenoy stbilising at 77.5 y55t5.  The   r-                        .   f5tp do I-g I repotively. Delnc  enld    r-poreVen  -eticots  n
matere One fertility ret  aloe have three leel  amuie  d-olino in                        ud-ccupief yorce.llg    11d,-
frtiity ....ording to tu-m  len1 so  paint family pleoigs performanc.                  Ances. tn Mlrtctioty Cecroen.t of del1iege) - total.- urban. andrua-
tach o-onry Is thee aemigmed one of thee aine cobinatino of nertoliy                      Covntsadeligwth lctttyLlIngqreeasprete
nod frtIlIty trend  for projection  -pur e.                                               o   os,  ra,uc   uadeligrspci y
Stationar  nonulooli n-In   stationay popoleti- there LA no growh ci..nc1                                 b...d..'dlig  cpl-y
the birth rate I  equal to cha dmath rots, med clcn Ohs see           -trc ur  i-     SGUOldt,ff
nie etant.  This Le achieved nay after fertlprto  aecAineito
the roplancmmt leve  of -it net otmprodctine rats  ehe. noonh go.e.stioc                OdlstdtE-olleent Da
Prmr _col-_oa,ml   n  fml-iGoec  total, male andtml
of wmnr .p..a iteeIf enatly.  The etationay populationms-                  a                  noleto    l  oeo  th  pimr  lve   s  eretaeofrsote
oeI. h.y.d on 0- the ateo  cbs. pfjstd a charauferIcrtcso  the vrupletoprimary  -choul-age  pouatos    1elyIcldscidre  agd 6-1
inth  yer20,sd  b   aeo  dcieo   ar  lt   ee  orpae                                         ycerc but adjoetod for di ffeenIInthe of primary education: for
ment level....d     h    -r--t.i c   .pic.                                                    contrcie with onlcres  educetin err...lleet say agreed 100 parnent
herentenr b    oueinl  eahd-m    er  hneo nr  pnpclstot                                    cmo  com  pupils Ire beln or shov  thc offitoLA1 school ag.
clot baDbserechd                                                                          Secon.dary enho1 -  totl, male cad fe.cln - Computd Am shov; secondary
P.r  q.  ..   Kld--r pp..ti- Prq"c. ki-t.r (DO h..tc-)  feducaio  reure   tlct fuymrof approved primary itrmation;
Per me hec i-erpplto    e   qat   lctr(0   etre   fpoidesgn-                                                  l  oAtoI l  or teach  training icatrutlo     for popik-
tona   sed    C.t                                                                             neb-nol1-  - ly of 12 to 17 yecoe of egs: cnrrcp-dace  core   r   eealy
OtOlP7                      p        hid-(-4   -- ,-kg... Petionl enrollmet CP rtent of eennarl   Vocotinnal inetitotion
Psolamo  Aegette(ent)-bidm CDVpee)*wkn-ae(15-                                                  Vinclde       hoc    industrial,for otherprogram   which operate indmpe-
64et -on; 1.6D, 1970,.,end&1 ftidata.                                         pp-              dently or as depect-mte of occ-nder  intitoti-ne
I=-   0. .11.10t.-dr1.111cd,t.  ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        Puro-tehrrai  - primay   n  scaay- Totaletde1                          erlld In
toeslaien Oceth Mae Ceeremn  -total - Anea  growh rates of total ald-                primary and  -aodary level  dividod by nobar  ofteacher. In the
Yerppaiosfr1 -D19-7. ad 1970-y8.                                                               ccresspeding" leel.
Pneuaimo  Drwik  ate   omet) - urban1  - Aaeual growth rates of urban ppo-              Adult litracyI rate`p Cear.et) - Litnrets edolt  (able to read cod write)
lein. r1906.c t=6   7, so-90P.a  a parcen.toto of tute1 sdu1c populatlan egd 15 yare and over.
Crude tice   ae rth       oeRee) - Aoesl live birth, per thasoend of  ld-y-ro
Population  1960  197D,. an  197t data.c,-ro
Crude Deahgtefe  thead) - mA--  death, por thnoand of mid-yea-amnartr  (perI th-nadpplte)-Pseu                                                           eocmrs   se
pplto:16,1970, and 1978 data,                                                     cae.oti ac   hn  ih  prne  ralde    mblce  he r                             tcan
Oa erdnine gate - Averge n.flr ef daughtete a   -oa  will her In                       miltet  vhices
her noral reprodutive period if she euperlnce present a.e-speific fcr-                     -adioteccv.ivoe(e.       homn   uoaio)-altpe   frnise     trd
tility ran;uual  five-yea   araeseding In 19 60, 1970, and 1977.                            braoeet   ees   oio per thoneAd of population: elode   sel-
Fseily Ploocin  - Accrtpr.  A--.I (theweande  - Annua sober of ...oeptore                      cII.Idecloei  coociaadi   ec   ha  oieslno   et
of bleth-coetroldeis udccpIc. of naina ..   sal-ly planing program.                         ee Inefc;dt  for- rI ioyar  nay no ho.comparable cince nes
F.nfly Plannin  - l=om  C=rnn  ofmaried woe)--               ecno       fmrried~                . coo triactah dliah fd Ilecin..Z     .r    y-b.-pcb.i,
omnochild-bearing mg  (15-44 yece   who ne it-otrldvcet                              TI ieerr   nttecadnolto)-2rcieefo   radcast to
all marrid nomen  n esma ae itoop.general. public pen thecead populstion: en- da                                              nicen-dTVrciva
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~in coontriem  and in. yr. when  -egieratien of TV cot. Ce Ie a ffc..t
tnden of Pond Predoctien car Coots (1969-71-196) - Iode  of pen co pits  -eoo               Monsoppe  Circulation  (pa ithousad rorulanmo) fS-ibw   cb. a-ctat  ni-cul
prodoctin of all f end coeditioc.  frodocemi    -Iode    cee..d end fund nd-                tieo       gol  genra  intere  ees a"   eInd asaIperiodical pub-
..I-d.c P.- b..i.                                               ~        ~~~~~~~~~~Icau devote1d primartly.to reco rding gsnor1 news   It Ie ce..eidered
te  e clenar  eerbaIn.Osait tc cve  petimar  ced (e.g. m- marcad                 no, hedly'i   tpero ait. psee  foo  tie a.   th.    -.
inoteed of .sugr) which ate edible  n   oti   oree    eg.cfe   n                            lnsAea  Attndnce           A. Cet   e   ertme.noen                     to
tnre enclded).  Aggregate production of each country Is hoend o-nAt- -                                                  C
nettnalonstge  rodcer  rIc  nIgts;196-65,197, cdA10    Idts.                nihto soddcn.h er,lcuiteeeinn.                            odrv-in cinse
Per cais  ueP    focrIs (Cee_et of renuree  ts  - Computed fcoo                              ad mahile unite.
_enrY equivalent of not fond eapplice   vetlbhle in costry  pe aie~                    ABOR PORIE
per dey.  Aveilble suppIes. comprise dumtai  production. InP.rcla                        e      ao   oc   tonne  -Oooial   cleprr                            nldn
enporte. en.hne-esak    ttnplcencoeaia   ed   nd,                                         amd frcee. sod uneployed bnt enolodieg hoceewlve, audeet, etc.
qatitesnedi  food Process.ing, sod losses In dletribott,.  Rsqcire                      Jeitt .r in-rinuoe-trieonrItc ton-ps...hls  1960, 1970 end
-ets were stiated by PAO bead on phyeiologi-I omde tot                  .Ima   cti_       1970 done.
city edhoclth consIdering evirocmata1               fsor, bdy wighte;,, 5C              Fml   oret    F-1rem Inlbor force If p.roennge o  tota  lehor forco.
and sendJ. dibtlceo    f popultia    . d e11wiga 10 peret fo   et   n                   drclue(o n)-Lhrfocinamng  forestry, huntle  and
,honashold level:                                                                          fi9i6-hI,. 197Dftt,  l..sod 1977,190 .date.                               t.
Pr  .. ic. euprr of c.retal  (grac  nor dey) - Protele content of pet ospits              fiabtryg( an. -ectg  of ttulb ahc f-        crcri:9 196. , 1971i- mod197  dta.
net eupply of food pse day.  Mee suPpl  of food Is dafined ne ebo.-   is                ldnu       (eoily  -tLabr  force I.p. to .em   ta,9 onntrut1iob, mefactuti1960
qi t.for all  -ccise established by OSDDS pr-vde for mini-                          and eletrity waesegsanprnaeofoalabroc;190
-quttramoutep   dy-d20V                                   f-iI   d              1970 and 1970 data.
ulspei,of which 10 gram  shold he anIma  protein.  Those etand-                  aciiyrteercoe    mttl  male, sod femal  len  fotceti ce
urde are lower than thoee of 75 grams of total protein sad 23f gramsb off...
World Food   arus; 19~6"145,197 a   197  dan.                                              1960, 1970, and 1975 dat..  Thene are IiO.'   pctcpninrtes reflecting
Petcoota  retin  urey fom   niml sd rlec- Pccon  o  fod d-         ec-eo  crocturn of the populatIon, sod lots tle  red.  A fow osi-
tired fro  ania1  end pulses to tea  per dsy; 1961-65, 197  cd177 datsc   ,     -i-
Child (ae   -)MoaiyttoCn   h9md       nsa   eneprtceo   in                                  -Ocn Dom4.Rn&dntc  Datrin- Rtin  of popularloc coder 15 and 65 and nvr
age gr-np 1-4 penc, to chIldren In thi   gc grou.P; tot nest dev-lcyin  cnnhn-.t.
trios data derived from  life tablen; 1960, 1970 and 1977 dsta.                         ICC   DITIBTO
Pentgeo crirate_I-cm  _hch  -c each and hid) - R-oived by titbet
atbitht;1960,1.t9i70cod 197t data.
Isfant MortalIty Eats (pne thoeseA) - Ancua  dsthe cf in0-t soeeder oeyen-    PNRTYt  TARGET GROfUPi
of st  per  hoece   liv   bith;,p.  tiet.Imted Ab-Tty Poert   Inom   teve  (I---    1alt)-,r96I.1tl
Accs t.a..         atr.gcen   f               -eeles) - total, urban. and rural - N,             bouepvry  noelvli   tha   noelnlbSA115iik
tombet of poople (total, urban, sad rued) with rn_eoeble  nn   to  ate                       _otrtinnally  edquto d1iet 1puseen 1o nec-food raqoitmate Is see
weter supply (.inlde. treted suface enters or onmed but oncotminoted                         of                             p.r.e...
woe fsc cm hat from  prtnted heah.m. eb oine, sd ceelitery wells) c                 feti..       eaIePvrvicm    eal(i   e   eio       ra                           uo 
ecnageo   he i  rspectiv- pep.1stlons.  I. soubenor   pablic                        lordreltiv   p-vrty incos  level  . on-hr Ifaaesperpt
fonai   r Itanpsst located non sate than 200 manors froc ahos   maYb
coeminereda ,bein  wIthin   --onbls aeeof that houn..  On  fudsae                            proahsoao   h   onry    re   ee   edrvdfo   h   oa
reennable acm  wul  imply tha,thnb  h...-nif. ar mebers of the household                  F,level with ndjoctmont fohigbr coat of living Ieuhe t.
.P                         I                                       I-~~~~~~~~~~~ttese    oueio    ec    hnlt   nan  Icm    ee ip. Aort.z.frbgV
dont  aeceead dieprepoctioot  pact of the day in fethingto                           n r ural- 1- Pect cf populetion  (ucba  sod t             h   r    bouepoor.
faiY' setr seds
Acme  otaot  PDisOe. ncnto    enti   -oalurnsd
rgml -  ebre   epe(oal                  e,       rrl    ee          Z    I ncst
dinpoal ma peecsmemga  ef the. Ic top.tive populotlo-    catonst die-                                                      tEnnmic sa  Socia  Date Division
Pos.l map inlue the cel11ntien ad dispoeni, aith or eitheut treatment                                                 tEnoio Aalycie and Penjectien   Deparet
of fh-a  secrts nd omte-teno  byZwter-hom   my.to     or the ass                                                                             OcIther 1960
pit privies end siler ieeeallat Io.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
SIERRA LEONE
ECONIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 r79                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, 1972/73 constant prices)
USS Mln.       %                     1968/69-70/71    1970/71-77/8Ll    1978/79 _1/
GNP at Market Prices         871.4        100.0                       7.4               0.9            1.6
Gross Domestic Investment    135.2         15.5                       1.1              -1.2           11.1
Gross National Saving         22.6          2.5                        -               -6. 8        -45.0
Current Account Balance     -116.6        13.0
Exports of Goods, NFS        209.7        24.1                       -2.0             -2.0           -3.1
Imports of Goods, NFS       -313.8        36.0                       1.5              -0. 6          14.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978/79
2/
Value Added                  Labor Force_                  V. A. Per Worker
USS Mln.      S
Agriculture                 285.5        35.9              .820      67.0                 348.2        53.5
Industry                    174.1        21.9              .195      16.0                 892.8       137.2
Services                    336.0        42.2              .184      15.0                1826.1       280.7
Unallocated                  -                              .024      2.0
Total/Average       79          100.0              i71          i                 6IU-=        100.0
OOVERNMDIT FINANCE
GOeneral Government                           Central GovernTent
(______of  oDP  La-  Qln.) 
197          197        196 -7                  979    1978,79   1974-1975/76
Current Receipts                                                                 172.8       20.7       17.5
Current Expenditure                                                              166.0       19.9       16.2
Current Surplus                                                                   Fu.
Capital Expenditures                                                              41.6       5.0         5.4
External Asaistance (net)                                                         36.2        4.2        4.7
MICYE. CREIST and FRICES                ;1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979
(i3llion La outstanding end periodT)
Money and Quasi Money                   84.6         91.6        111.9      136.2       179.3       214.5
Bank credit to Public Sector 3/         23.0         56.7       107.3       119.7       182.4       252.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector           39.7         41.1        43.7        46.8        64.9        71.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quadi Money as % of GDP (m.p.) 17.7        16.0        18.2        18.3        22.0        23.0
General Price Index (1961 - 100) 4/
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                     14.4         19.9        17.2         8.3        10.9        21.2
Bank credit to Public Sector            52.3        146.5        89.2        11.6        52.4        38.4
Bank credit to Private Sector           40.8          3.5         6.3         7.1        38.6         9.4
NOTEs All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1! Preliminary
/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "TUnallocatede consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ Credit from the Banking System.
4/ Consumer Price Index (Freetown).
not available
not applicable



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
SIERRA LEONE
TRADE PAIMENTS AND CAPITAL FLWS
BULAICE OF PAYMENIS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS(US $ KllliQn)
1973-75      1977-79
1974     1976      1979                                Average   Z h aie.e -~--
(Millions US $)                                               -
230 0    Minerals                 99.1   74.1   105.8       58.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          153.5    120.0    230.0         Mieas991 7-                             105.       58
Exports of Goods, NFS         -217.2   -162.5   -304.2           Diamonds               80.4   60.1    97.7       53.9
Reourceof Gapo(deficit NFS   ')  -Iron Ore                                              14.3   10.7      -         -
Resource Gap (deficit         - 63.7   - 42.5   - 74.2           Bauxite                 4.4    3.3      8.1       4.5
Agr'l. Commod.           24.8   18.5    64.1      35.4
Interest Payments (net)                                          Coffee                  7.8    5.8    32 5       17.9
Workers' Remittances                                             Cocoa                   8.2    6.1    22.8       12.6
Other Factor Payments (net)  - 18.8   - 25.2   - 40.9            Palm kernels 6 Prod.   8.8    6.6       8.8       4.9
Net Transfers                   21.9      10.7     28.6        All other Commodities    9.9    7.4    109 Q         7
Balance on Current Account   - 60. 6   - 57. 0   -865                     Total       133.8  100.0   181.1    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       10.3       8.5      7.6             EXTERNAL DEBT, June 30, 1979
Net MLT Borrowing               26.8      16.4     37.0
Disbursements                38.5      32.3     86.1                                                        US $ MIn
Amortization                -11,7    -15.9    -49.0
Subtotal                     31.1      24.9     44.6               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            277.6-
Capital Grants                   3.5       5.6      6.7               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               -
Other Capital (net)             10.4       4.3      7.6               Total outstanding & Disbursed            277.6
Other items n.e.i                1 .L8    -21 1    -1S- 5
Increase in Reserves (+)       - 7.8    -24.3    -43.1              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19797
Gross Reserves (end year)       49.2      21.8     46.7
Net Reserves   (end year)       36.5    - 4.9    -26.2                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             22,5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed             7275
fIports
of which:  Petroleum        25.3      11.2     67.0  '
Erports
of which:  Petroleum          -         -       -        IBRD/IDA LFNDING,  June 30, 1980 (Million US $)
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed               13.0        27.3
Through  -  1971                In     _  197q                  Undisbursed                            0.8         6.3
US 3   1.00 '.8297 Le          US $ I 00  1.050 Le             Outstanding inl. Undisbursed          13.8        336
Le   1.00 = US $1.2053            Le 1.00 = US $.9518                                                  1          33.
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services. Excludes debt servicing of Arrears
($8.4 million in principal and $2.8 million in interest).
2/ Preliminary.
not available
not applicable
August-22, 1980
(Dato)



- 27 -                        AbNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1981)
Loan or                                                         US$ million
Credit                                                   Amount (leEss cancellations)
Number    Year      Borrower          Purpose            Bank    IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Three Loans and Four Credits Fully Disbursed             13.7    15.8
1138      1975      Sierra Leone      Agriculture II      5.0       -         0.34
573      1975      Sierra Leone      Education II          -     7.3         1.98
734      1977      Sierra Leone      Third Power           -     8.2         0.20
970      1979      Sierra Leone      Technical
Assistance           -     2.5         2.50
Total                                18.7    33.8 2/      5.02
of which has been repaid            5.0     0.2
Total now outstanding                13.7    33,.6
Amount sold             0.5
of which has
been repaid           0.5         ___ 
Total now held by
Bank and IDA                       13.7    33.6        _
Total undisbursed                     0.34    4.68        5.02
1/   Net of Exchange Adjustments.
2/   In addition, an IDA credit for US$12.0 million equivalent for the
Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development Project III (Credit No.
1094-SL) was signed on February 13, 1981, but is not yet effective.



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1980)
(in US$ million)
Fiscal Year      Obligor         Type of Business      Loan    Equity    Total
1980         Sierra Cement    Cement and Con-         2.1        -         2.1
Manufacturing    struction mate-
Company, Ltd      rials
(SERACEM)
Total Undisbursed                       2.1        -         2.1



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 573-SL - Second Education Project: US$7.25 million
Credit of July 29, 1975; Effective Date: Sept. 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project administration continues to be efficient and physical
implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Contracts have been awarded
for all civil works, equipment, and furniture. Training courses for techni-
cal teachers and community development workers are well established and
management training programs for private and public sector staff have recently
started at the new facilities constructed under the project. Curriculum
development work for secondary education has been successfully completed. The
only significant project difficulties have arisen in connection with efforts
to strengthen the local capacity for educational research and planning by
providing assistance to the Institute of Education and the Ministry of Educa-
tion Planning Unit. The principal source of this problem is the lack of
qualified local staff. The project includes fellowships to train local staff
in these areas, but selection of suitable candidates to staff these project
institutions has been delayed by the freeze on civil service recruitment. To
assist the Government to finance the local cost portion of the project, the
Executive Directors approved a US$1.0 million EEC Special Action Credit which
became effective July 2, 1980.
Credit No. 568-SL   Second Agricultural Project:  US$5 million
Loan No. 1138-SL    Credit of July 2, 1975 and US$5 million Loan
of July 2, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Eastern Province portion was completed June 30, 1980 and the
Government is now carrying the full cost of maintaining project activities
in that area. In the Northern Province, delays were originally encountered
due-to management constraints, but full momentum was later attained and
completion is expected in June 1981. Because of the initial delays and
rising costs, supplemental funds were needed for agricultural inputs. In
addition, the original funds for feeder roads proved inadequate, in part
because roads were built to a higher standard than had been anticipated at
appraisal. To cover both shortfalls, the executive Directors approved a
US$2 million EEC Special Action Credit which became effective July 2,
1980. A follow-up Eastern Area Project (Cr. 1094-SL) was approved by the
Board on January 13, 1981.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced eva]Luation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
Credit No. 734-SL   Third Power Project:  US$8.2 million
Credit of September 29, 1977;
Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The extension of the King Tom power plant (financed by IDA)
has already been completed and is in operation. Progress is being made in
installation of the 33 kV grid and the new generating units (both financed
by BADEA) for the provincial centers. The financial management consultants
have completed their studies and have submitted their recommendations to
SLEC's management. The feasibility study of the Bumbuna hydroelectric
scheme has been completed. Although some improvement has been achieved in
the technical operation of the corporation, there is no noticeable improve-
ment in its weak financial and management condition. SLEC-s financial
problems stem to a large extent from the failure of the Government to settle
its accounts with SLEC and the need for a tariff increase which the Govern-
ment has not yet approved.
Credit No. 970-SL   Technical Assistance Project:  US$2.5 million
Credit of February 8, 1980;
Effective Date: June 30, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project aims at strengthening the Government s capability in
development planning, the preparation of development projects, the training
of local staff, and the monitoring and evaluation of public investment
programs. It includes: (a) 10 man-years of advisers; (b) 75 man-months of
consultants; (c) training in development planning and project preparation;
and (d) project preparation and prefeasibility studies. Initial project
implementation has been slow due to delay in reaching decisions on the selec-
tion of suitable candidates for the various positions.
Credit No. 1094-SL Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development Project
III: US$12.0 million Credit of February 13, 1981;
Not yet effective: Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project aims at consolidating and expanding the assistance
to small scale farmers in the Eastern Region which was started under the
previous two Bank Group integrated agricultural projects; to further in-
crease food and export crop production by providing agricultural inputs,
credit, extension services, feeder roads and village wells and technical
assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture to support and plan future agri-
cultural development projects. The credit was signed on February 13, 1981
and is not yet effective.



- 31 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  4 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:  FAO Cooperative Program and
Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAF)
(c) Date of first Bank mission
to consider the project:          January 1979
(d)  Date of appraisal mission:        June 1980
(e) Date of completion of
negotiations:                     February 12, 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  90 days after cred:lt signing
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) On the basis of the approved budget, Government to (i) make
appropriate allocations for this and the previous project in
the MAF budget and release the necessary funds to MAF quarterly
in advance, and (ii) make timely allocations of the necessary
foreign exchange for the import of recurrent farm inputs and
other goods required under this and the previous project
(para. 57);
(b) IDA to prefinance local costs by means of advance disburse-
ment into special account (para. 56);
(c) Before June 30, 1984, Government to submit proposaLls to IDA
for integrating the PMU and other project units operating in
the Northern Province under MAF (para. 48);
(d) Government to ensure that sufficient rice seed is available
(para. 49);
(e) Interest rates to be increased and thereafter reviLewed annually
with IDA (para. 50);



- 32 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(f) Farmer loan repayments to be deposited in special account
(para. 50);
(g) Qualified trainer in agricultural management and development
to be appointed to Institute of Public Administration (para.
52);
(h) Consultants to be engaged to assist in carrying out a base-
line survey (para. 53);
(i) IDA to approve contract with CARE for road construction
(para. 54);
(j) All-weather roads to be maintained by CARE for two years,
with financing from the Government, after which the respon-
sibility for maintenance would be turned over to MOW (para.
54); and
(k) Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to effectiveness of
ADF and IFAD loans (condition of effectiveness, para. 56).



CO                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~uJ
0  to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                         -J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~~~~~~~  2to ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~c
touii                                        ;>~
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



