Document of
The World Bank                   pLE COPy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3166-SL
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 27, 1981
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division 4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00   =  Le 1.05
Le 1.00   =  US$0.95
US$1.00   =  SDR 0.80
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights
and measures in this report are metric.
1 metric ton     =    0.98 long ton = 37 bushels
1 hectare (ha)   =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km) =    0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ACRE     Adaptive Crop Research and Extension
ADF      Agricultural Development Fund
CARE     Cooperative American Relief Everywhere
FSC      Farm Service Center
GOSL     Government of Sierra Leone
IADP     Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IDA      International Development Association
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPAM     Institute of Public Administration and Management
MAF      Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MEC      Monitoring and Evaluation Cell
MOW      Ministry of Works
NAPCO    National Produce Company
NUC      Njala University College
PEC      Project Executive Committee
PCC      Project Coordinating Committee
PEMSU    Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Services Unit
RLTDC    Rokel Leaf Tobacco Development Company
RRRS     Rokupr Rice Research Station
SLPMB    Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ................   v.#  .............  1
Background    .......................1...................... 
The Agricultural Sector ................... ..............    1
Agricultural Institutions and Services ..............          3
II.    THE PROJECT AREA ....................,                         5
The Main Characteristics ...............................      5
The First Phase Project .................................      7
III.   THE PROJECT ............................................       9
Background      ...................................            9
Summary Description ...................                        9
Detailed Features           ..10
Cost Estimates          ............... $ .......   13
Proposed Financing    ..14
Procurement                        .. .16
Disbursements    ..17
Accounts and Audit .....................................   18
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................                18
Organization and Management    .           .18
Project Relationship with Provincial Agricultural Office    20
Field Services          ................  20
Commercial Services    ..21
Staffing and Training    ..23
Project Monitoring and Evaluation           .      .         25
V.     TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS        .     .       25
Agricultural Practices.                                      25
Crop Farming   ..26
Livestock           .........................   29
The Environment    ..30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Mr. Pease and Miss Mackrandilal (IDA) and Chapple, Raswant, Surindar Singh
and Wirth (Consultants) which visited Sierra Leone from June 1 to 20, 1980.
Tsicment has arestricted distribution and may be used byrecipients only in the performance of
their of    ties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
- - TŽsdo~cunt hs arsrce  itiuinan  a eue yrcpetsol ntepromneo



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VI.    DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......   30
Demand .............    ....................................    30
Marketing ..........     ....................................    31
Prices ............    .....................................    31
Financial Analysis .....................................   32
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .34
Overall Benefits .34
Economic Rate of Return .35
Risks and Sensitivity .35
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED .36
Tables in Text
Table 1   Summary of Project Cost
Table 2   Proposed Financing Plan
Table 3   Crop Yields
Table 4   Adoption Rate
Table 5  Farmgate Prices
Table 6   Farm Incomes
Annexes
Annex 1   Summary of Project Costs
Annex 2   Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit
Annex 3   Annual Crop Development Program
Annex 4   Total and Incremental Crop Production
Annex 5  Livestock Production
Annex 6   Crop Budgets per hectare
Annex 7   Farm Models
Annex 8   Government Cash Flow Projection
Annex 9   Table 1, Economic Costs, Benefits, and Rate of Return
Annex 9   Table 2, Sensitivity Analysis
Annex 10  Selected Documents and Working Papers in the
Project File
Charts
IBRD 22063 Organization of Mlinistry of Agriculture and Forestry
IBRD 21924 Project Organization
Maps
IBRD 15255    Project Area
IBRD 14746R   National Agricultural Development and Communication



SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
1.01      The Republic of Sierra Leone has an area of 71,740 km2 (28,000
sq. miles), with a population of about 3.3 million (1980) growing at an annual
rate of 2.5%. Population density varies considerably from 29/kmL in the
North to about 585/km2 in the Western area. About 10% of the population
lives in Greater Freetown. About 80% of the population live in rural areas
and derives its livelihood from agriculture and related activities.
1.02      The 1978/79 GDP was estimated at Le 932 million (US$888 million at
current prices). Average per capita income was about Le 262 (US$250) and
unevenly distributed across sectors and regions. Rural incomes are far below
the national average, and within agriculture the highest incomes are in the
East and the lowest in the North. GNP growth, averaging 4.0% between 1969 and
1973, has slowed down since 1974, and the per capita real income has been
declining.
1.03      The economy is characterized by two main and largely contrasting
sectors. The modern mining sector has become less dynamic since 1974, owing
to the cessation of iron ore mining and a decrease in the volume of production
from diamond mining. While the sector continues to contribute about 10% of
GDP and 60% of export earnings (1978/79), it cannot be expected to provide
much additional employment. The agricultural sector remains largely under-
developed. Its contribution to export earnings, of about 35%, comes mainly
from coffee and cocoa.
1.04      The country has experienced an increasing trade deficit, increasing
from Le 21.0 million (US$20.0 million) in 1973 to Le 120 million (US$114.0
million) in 1980. Food imports comprise about 18% (1976/77) of the total
import bill. Given the projected lower prices for coffee and cocoa exports
and the rising import demand from an expanding population, the unfavorable
balance of trade can be expected to increase further.
The Agricultural Sector
1.05      The agricultural sector, with a good resource base, has a major role
to play in improving the country's economic performance. Conditions are
suitable for a variety of high potential agricultural production systems which
can improve the income levels of the rural poor as well as expand production
of export crops and of food crops for import substitution. The Southern
and Eastern parts of the country have climatic conditions suitable for tree
crop production and the support of a rural cash economy. Conditions are less
favorable towards the North, as the dry season becomes longer and the cropping
system becomes shifting cultivation for subsistence.



1.06      About 645,000 ha or 13% of the arable land is cultivated annually,
which implies an insufficient fallow period of about six to seven years. Rice
is the staple food, each year taking up over 70% of the cultivated area and
grown by over 80% of the farmers. Growth of rice production, currently
averaging 2% annually, attained 8% for about two years in the mid-seventies,
because of increased swamp rice production and as a response to a 56% increase
in producer prices. Domestic production in 1978/79 was about 308,000 tons
rice equivalent. Over the past 20 years imports of rice averaged about 30,000
tons annually, but in 1979 reached 68,000 tons--a reflection more on erratic
purchasing than on consumption pattern or production decrease. The impact of
the Integrated Agricultural Development Projects in reducing rice imports has
not been much felt because farm consumption demand is still not fully met, and
probably less than half of production increases have reached the market.
The main export crops, coffee, cocoa and palm kernels, are mostly produced in
the East and South. In 1979/80 exports included 9,500 tons of cocoa (worth
US$29.6 million) and 10,000 tons coffee (worth US$36.2 million). Fruit trees,
mostly citrus, are grown throughout the country, but the enterprise has
received little development support, though a fruit processing factory has
recently been established in the North   Edible oils are produced locally from
oil palm, mostly wild and grown throughout the country, and from groundnuts,
mostly grown in the North. About 40,000 tons palm oil is currently produced
for domestic consumption. About 3,000 tons groundnuts were exported annually
in the 1950's, but with increasing preference for rice production and its
increased local consumption as food, exports have ceased. The Sierra Leone
Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB) is constructing a 2 ton/hour oil refinery for
groundnuts and soya. Currently, about US$3.0 million worth of animal and
vegetable oils are imported annually.
1.07      The contribution of the livestock sector is small, being about 5% of
agricultural production or about 1.5% of total GDP. There are about 330,000
cattle and 378,000 sheep and goats, mostly owned by pastoralists in the North.
Small stock production is mostly concentrated around the urban areas, prin-
cipally Freetown.
1.08      The National Development Strategy.  The National Development Plan
1974/75 - 78/79 assigned high priority to agriculture and emphasized its
development as essential for achieving long-term economic growth, balanced
regional growth, and equitable income distribution. The plan called for an
overall growth of the agricultural sector of 5.4% per year, self-sufficiency
in rice, improved nutrition and increased production of major export crops.
These goals were to be achieved through improvements in agricultural services,
and the implementation of production-oriented prices. The main vehicle was to
be integrated agricultural development projects (IADPs) covering the country s
main agricultural areas. By 1981, some 21,000 km2 or about 30% of the
country will have been covered by IADPs: Eastern IADP and Northern IADP
(financed by the Bank and IDA), Magbosi IADP (financed by IFAD and appraised
and administered by the Bank), and Koinadugu IADP (financed by the EEC).
Another three are scheduled to begin in 1981: Kambia/Port Loko, Moyamaba, and
Bo/Pujejun as well as the proposed extensions of the Eastern and Northern
projects (see map IBRD 14746R).



- 3 -
1.09      The Government is now preparing a second plan.  Emphasis is expected
to continue to be placed on IADP-s and the strengthening of central services.
Expansion of the cultivated area, irrigation and soil conservation are recog-
nized objectives, as is the raising of incomes of the rural poor. These
objectives are supported by the Bank. The Ministry of Development and Economic
Planning is receiving assistance from the UNDP in preparing the second plan as
a whole. To supplement this effort, the IDA US$2.5 million Technical Assist-
ance Project, approved in December 1979 (Cr. 970-SL), provides assistance to
ministries in priority development fields. Under this project, the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry is expected to employ two long-term planning
advisers and to obtain financing for special consultant services and studies.
1.10      Bank Group Operations.  Bank group operations in the agricultural
sector to date, including two IAD projects, and the administration of an IFAD
financed project, have been in support of the Government's objectives of
stimulating agricultural development through the provision of improved admini-
strative and extension services, farm inputs and feeder roads. The first
project, the Integrated Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 323-SL) approved
in June 1972 under an IDA credit of US$4.3 million, was the first of its kind
in Sierra Leone. The Project Completion Report for Cr. 323-SL (May 1978)
noted that the project was a success in meeting its targets of establishing a
project management unit, providing credit and extension services and building
a modern palm oil mill. Crop development achievements were 2,800 ha of swamp
rice, 310 ha of cocoa and 770 ha of oil palm plantings. About 3,500 of the
70,000 farming families in the area were direct beneficiaries under the
project. IADP II was approved in April 1975 under joint Bank Loan (1138) and
IDA Credit (568) for a two year extension of the Eastern project and a four
year Northern Area project. The implementation of both project components was
delayed (para 2.08). However, crop development of 2,220 ha of swamp rice, 846
ha of cocoa and 929 ha of oil palm in the East was in excess of appraisal
targets. A draft Project Completion Report for the Eastern Area component of
Cr 568/Ln 1138-SL has been prepared and this report takes its conclusions into
consideration. Achievements in the North (para 2.08) should also equal or
surpass appraisal estimates by its closing date in June 1981. A third-phase
Eastern IADP, to increase coverage of upland and swamp rice and coffee and
cocoa farming, has been approved by the Executive Directors. The proposed
NIADP II would be IDA's fourth project for agricultural development. A fifth
one - an agricultural services project, is being prepared by Government to
ensure smooth integration of these projects within the organizational struc-
ture of the Ministry of Agriculture, help rationalize agricultural policies
and introduce an integrated institutional form of smallholder credit.
Agricultural Institutions and Services
1.11      The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) comprises two main
divisions: the Agriculture Division, which would be the primary institution
concerned with the proposed project headed by a Chief Agriculturalist, and
the Forestry Division, headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests (Chart IBRD
22063). There are five agricultural regions, in each of which MAF's activi-
ties are headed by a Principal Agricultural Officer (PAO). In general, MAF's
extension activities are ineffective because of low salaries, poor mobility,



- 4 -
shortages of funds and low morale. The externally financed IADPs do not
suffer from these problems, primarily because of adequate resources and clear
objectives.  Separate services were created in order to implement Government's
policy of developing agriculture through a series of IADPs. In the Northern
Region, two IADPs (Koinadugu and Northern First Phase) function alongside the
Regional M1AF structure which operates the tractor ploughing scheme, tractor
repair workshop, and other regional facilities. The IADPs carry out a
specific development role over a limited time period. This has worked
satisfactorily and would continue for the time being. However, as MAF has
been charged with achieving a closer integration of regional agricultural
activities, the reorganization and strengthening of MAF as a whole would be
addressed in the Agricultural Services Project that is being processed
(para 1.10).
1.12      The MIinistry of Natural Resources was split from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources in 1978. Its principal operation--veterinary
services--is limited by finance, manpower and organizational resources to
operating 5 regional clinics, the Teko Research Station in the North and 25
livestock inspection posts which record stock movements. A National Livestock
Development Study was completed in 1978 but this has not yet resulted in
agreement on a national livestock development strategy.
1.13      Marketing.  The major agricultural marketing institution is the
Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB), part of the Ministry of Trade
and Industries. The SLPMB markets the country's main export crops and has also
temporarily taken over the functions of the Rice Corporation, which was
recently dissolved by Government because of inefficiency. Producer prices for
export crops are fixed by the SLPMB in consultation with the Government. The
Government levies export duties on the basis of a fixed percentage of f.o.b.
prices. These taxes are high, 35-40% on coffee and 35% on cocoa; they had
been lowered in early 1979, but were subsequently raised in response to
budgetary problems. An Agricultural Development Fund administered by the
SLPMB, to be utilized for the promotion of large scale, estate or other
farming operations, has been established with a total deposit of Le 10 million
by withholding 8.5% of f.o.b. prices. SLPMB has also recently established a
subsidiary company--the National Produce Company (NAPCO), having primary
responsibility for the marketing of groundnuts. NAPCO is currently engaged in
the production of groundnut seed for which it was not designed but which it has
undertaken in the absence of any other body. NAPCO will play a valuable role
in the improved marketing of groundnuts. Most groundnut marketing is cur-
rently carried out through local markets by traders. The marketing of cattle,
sheep and goats is handled solely by the private sector (see para 6.04).
1.14      Rural Credit.  Two national credit institutions are concerned with
development financing: the National Cooperative Development Bank (NCDB),
which has provided credit mainly to marketing cooperatives; and the National
Development Bank (NDB), which has increased its lending to agriculture, but
mainly to large-scale farmers. The Bank of Sierra Leone introduced a credit
guarantee scheme which aimed principally at small scale enterprises but also
encouraged lending to farmers by the commercial banks, but with little effect
so far. The only institution in the country that is providing credit for
agricultural production to a significant number of small farmers is the



- 5 -
Farmer-s Finance Company (FFC), created under the IDA-financed IADP II
(Cr 568-Ln 1138 SL). Efforts are being made to provide credit along similar
lines in the other IADPs. A study on cooperative rural credit is currently
being carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone (Central Bank) and an American
Cooperative Group (ACDI).   A more comprehensive study is about to be carried
out under the recently approved IDA Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 970-SL),
proposals from which are likely to be incorporated in the Agricultural
Services Project (para 1.10).
1.15      Research.  Research is carried out at the Rokupr Rice Research
Station (RRRS) and the Njala University College (NUC). There has been in-
sufficient coordination between these units and MAF in terms of national
objectives, though individual programs may have been well conceived. RRRS is
financially supported by UNDP and the West Africa Rice Development Association
(WARDA). A USAID-financed Adaptive Crop Research and Extension (ACRE) project
is scheduled to become operational at NUC in 1981 and will concentrate on food
crop research using on-farm trials (para 4.09).
1.16      Agricultural Training.  The Institute of Public Administration
(IPAM) was created under the Second Education Project (Cr. 573-SL) within
the University of Sierra Leone; it became operational in October 1980. Its
function is to train managers at all levels in both the public and private
sectors. For future extension staff, a new procedure is being implemented.
This new approach will provide an adequate training background to meet project
needs. After six months broad-based training at one of two existing training
centers, Village Extension Workers (VEWs) gain a year-s field experience
before being guaranteed a position in the extension service. Training of
Agricultural Instructors (AIs) consists of a three year course at Njala
University College (NUC) and is open to selected VEWs. NUC also offers a four
year degree course in agriculture, with an annual output of 10 to 15 graduates.
1.17      Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation.  A Project Evaluation
and Services Unit (PESU) was established under IADP II to assist with project
implementation generally but specifically of the two IDA-financed IADPs in the
Eastern and Northern Regions. PESU provided effective budgeting, accounting,
auditing and related services, but did not accomplish its monitoring and
evaluation functions as staff was diverted to the preparation of projects.
In 1979, to streamline and strengthen centralized planning and monitoring,
Government merged PESU and MAF's Planning Unit into a single Planning, Evalua-
tion, and Monitoring Services Unit (PEMSU). PEMSU has received support under
the Magbosi IADP (Ln 21 SL; TA Grant 10-SL) and will also be assisted under
the Eastern IADP III (Cr 1094-SL), and the IDA Technical Assistance Project
(Cr 970-SL).
II. THE PROJECT AREA
The Main Characteristics
2.01      The project area (map IBRD 15255), which in IADP II encompassed 10
chiefdoms of the Tonkolili and Bombali Districts (4,900 km2), would be
expanded by a further 12 chiefdoms and 8,500 km2 in the Northern Province.



- 6 -
The total project area is thus 13,400 km2, or about 55% of Northern Prov-
ince; of the remaining area about 26% is occupied by the Koinadugu IADP
and 19% is excluded from IADP areas. Topography varies from fairly flat to
hilly. Most areas comprise gently undulating plains with wide valley swamps;
in some of the northern areas, variations in elevation are great and reliefs
of up to 2,000 meters are found. Two major rivers, the Mabole and the Rokel,
flow through the area in the southwestern direction. Agriculturally, the main
soils are distinguished as upland, inland swamps, river terrains and bolilands
(low fertility, acid, clay soils). Mean annual rainfall is about 3,000 mm.
About 90% of precipitation falls from May to November.
2.02      Access from Freetown is provided by a 185 km well paved road.  From
Makeni another paved road runs south-east to Magburaka and Masingbi and its
total length in the project area is 95 km. Within the project area, there is
a network of unclassified and generally unmaintained tracks and minor roads.
2.03      Population and Agriculture.  The population of the 10 chiefdoms in
the Phase I area is estimated at 235,000 (48/km2). In the remaining 12
chiefdoms, coming under NIADP II, the population is about 171,000 (17/km2).
There are roughly 34,000 farming households or farm families averaging 9.7
persons per hodsehold.  About 45% of t'.-e population is in the under-14 age
bracket.
2.04      Land Tenure, Land Use and Farming Systems.  Land belongs to tribal
communities or chiefdoms, with the Paramount Chief or subchiefs acting as
trustees. The right to cultivate land usually is vested in certain family
groups under the control of a family head and remains with that family unless
land is abandoned for an identifiable period (see Working Paper Cl).
2.05      According to the latest official statistics (1970/71) the total
area cultivated annually is about 67,500 ha in the two districts of Tonkolili
and Bombali. Upland cultivation accounts for the major part of this area
(about 90%), the main crops are rice (45,000 ha), groundnuts (6,500 ha),
and cassava, sweet potatoes, millet, sorghum, vegetables etc. (10,000 ha).
About 6,000 ha of swamp are under cultivation devoted mainly to rice. The
uplands are farmed under a system of field rotation; every year an area is
taken out of fallow (after some 6 - 7 years), cleared and planted with rice
and a mixture of the other crops mentioned above. There is severe danger to
upland soils on account of steadily reducing fallow cycles. Swamps are
cultivated continuously with one rice crop per year except in cases where
moisture retention permits a second crop of groundnuts, cassava and sweet
potatoes (for leaves). Production is primarily for subsistence, though some
surplus (mainly rice, groundnuts and citrus) is sold for cash. Farm sizes
vary between 2 and 3 ha of cultivated area on the uplands, and average 1 ha in
the swamps. Livestock (cattle, sheep and goats) is not integrated into the
farming systems to a great extent. Of the 85,000 cattle, mostly N'dama, in
the NIADP II area, almost 90% are owned by pastoral Fulah. About 5-6,000 are
owned by crop farmers (mostly Temne) who are taking a greater interest in
livestock management. Sheep and goats (totalling 77,000), whose meat is
mostly eaten for festive and religious occasions, are also important. Poultry
and pigs are better produced closer to the market outlet in Freetown. The
project would thus concentrate on cattle, sheep and goats (para 5.09).



- 7 -
2.06      Roads and CARE.  Including the main access road (para 2.02) there
are some 185 km of paved roads. The trunk roads are mostly poorly maintained
laterite surfaces that are frequently impassable in the rains. Most penetra-
tion roads are in poor condition. By contrast, penetration roads under the
responsibility of CARE (Cooperative Americdn Relief Everywhere) are well-
maintained, all-weather laterite and have replaced the trunk routes in some
areas, contrary to their original function. The capacity of the Ministry of
Works (MOW) to build and maintain roads had been insufficient to meet needs,
so CARE carried out these functions for the Government according to an agreed
program financed by donors and Government. CARE is a non-profit Agency funded
internationally, mainly from North America and Europe. 480 km roads were
proposed for construction under the Northern component of the IADP II (Cr.
568-Ln 1138-SL). However, only some 123 km have been constructed, though
another 92 km are expected to be completed under the EEC Special Action Credit
by project closing date, June 30, 1981 (para 2.09-2.10).
The Integrated Agricultural Development Project II (First Phase)
2.07      This project (Cr. 568/Ln. 1138-SL) was the first major agricultural
development in the North, and in view of the historical imbalance of develop-
ment between the more favored Eastern Region and the North, it represented an
important geographical spread of national development. The project became
effective in January 1976, and the closing date has been extended by six
months to June 30, 1981. Short and medium term credit were to be provided for
labor, pesticides, fertilizer and seed to increase the production of 2,430 ha
of inland swamp rice, 10,120 ha of upland rice, and 4,050 ha of groundnuts. In
addition, the project was to: (a) develop a seed multiplication fdrm; (b)
investigate the potential for livestock development, including the establish-
ment of three privately owned cattle ranches; (c) investigate methods of
increasing fuel wood production for tobacco farmers; (d) construct 32 km of
roads and up-grade 450 km crop extraction roads; (e) construct 200 village
wells; (f) establish five market centers; and (g) construct staff houses,
offices and a training center.
2.08      The responsiveness of farmers to the project has been good and
yields achieved generally up to expectations. Despite a delay of about one
year due to management problems (para 2.10), by June 1980 many of the project
objectives had been achieved or were being achieved. 2,930 ha of swamp rice
were grown (121% of appraisal estimates); 6,560 ha upland rice (73%) and 1,640
ha groundnuts (39%).  171 wells were constructed (86%).  A seed multiplication
farm and 5 market centers (100%) were established. The building program was
completed with the exception of some of the staff houses, which were not com-
pleted because of higher than expected expenditure on office building con-
struction and house rentals. The biggest shortfall has been that only 123
km of road were constructed (para 2.06). The livestock component has been
reduced to one government run ranch, support to one private rancher, and
investigations extended to pig and poultry production. The results of the
first phase project provide indication of likely responsiveness to Phase II
proposals. Thus, in the Phase II area swamps are generally more fertile and



- 8 -
groundnut yields better than in the Phase I area. Since the swamp develop-
ment targets were easily attained under the four year Phase I program, the
target for Phase II (4,000 ha) should be readily achieved in the 5 year
program proposed. The limiting factor to upland production under Phase I has
principally been shortage of seed and a delayed start. Phase II will be able
to profit by the initiative created under Phase I.
2.09      Due to the delayed start, the need to extend the road network and
to complete the crop program, a Special Action Credit (Cr 53-SL) for US$2
million has been provided by the European Economic Community (EEC) to extend
the project period in order to meet the major project objectives. It is being
used for vehicles, heavy plant and equipment (US$214,000); small equipment and
spare parts (US$50,000); fertilizer (US$348,000), other inputs (US$55,000) and
works for road construction (US$333,000). It was agreed to use more suitable
standards in the construction and upgrading of roads.
2.10      Project Problems and Lessons of Experience.  Early management
problems were not resolved until the second year of the project. Government
recognizes the need for a high level of management competence, and there is
need for improvement in middle and senior level management capability if
there is to be adequate development continuity following the departure of
internationally recruited technical staff. CARE, the executing agency for
road construction, has generally performed satisfactorily but all roads
constructed under the project have been to a Class IV standard, costing
Le 32,000/ mile. This standard was chosen by the Ministry of Works (MOW) on
the basis that, following two years maintenance by CARE, future maintenance
would be a MOW responsibility. For this, CARE will hand over to MOW blocks of
roads together with adequate maintenance machinery.
2.11      Cost of credit operations has been high (Le 0.33 per Le 1 loaned)
and recovery poor (75% of loans disbursed). A number of factors are likely to
have contributed to this situation: excessive involvement with individual
borrowers as against group responsibility resulting in an over-dependence on
the project by farmers and an inadequacy of individual participation; poor
quality of credit staff; inadequate linkage to existing and traditional
administrative system; pressures to lend brought about by an excessive
preoccupation with targets; inadequacy of loan package resulting in farmers
using high cost local finance to supplement credit provided by the project;
inadequacy of the technical package, particularly in regard to water control
structures and fertilizer application rates; and slow and inconclusive legal
action against credit staff suspected of misappropriating funds. The provi-
sion of quality seed was inadequate in early project years, particularly
for groundnuts. Faults lay in basic planning and on the over-dependence on
project operated seed production. Batkanu Training Center has provided 3-5
day courses for farmers which have not been cost effective and could be
improved upon through mobile training vans. Finally, the project-s agricul-
tural package has operated without the benefit of an appropriately intensified
applied research facility. Solutions to the problems identified under the
Phase I project, and noted above, are detailed in para 4.12.



III. THE PROJECT
Project Background
3.01      The proposed project, a follow-up to the Integrated Agricultural
Development Project II (Cr 568/Ln 1138-SL), was identified in January 1979
during supervision. At that time, it had become clear that the project
activities in Northern Province were succeeding and that there were oppor-
tunities for further development. The project was prepared by FAO/CP in
conjunction with GOSL between October 1979 and February 1980; it was presented
to the World Bank Group for financing in March 1980. Appraisal took place in
June 1980. The ongoing project is progressing satisfactorily and will provide
a solid base on which the Phase II project can be developed. Project staff
were involved in the preparation report for NIADP II.
Summary Description
3.02      The project would enable Government to continue the agricultural
development of the Northern Region over the next five years, by capitalizing
on the initiative created during the ongoing project. The primary aim would
be to increase food production and farm incomes. In addition to the expansion
of upland and swampland rice, groundnuts and maize, all successfully promoted
in Phase I, the project would promote fruit trees as a long-term cash crop and
soil conservation measures. The project would also promote improved livestock
production, particularly by cultivators as an integral part of the farming
system. About 13,500 farmers, or 39% of the project area farmers, would be
direct beneficiaries of the development program. An additional 3,400 families
(10% of the area's population) would benefit from the project through the
extension service advice and the general improvement in welfare from better
roads and drinking water supplies. The project would strengthen its existing
commercial and credit services section until a viable independent credit and
supply institution could be established. The project would provide speci-
fically for:
(i) reinforcing the existing extension and other farmer support
services, with managerial, technical and support staff complemented
by training, together with vehicles, equipment and housing;
(ii)  expanding and strengthening the existing system of credit and
input supply;
(iii) providing medium and short-term credit to finance inputs
for the development and cultivation of 4,000 ha of inland
valley swamps and 20,000 ha of uplands, principally involving
rice (11,000 ha), groundnuts (5,000 ha) and cassava (1,000 ha);
(iv)  planting 750 ha of fruit trees and encouraging the construction
of bunds and other measures to counter erosion on the uplands;
(v) introducing support services and extension training for
livestock, and encouraging improved animal production
practices;



- 10 -
(vi)  providing engineering services for the supervision of the roads
program, financed under the project, and the construction of
400 village wells and five staff houses;
(vii)  financing consultancy and technical assistance for supporting
studies and forestry research and strengthening staff training;
and
(viii) establishing a small monitoring and evaluation cell.
Detailed Features
3.03      Administration, Extension and Other Farmer Support Services.
Financing would be provided for staff totalling 218 persons, incremental to
the 95 persons required to maintain the services of the first phase project.
The necessary vehicles, equipment, buildings and operational costs would also
be financed. The Training and Visit system, already in use, would be streng-
thened through improved training and closer coordination with research and
trials. Extension training would be continued at the Batkanu Training Center,
established under the first phase; farmers training would be shifted in focus
to mobile training units and demonstration plots to be financed under the
project. An agronomy unit would be created to be responsible for the multi-
plication and processing of groundnut seed, the production of fruit seedlings,
applied research, and soil conservation measures. To correct identified
weaknesses in credit and supply services, the Commercial Services Section
(CSS) would be restructured. An internationally recruited credit specialist,
funded under the Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development Project, would
devote about half his time to NIADP II. The CSS would be expanded and streng-
thened with the recruitment of 21 additional staff, the construction of six
farm service centers and four sub-centers, and provision of additional vehi-
cles and equipment. The accountancy service of the project including the
commercial services component would be strengthened through the employment of
an internationally recruited senior accountant.
3.04      Farm and Crop Development.  The project would provide financing for
farm inputs to be distributed by the Commercial Services. Over five years,
these inputs would include 7,400 tons of fertilizer, 1,500 tons of seed,
137,000 seedlings, 1,455,000 mandays of hired labor, and hand tools. These
inputs would be utilized in the development of:
a)   Inland Valley Swamps:  the project would bring into production
2,000 ha of undeveloped swampland and would improve the water
control and crop husbandry of a further 2,000 ha of partially
developed swampland. About 1,000 ha of this swampland would be
in the Phase I area. Standards of development and production would
be higher than in Phase I, primarily through the increased use of
fertilizer (para 5.05) and through the use of permanent support
to earth works where appropriate. This component would be made
possible by increased availability of development and seasonal
credit (para 5.02). The entire area would be devoted to rice
production; and where water supply permits (about 40%), a second
crop of groundnuts (740 ha), maize (160 ha), sweet potatoes and
cassava (440 ha), and mixed crops (160 ha) would be grown.



- 11 -
b)   Upland Crops:  the project would introduce improved cultivation
packages and soil conservation measures aimed at improving yields
on 11,000 ha of rice, 4,300 ha of groundnuts, 415 ha of maize and
4,250 ha of mixed crops, 840 ha of cassava and 750 ha of fruit trees.
3.05      Livestock Development.  Animal production extension services are
nonexistent and veterinary services lack supplies and equipment and do little
more than monitor livestock movements. Under the project, initiatives would
be taken to create the start of a livestock extension service and to respond
to the interest in cattle keeping by the Temne and to awaken the Fulah to the
opportunities that exist for improved cattle keeping. Proposals conform to
recommendations of the National Livestock Development Study (NLDS), completed
in 1978. This will be done by:
-    strengthening the existing livestock section, with an internationally
recruited Livestock Training Officer and the employment of 18 field
extension staff;
-    establishing a livestock training center at Teko;
-    rehabilitating six field stations, previously utilized by the
Veterinary Department for stock movement control, to be converted to
centers from which extension staff will operate to reach livestock
owners, providing basic inputs (minerals, anthelmintics and basic
medicines) for cash sale and demonstrating basic techniques of
improved management to owners of cattle, sheep and goats;
-    assisting associations of livestock-owning crop farmers to establish
Village Cattle Development Units (VCDUs) for the better control and
management of cattle owned by community members;
-    completing the development of Mara Ranch as a demonstration,
training and research operation to benefit extension personnel and
farmers; and
-    demonstrating the use of draft oxen and encouraging farmers to use
this improved technology.
The project would provide financing for the staff, vehicles, equipment and
operational costs necessary to carry out program improvements. Project
services would reach about 500 livestock herdsmen and farmers. The project
will establish a livestock training center at Teko under the Livestock Train-
ing Officer (LTO) with an initial capacity of 10 trainees per course (see
Working Paper C4). Courses will emphasize aspects of practical improved
livestock management and trainees will learn techniques appropriate for direct
extension to livestock owners. Only limited emphasis will be placed on
disease diagnosis and control as animal health is handled by specialists from
MNR's veterinary department. Instruction would particularly apply to the
construction of fencing and buildings using local materials, watering cattle
from bucket-operated wells, and basic stock handling and health practices such
as castrating, dosing, foot treatments and the application of medicines.



- 12 -
3.06      Engineering Services, Roads, Wells, and Buildings (Working Paper C3).
The project would strengthen the Engineering Section with an internationally
recruited Chief Engineer, who would supervise the roads program and coordinate
the wells and buildings program. The roads program, to be undertaken by MOW
under a negotiated contract with CARE as the executing agency of the Govern-
ment, would consist of the construction of 80 km of all-weather Class IVa
penetration roads and the rehabilitation of approximately 300 km of unclas-
sified chiefdom tracks. This would provide adequate accessibility to permit
the distribution of inputs, the provision of extension services, and the
marketing of produce for all development areas covered by the project. The
80 km penetration roads, consisting of two sections--Batkanu to Makoth and
Bumbura to Bendugu--would be a main transportation route for project activi-
ties. The widespread network of unclassified chiefdom tracks would provide
reasonable accessibility to all project development areas. They would be
rehabilitated and maintained on a spot work basis, culverts would be repaired
or replaced and regravelling would occur only in soft sections. Penetration
roads would cost Le 18,750/km; rehabilitation of the chiefdom tracks including
repairs of bridges and culverts would cost Le 4,100/km, while maintenance of
these tracks would cost about Le 46,750 per annum in total. In the case
of penetration roads, CARE would hand these over to MOW after a two-year
maintenance period under CARE execution, financed by GOSL. Thereafter, MOW
would be responsible for providing the necessary finance for maintenance and
sub-contracting out the maintenance work to CARE as long as CARE remains in
the country or at least until the start of the planned Third Highway Project
(1984). For the unclassified chiefdom tracks, long term maintenance would be
carried out by the chiefdom authorities using local labor. Assurance was
given at negotiations that Government accepted financial responsibility for
continued maintenance of classified roads constructed under the project
(para 8.01).
3.07      To continue the successful well building program carried out under
the first phase, the construction unit would be provided with the resources to
construct 400 more wells in the project area. Standards of construction would
follow those approved by UNICEF. Updated direct costs allow Le 1,750 per
well. Wells would be fitted with bucket and winch water extraction systems
rather than hand pumps since the latter break down rapidly under village
conditions. The project would provide additional test drilling equipment to
minimize the risk of construction failure. In addition, the project would
provide funds for an evaluation of the water supplies, both potability and
sociological aspects (para 3.09), and for the provision of staff to educate
villagers in the hygienic use and sound maintenance of the wells, which would
be carried out as a community responsibility.
3.08      The building program for staff housing initiated but not completed
under the first phase would be continued, and five houses would be built to
improved standards for the senior staff to be recruited, in view of the
inadequacy of rented accommodation available. The project workshop would be
rehabilitated and expanded, and provided with adequate tools and repair
facilities.
3.09      Consultant Services, Technical Assistance and Training.  The project
would finance a total of 18 man-months of short-term consultant services for
the following special tasks: (i) a training overview of the courses conducted



- 13 -
by IPAM and others, to advise on the content and suitability of course
material and to evaluate the impact of training programs (four man-months
spread over five years); (ii) soil conservation and land use planning,
devising a plan for improved upland soil management and supervising the
construction of soil conservation works (12 man-months spread over five
years); (iii) cashew nut and other tree crop development, including coffee
and cocoa, to determine their appropriateness in the project area (two
man-months in PY2). These consultants would be contracted individually or
through firms, at an estimated cost of US$11,000/month, inclusive of travel
and subsistence. In addition, an evaluation would be conducted locally
(probably by the Leprosy Hospital near Makeni) into the benefits of the
village well building program; for this, a lump sum of US$25,000 has been
provided, which would allow for some use of internationally recruited con-
sultants if necessary. Although most consultants are likely to be recruited
internationally, efforts would be made to encourage participation by local
institutions and qualified Sierra Leoneans where possible. Assurances were
given at negotiations that consultants would be engaged with qualifications,
experience, terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and that Government
would promptly submit their reports to IDA for review (para 8.01). As de-
tailed in para 4.18, there is an apparent lack of suitable Sierra Leonean
staff and funds would be provided for five internationally recruited project
staff positions (totalling 18 man-years) estimated to cost US$80,000--$85,000
per man-year.
3.10      The project would continue financing the forestry nursery estab-
lished under the first -phase project, to carry out research on appropriate
species of fast growing trees for use in tobacco drying barns and as fuel
wood. Technical advice would continue to be provided by the MAF's Divisional
Forestry Office in Makeni. The project would also finance the training of
local staff in key areas such as management, accounting and credit services
(paras 4.21-4.27).
3.11      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would finance a Monitoring
and Evaluation Cell (MEC), consisting of a 15 person team (para 4.28), to-
gether with appropriate vehicles and equipment. In addition, the project
would finance the consultancy costs of the baseline survey. The analysis and
processing of the data collected would be done by the headquarters staff in
PEMSU, as part of the evaluation exercise being carried out on other IADPs
(Magbosi and Eastern III). Assurance was given at negotiations that con-
sultant services would be engaged to carry out a baseline survey under
terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA which
would be started by September 30, 1981 and completed one year later (para
8.01).
Cost Estimates
3.12      Project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties (from which the
project is exempt), are estimated at Le 29.1 million (US$27.7 million), of
which Le 18.8 million (US$17.9 million) or 65% would be foreign exchange
requirements. A summary of project costs is in Table 1 below; further details
are provided in Annex 1 and Working Paper C10.



- 14 -
Table 1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
------Le Million-----  -----US$ Million-----  Percentage
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total of Base Cost
Project Management         0.8      1.9      2.7    0.7       1.8     2.5      12
Extension, Training
and Agronomy              1.7      2.5      4.2    1.6      2.4      4.0      20
Commercial Services        0.6      1.3      1.9    0.6       1.2     1.8       9
Production Inputs          2.1      2.9      5.0    2.0       2.8     4.8      24
Livestock Services         0.6      1.0      1.6    0.6       0.9      1.5      7
Engineering Services       1.0      1.1      2.1    0.9       1.0     1.9       9
Road Construction          0.3      2.7      3.0    0.3       2.6     2.9      14
Consultancy and
Forestry Research         0.2      0.4      0.6    0.2      0.4      0.6       3
Monitoring and
Evaluation                0.2      0.2      0.4    0.2      0.2      0.4       2
Total Base Cost            7.5    14.0    21.5    7.1    13.3    20.4    100.0
Physical
Contingencies       0.2      0.6      0.8    0.2       0.6      0.8       4
Price
Contingencies        2.6     4.2      6.8    2.5       4.0      6.5      32
Total Project Costs       10.3    18.8    29.1    9.8    17.9    27.7
The base line cost estimate is based on mid-1980 prices updated to end 1980.
Cost estimates for civil works (swamp development, roads, wells and buildings)
are based on the experience in the first-phase IADP.  Incremental farm inputs
are costed at farmgate prices. Local staff costs reflect current civil service
scales, increased by 25% as agreed to by Government. Internationally recruited
staff costs, US$80,000-US$85,000 per man year, exempt from income tax, reflect
prevailing market conditions. Physical contingencies of 5% have been added for
civil works, equipment, non-labor farm inputs and operation and maintenance,
amounting to 4% of total base cost. Anticipated annual price increases,
amounting to 31% of total base costs plus physical contingencies, reflect pro-
jected inflation rates: for local personnel costs, 5% (in line with Government
policy); for local civil works and operation and maintenance costs, 15% in 1981,
13% in 1982 and 10% from 1983 onwards; for the foreign exchange component 9.0%
in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983 to 1985 and 6% in 1986; and for internationally
recruited personnel 8% per annum in keeping with UNDP practices. A detailed cost
table is in Annex 1 and Working Paper C10 and a summary in Table 1.
Proposed Financing
3.13      Ninety percent of project costs would be covered by the IDA, the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the African Development Fund (ADF). The



- 15 -
remainder of project costs would be covered by the Government of Sierra Leone.
The proposed financing plan is shown in Table 2 below (further details are in
Working Paper C9). The proposed IDA credit of US$8.5 million would be on
standard terms and would finance 31% of the total project costs. Along with
the IFAD loan of US$6.0 million, the IDA credit would jointly cover about 52%
(US$9.3 million) of the total foreign exchange costs; financing wholly or
partially the foreign exchange costs of the following components: vehicles and
equipment, production inputs, consultancy services and buildings, and an
internationally recruited senior accountant. In addition, the credit/loan
would cover about US$3.3 million of the domestic costs involved in those
categories as well as US$1.9 million of local personnel costs. The UNDP
grant of US$2.0 million would finance 15 man-years of expatriate technical
assistance and support services for the project. The ADF loan would be on
the same terms as the IDA credit and would cover the local and foreign ex-
change costs of the livestock services and engineering units; the foreign
exchange operating costs of the commercial services unit and the foreign
exchange costs of the roads component. The Government's contribution of
US$2.7 million or 10% of project costs would cover mostly local personnel and
operational costs.
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
IDA & IFAD 1/ ADF 2/      UNDP 3/-GOSL    TOTAL
Personnel                   2.2          1.6         1.5   1.0        6.3
Vehicles & Equipment        2.0          1.3         0.2   0.1        3.6
Road Construction            --          3.4           --   0.5       3.9
Buildings                   0.3         0.6           --   0.1        1.0
Operations & Maint.4/       2.5          1.6          0.3   0.8       5.2
Production Inputs           6.9           --          __   0.2        7.1
Consultancy & Research    0.6             --           --    --       0.6
TOTAL COSTS              14.5          8.5          2.0   2.7      27.7
Percentage                 52          31             7    10       100.0
1/   IDA would provide US$8.5 million and IFAD US$6.0 million on a joint-
financing basis.
2/   ADF would provide US$8.5 million on a parallel financing basis.
3/   A UNDP grant of US$2.0 million for technical assistance and some supps-t
facilities.
4/   Includes fuels, spares, office supplies, etc.



- 16 -
3.14      In view of the financial constraints facing the Government, it
would be essential for project success to provide prefinancing for certain
categories of project expenditures. ADF would establish a revolving account
of at least one quarter of their annual contribution to be replenished in
advance of each quarter for the road construction component, which would be
carried out for Government by CARE (paras 2.06 and 3.06), a non-profit orga-
nization which does not have the working capital to undertake the program.
PEMSU has already demonstrated its ability to design and supervise efficient
accounting systems in the ongoing IADPs. A condition of effectiveness would
be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the proposed IFAD and
ADF loans and the UNDP grant had been fulfilled (para 8.02).
3.15      Project Special Account.  Because Sierra Leone has difficulty in
prefinancing expenditures, an amount of US$100,000 equivalent, financed as
an advance from the credit and IFAD loan, would be deposited in a special
bank account, under the joint control of the Project Manager and the Finan-
cial Controller of PEMSU, which would be operated under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. Disbursements from this account would be in local
currency. Reimbursement applications to IDA would be accompanied by (i) a
statement of account transactions with the balance certified by the bank
holding the account; (ii) a reconciliation showing that the balance repre-
sents the original amount of the account, less payments awaiting reimburse-
ment by IDA, or small working advances. IDA would replenish the account
on receipt of these statements together with evidence of disbursements for
allowable expenditures. Should any disbursements be made from the special
account which are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would deposit the
corresponding amount in the special account. Assurances on these arrange-
ments have been obtained at negotiations (para 8.01).
Procurement
3.16      All goods and services financed under the IDA credit and IFAD loan
would be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Contracts, valued at
US$75,000 or more, for vehicles and equipment (US81.5 million) and for fer-
tilizers (US$1.2 million) would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB); purchases would be grouped into packages of at least US$75,000
whenever possible; contracts for items estimated at less than UIS$75,000 but
more than US$10,000 would be procured through local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA, or limited international bidding (US81.5
million). Contracts of less than US$10,000 for small items such as fuel,
spare parts, office supplies, tools, transportation of farm inputs, pesticides
and seedlings (US$5.2 million) would be procured through limited local tender-
ing based on at least three quotations. Hired labor for swamp development
(US$2.0 million) would be secured from the local markets. The services of
local personnel (US$1.9 million) would be recruited from existing Phase I
staff or the local market in accordance with Government procedures. Materials
for building wells and workshops would be procured under the above procedures,
and the construction would be carried out under force account. Contracts for
buildings, (US$0.3 million) would not be attractive to foreign contractors



- 17 -
due to their small sizes and dispersed locations and would, therefore, be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to IDA. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a
preference of 15% or the level of applicable import duty, whichever is lower.
The services of internationally recruited staff and consultants (US$0.9
million) would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Goods and
services financed by ADF (US$8.5 million) would be procured in accordance with
their procedures. The UNDP contribution of US$2.0 million would be for
technical staff. The GOSL contribution of US$2.7 million would be mainly for
local costs of staff salaries, production inputs, and operational expenses.
Disbursements
3.17      The proceeds of the IDA credit of US$8.5 million and the IFAD
loan of US$6.0 million would be disbursed in the ratio of 60:40 over five
years as follows:
SDR      Amount
Category                      Terms                 Million  US$ Million
I.    Production               100% of foreign exchange costs;    5.0           6.1
Inputs                   95% of local costs
II.   Civil Works              100% of foreign exchange costs;    0.2           0.3
- Buildings             95% of local costs
III.  Vehicles &               100% of foreign exchange costs;    1.5           1.8
Equipment                 95% if purchased locally
IV.   Consultant Services -  100% of foreign exchange costs;    0.7             0.9
Internationally and
Recruited Staff
V.    Staff                     65% of costs of local salaries    1.4           1.7
up to a maximum of
VI.   Operating Expenses       100% of foreign exchange costs;    1.8           2.2
90% of local costs
VII.  Initial Withdrawal                                             0.1        0.2
for Special Account
VIII. Unallocated                                                    1.1        1.4
3.18      A schedule of estimated disbursements is in Annex 2.  Disbursements
against vehicles and equipment, civil works, seeds and salaries and allowances
of internationally recruited staff would be fully documented. Disbursements
would be made against statements of expenditure, which would be checked from
time to time during project supervision, covering the following local cost
items: (i) work carried out under force account for the construction of wells
and buildings; (ii) local staff salaries; and (iii) minor miscellaneous
expenditures of the research component. The project's auditors would check
the reliability of statements of expenditure and would include a statement to



- 18 -
this effect in the annual statement of accounts. Assurance was given by
Government at negotiations that statements of expenditures would be properly
maintained for all items of expenditure not required to be documented and
submitted for IDA disbursement (para 8.01). It is expected that disburse-
ments would be completed by December 31, 1986.
Accounts and Audit
3.19      The Project Management Unit, in collaboration with PEMSU, would
prepare budgets and estimates of quarterly cash requirements based on appraisal
estimates but amended where necessary to reflect changes in costs and project
development policies.  The budgets would then be submitted to MAF for approval.
On the basis of the approved budget Government would (i) make appropriate
allocations in the MAF budget and release the necessary funds available to MAF
quarterly in advance, and (ii) make timely allocations of the necessary
foreign exchange for the importation of recurrent farm inputs and other goods
required under the proposed and previous projects.  Assurance to this effect
was given during negotiations (para 8.01). PEMSU, which set up the project
accounts, has satisfactorily supervised these accounts under Phase I, and
wo-ld continue to do so under the proposed project.  PEMSU would also be
responsible for the supervision and training of the internal auditor and
accountants hired under the project. However, an internationally recruited
senior accountant would be employed for the project for the first three years
to ensure the proper maintenance of project accounts and commercial services
transactions and to train accounts staff.
3.20      Government would cause MAF to: (i) establish and maintain separate
project-related accounts, in accordance with sound accounting practices al-
ready established under the previous project; (ii) have the accounts audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (iii) submit certified
copies of the audited accounts and the auditor's report to IDA within four
months of the end of each project year; (iv) ensure that the reports of the
auditors are of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request; and (v)
furnish such other information concerning its accounts as IDA may reasonably
require. Assurances to this effect were given during negotiations (para
8.01). Under the Phase I project these conditions have been satisfactorily
complied with.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
4.01      The Permanent Secretary MAF would have overall responsibility for
the Project, with day-to-day management provided by a Project Management
Unit (PMU) (Chart IBRD 21924) headed by an internationally recruited Project
Manager (PM), assisted by a locally recruited Deputy Project Manager.   This
structure worked satisfactorily under Phase I and no change is proposed until
MAF is ready to embark on a major reorganization including the integration of
IADPs.



- 19 -
4.02      PMU would be divided into six sections responsible for:
-    Field Services:  agricultural extension, farm survey and swamp
layout; soil conservation, seed multiplication and processing,
applied research, fruit tree nurseries, and farmer and extension
staff training;
-    Commercial Services:  supply of farm inputs, credit and coordination
of processing and marketing activities as required;
-    Accounts:  project accounts, procurements, stores, internal audit
(in conjunction with PEMSU), and budgetary control;
-    Administration:  personnel, staff transportation, registry, security
and public relations;
-    Engineering:  roads construction and rehabilitation, workshops,
well construction and evaluation, building construction, drawing
office; and
-    Livestock:  Mara Ranch, livestock extension services, and livestock
training services.
4.03      The PMU would be supported in Freetown by:  a Projects Coordinator
(PC), funded under the Eastern IADP III and working alongside the Chief
Agriculturalist, responsible for coordinating the activities of all MAF
projects; PEMSU (see para 1.17), providing financial control, accountancy
support and monitoring and evaluation services; and a project agent repre-
senting the PMU in Freetown.  The Projects Coordinator would be responsible to
the Permanent Secretary but would operate day-to-day activities from within
the office of the Chief Agriculturalist (CA). The PC would work independently
of PEMSU but would maintain a close relationship with it.
4.04      A Project Executive Committee (PEC) established under the ongoing
project would continue to operate, being primarily responsible for: approving
budgets; monitoring expenditure; and reviewing quarterly and annual reports.
It would be composed of the following MAF officials: Permanent Secretary
(Chairman), Chief Agriculturalist, Assistant Chief Agriculturalist, Projects
Coordinator, Chief Planning Officer, PEMSU Financial Controller, Project
Manager NIADP II, and Deputy Project Manager (Secretary).
4.05      A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), also established under the
ongoing project, would continue to operate as the coordinating body between
PMU and Northern Region officials. The Committee would advise project manage-
ment on local affairs and would assist in relationships between PMU and
chiefdom authorities. It would be comprised as follows: Provincial Secretary
(Chairman), Provincial Agricultural Officer, Divisional Officers for Works,
Health and Education, three farmer representatives, and a Paramount Chief,
the Project Manager and the Deputy Project Manager (Secretary).



- 20 -
Project Relationship with Provincial Agricultural Office
4.06      The roles of the Provincial Agricultural Officer (PAO) and the
Project Manager NIADP II are complementary. The PAO, responsible to the
Chief Agriculturalist in Freetown, is the Ministry-s regional representative
and the Project Manager operating independently maintains close coordination
with him. The PAO is responsible for all MAF activities not covered by the
IADPs (para 1.11). MAF staff seconded to the project are responsible to the
project and, due to the intensity of project activities, receive an inducement
allowance of 25% over their normal IMAF salaries (para 3.12).
4.07      The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is addressing the problem
of integration of the IADPs within a revised MIAF structure. Salary levels and
employment methods and conditions are being addressed by a committee set up by
MfAF to investigate alternatives. Following the committee's findings, a con-
sultancy may be provided under the Technical Services Agreement (Cr. 970-SL)
within the context of the preparation exercise for the agricultural services
project (para 1.10). At negotiations Government assurance was given that
its proposals for a reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
will be reviewed with IDA as they affect NIADP II not later than June 30, 1984
(para 8.01). Under EIADP III, where the whole region is covered by the
project, integration is being initiated and the experience of this project
will be reviewed in the light of the proposals for NIADP II. In view of the
MAF organizational changes which are likely to emerge over the next few
years, NIADP II initially will retain the same organization and employment
procedures as have been followed in the first phase project and will remain
semi-autonomous. Staff employed under the first phase project will either
be taken over as a financial commitment by Government, in the case of staff
restricted to Phase I activities, or will be employed under NIDAP II. Any
new staff will be obtained either by secondment from MAF and other Ministries
or as a last resort by direct employment.
Field Services
4.08      Extension Service.  The Training and Visit System, which was success-
fully introduced by the Phase I project, would be continued and expanded under
NIADP II.  Under this system the Village Extension Worker (VEW) operates
through contact farmers on a fortnightly cycle to coincide with the fortnightly
training session provided to him through his AO and through the training system
based at Batkanu. Under the project, each VEW would be provided with a motor-
cycle which he would pay for in equal monthly installments over a period of two
years. The ratio of extension workers to farmers would be about 1:300. Addi-
tional support comes from Agricultural Instructors (AIs) who are specialists
in such fields as swamp layout(7), land use planning (2), seed multiplication
(3), agronomy (1), and fruit tree crop culture (4). They report to two Agri-
cultural Officers (AOs) based at Makeni and Kamakwie. Training aspects ar.a
discussed at paras 4.23-4.24.



- 21 -
4.09      Research.  The Adaptive Crop Research and Extension Project (ACRE),
which is being financed by USAID, is expected to begin operations in 1981
(para 1.15). However, it is likely to take some years before ACRE's scien-
tifically produced results will meet the needs of project farmers. The project
therefore includes provision for applied research to be carried out on farmers-
holdings, Batkanu TC and VEWs- demonstration areas by the project unit. This
applied research will be conducted on issues having a direct relevance to
farmers' immediate needs and will be the responsibility of the Senior Agrono-
mist. Work will be conducted in cooperation with ACRE, who are expected to
take over all adaptive crop research work in the area in due course.
4.10      Seed M4ultiplication and Processing (details are in Working Paper
Cl). At national level, the MAF, assisted by Federal German aid, operates an
effective Seed Multiplication Project (SMP) which at present concentrates on
rice seed, though it is planned in the future for upland crops seed production
to be included. In 1980 SMP will be producing about 1,400 tons of seed
rice. At negotiations assurance was received from Government that MAF
would supply through its SMP sufficient rice seed in good time to meet the
project's annual requirements (para 8.01).
4.11      The first phase project encountered a serious seed problem, par-
ticularly in regard to groundnuts (para 2.11). Therefore, as the MAF is not
yet dealing with groundnuts or other upland seed, NIADP II will establish a
seed multiplication unit (SMU) managed by an internationally recruited senior
agronomist. The SM1's work will be carried out in consultation with the
MAF's SMP and, when appropriate, will be merged with the latter in consulta-
tion between IDA and GOSL. Adequate quantity and quality of groundnut seed
will be obtained by establishing a controlled network of production, and
purchasing and operating a seed drying and processing plant, with appropriate
storage facilities. Selected farmers would obtain their registered groundnut
seed from the SMU and, after multiplication, would then sell back to the SMU;
after processing, the seed would be sold for cash or credit for general use
by farmers. SMU½s price would be based on the market price plus an annually
reviewed premium to cover processing and handling costs. Total seed require-
ments during Year 5 (detailed in Working Paper Cl) are 340 tons rice, 190 tons
groundnuts, and 5 tons maize.
Commercial Services (See Working Paper C2)
4.12      The first phase project encountered problems in establishing a
viable credit operation for the reasons noted in para 2.11.  These deficiences
would be remedied under NIADP II by: (i) limiting the number of farm service
centers (FSCs) and subcenters to be built, thus reducing overhead expenses;
(ii) having farmers pick up inputs from the FSCs, thus reducing transporation
costs; (iii) lending to groups (instead of individual farmers), thus reducing
administrative costs; (iv) partially transferring responsibility for collec-
tion to group leaders, thus reducing collection expenses; (v) increasing
interest rates to 20% on seasonal loans and 15% on medium term loans, in line
with Government undertakings for the Eastern Phase III and Magbosi IADPs; (vi)
linking credit operations more closely to existing local administrative



- 22 -
structures; (vii) establishing and enforcing stricter rules for the handling
and control of credit funds; and (viii) enforcing stricter actions against
credit officials suspected of malpractices. Commercial services would be
reorganized under the Commercial Services Section (CSS). The establishment of
a more formalised institution would be influenced by the outcome of the study
for a possible nationwide credit program which is being done as part of the
preparation for the Agricultural Services Project (para 1.10).
4.13      The CSS would be headed by a locally recruited Commercial Services
Officer (CSO) assisted by an accountant who in turn would be supervised and
trained by the project's senior accountant. The services of a Credit Spe-
cialist would be shared with the Eastern IADP III. Terms of Reference are
in Working Paper C2. The Credit Specialist would establish and train staff in
the analysis of and subsequent management of CSS operations and in procedures
for disbursement and collection. The field staff employed under Phase I
would be increased by an additional 12 field staff under NIADP II, operating
from 13 farm service centers (FSCs) of which six would be constructed under
NIADP II and 15 subcenters, of which four would be new constructions. FSCs
would supply farm inputs for cash or credit and would also be used as the loan
repayment point.
4.14      Credit Arrangements.  Loans to farmers would be available at
nterest rates of 20% for seasonal and 15% for development loans. At nego-
tiations Government confirmed that these interest rates would apply to NIADP
II and that they would annually review with IDA seasonal and medium-term
interest rates charged under the project, with a view to obtaining interest
income sufficient to cover credit operating costs and maintaining the rates in
line with the levels of domestic inflation (para 8.01). Development loans
would be provided for swamps producing mainly rice, and uplands for fruit tree
crop establishment, and would be for labor costs of land development, masonry
work on water control structures, farm tools and, in the case of fruit tree
crops, seedlings, insecticides and fertilizers. Seasonal loans would be
provided for both swamp and upland farmers for seed, fertilizer, pest control
and sacks. Swamp development loans would be repaid in three annual and equal
installments following a one year grace period during which interest would be
capitalized. For tree crop development loans, the procedure would be similar
but the grace period would be extended to four years. Seasonal loans would be
due for repayment within 12 months of loan receipt. The credit specialist
(para 4.13) would review appropriate penalty impositions on overdue accounts--
these penalties are likely to be 0.3-0.4 percent per month. For development
loans farmers would contribute their own labor (valued at 50% of total swamp
development costs) before becoming eligible for cash payments of the labor
component. Appraisal of the creditworthiness of borrowing groups would be
undertaken with the support of the local community, and where necessary farm
budgets would be prepared to test the viability of farming operations.
4.15      Loans would be issued to groups of farmers, but with individual
accounts being kept. A group would consist of from five to 20 farmers who
naturally operate together in their farming operations. They would obtain
the benefits of pooled resources and would accept group responsibility for



- 23 -
loan repayment through their group leader, who would be elected from among the
group and who would be responsible for input collection from the FSC. His
reliability would be confirmed to the CSO by the Village Headman, through
Section Chiefs and the Paramount Chief. The project would enforce its debt
recovery through the local courts in the customary manner. In order that the
credit program could be continued and expanded Government provided assurance
at negotiations that all proceeds from the repayments of loans by farmers
would be deposited into a special account and utilized solely for providing
additional credit to farmers and to meet the costs of credit administration
incurred by the CSS (para. 8.01).
4.16      Farm Inputs.  The Commercial Services Section would charge an ade-
quate mark-up on inputs to cover handling costs. Fertilizer, totalling 4,300
tons in Year 5, would be delivered directly to FSCs or subcenters by contrac-
tor transport. Seed, totalling 540 tons in Year 5, would be collected from
the MAiFs SMP in the case of rice and from the project's SMU in the case of
groundnuts, either by hired transport or project vehicles, for delivery to
FSCs. Farm tools would be ordered in bulk, held in the project central store,
and distributed by project vehicles to FSCs or subcenters to meet requirements.
By Year 5, 48,000 fruit tree seedlings would be collectable by farmers at the
project-operated nurseries.
4.17      The project would engender amongst farmers a degree of confidence
in the credit and supply service by remunerating credit staff in accordance
with their responsibility and by ensuring prompt action in cases of misappro-
priation of funds.
Staffing and Training
4.18      Staffing.  Few additional senior staff are required to those in post
under Phase I (Chart IBRD 21924).  While most positions would be filled by
nationals, it is probable that some positions would have to be filled by
internationally recruited staff in the absence of experienced Sierra Leonean
personnel. Financial provision has been made for the following positions
which are likely to be filled by internationally recruited personnel from
PYI-PY4: Project Manager, Senior Agronomist, Chief Engineer, Senior Accoun-
tant and Livestock Training Officer. At negotiations assurance was given
that, however recruited, Government would appoint the following staff on terms
and conditions and with qualifications satisfactory to IDA: Project Manager,
Deputy Project Manager, Chief Engineer, Senior Accountant, Livestock Officer,
Livestock Training Officer, Senior Agronomist, Commercial Services Officer and
Project Accountant (para 8.01). A Livestock Officer (LO) would head the
Livestock Section assisted by an internationally recruited Livestock Training
Officer (LTO). Eighteen extension staff would mostly be seconded from MNR and
would be trained at Teko.
4.19      Under the ongoing project, some staff--for example, 3 agricultural
officers in training--have been recruited in readiness for NIADP II. Promo-
tion from within IADP II will also furnish some staff for NIADP II.   No
major problems are foreseen over recruitment of staff. Manpower requirements
are shown in the following table:



- 24 -
Senior      Intermediate        Junior       Total
under NIADP I (IADPII)       8              29               169          206
NIADP I & II Combined 1/   13               59 (15)          241 (80)    313 (95)
New Posts under NIADP II    5               30                72          107
1/   Figures in parenthesis denote staff required to maintain ongoing activ-
ities, to be paid by GOSL.
4.20      Staff promoted or transferred from NIADP I or obtained by secondment
would receive the 25% inducement allowance paid under NIADP I (para 3.12).
Those employed under direct recruitment will be paid the market rate, in
recognition that project employment for such staff offers no long term secu-
rity of employment nor retirement benefits. Phase I staff funded by Govern-
ment (para 4.07) will receive the same inducement benefits as other project
staff. At negotiations Government assurance was given that project staff
funded by Government would receive the same benefits as other project staff
(para 8.01).
4.21      Training (see Working Paper C6).  Management training was a de-
ficient feature of the first phase project and would be rectified under NIADP
II. In consultation with the Project Manager and Projects Coordinator, The
Institute of Public Administration and Management (IPAM) (para 1.16) would
provide management training for senior and intermediate project staff. The
project would provide for the local recruitment of a trainer in agricultural
management and development; funds would be available for overseas training
of this trainer. The Projects Coordinator would evaluate the project's train-
ing performance in conjunction with IPAI and a three man-month consultancy
has been provided to overview IPAM's training performance. At negotiations
assurance was given by Government that a suitably qualified trainer in
Agricultural Management and Development would be appointed in IPAM (para 8.01).
4.22      The first-phase project and other IADPs have experienced problems
with obtaining suitably qualified and experienced accountants. Under NIADP
II, funds will be provided for the recruitment of two relief accountants who
will be responsible to, and be trained by, the Financial Controller of
PEMSU. Credit staff have hitherto lacked any defined training under the
first phase project.  Under NIADP II, IPAM will provide special courses with
follow-up monitoring for the training of credit staff in accountancy control.
4.23      The Batkanu Training Center, run by a local training officer,
will be used for formalized training of extension staff (2 - 3 week courses),
to include aspects of credit and supply. Since women farmers play a major
part in agricultural activities, emphasis will be given to recruitment and
training of women extension workers.



- 25 -
4.24      Farmer training would conform to the training and visit system,
with fortnightly training sessions being conducted by extension staff who
would emphasize a key theme for each period. Extension staff would themselves
receive training support from their supervisors and from training instructors
operating out of Batkanu Training Center; these centers would be equipped with
four mobile vans, which will provide an important aid in the training program.
Additional aspects of farmer training would be through training and demonstra-
tion visits to farmers- holdings, the Batkanu Training Center, and VEW demon-
stration plots.
4.25      An internationally recruited Livestock Training Officer (LTO) will
provide courses for project and MNR livestock extension staff at Teko which
will have a capacity of 10 trainees per course. The LTO will follow up the
training at Teko for project staff by on-the-job training in the field.
4.26      Funds will be provided under the project for the overseas training
of three staff members to be identified during project implementation.
4.27      In the Engineering Section a roads engineer-in-training would
receive training from the Chief Engineer particularly in the maintenance of
unclassified chiefdom tracks.
Project Monitoring & Evaluation (Working Paper C6)
4.28      The Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Services Unit (PEMSU), which
was established under IADP II (Cr. 568/Ln 1138-SL), is the MAF's unit respon-
sible for evaluating and monitoring agricultural projects. The unit is being
further strengthened under the IDA Technical Assistance Project, Credit 970-SL
(para 1.17). A Monitoring and Evaluation Cell (MEC) will be based at Makeni
and staffed by a field control officer, two supervisors, six enumerators and
six clerks, together with appropriate equipment and transport. The MEC Unit
would be administered by the PM, the work program being established in col-
laboration with PEMSU and the Projects Coordinator and data analysis being
carried out by PEMSU. Consultancy funds are provided for carrying out base-
line and target area surveys.
4.29      Reporting Requirements.  Project Management with the assistance of
PEMSU would prepare quarterly and annual reports for its own use and for
the project executive and coordinating committees (paras 4.04-4.05). These
reports would be submitted to IDA for review promptly after each reporting
period. Quarterly and annual reporting proforma are in Working Paper C7.
At negotiations Government gave assurance that quarterly and annual reports
and a project completion report would be submitted promptly as specified by
IDA (para 8.01).
V. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
Agricultural Practices
5.01      Whilst recognizing that change to the traditional system must
necessarily be gradual, the project addresses identified weaknesses through
the following technological approaches:



- 26 -
improving swamp production with better water control measures,
fertilizer use, and seed, and the promotion of double-cropping;
improving upland production with better seed (groundnuts, rice
and maize), spacing, weeding and timing, fertilizer use and plant
utilization of fertilizer through improved placement and by improve-
ments to the crop rotation;
improving land use practices through soil conservation measures,
permanent cropping with increased fertilizer usage, the planting of
fruit tree crops, and the promotion of livestock as an enterprise
within the farming system to utilize permanent pastures.
Crop Farming
5.02      Swamp Farming.  Although upland farming occupies the majority of
cultivatable land (over 90%), swamp development, generally carried out on a
group basis, offers stronger long-term development prospects for Northern
Region farmers. Over the five-year period, NIADP II would develop 4,000 ha of
swamps - 1,000 of which will be in the NIADP I area. Practices established
under NIADP I generally proved effective (see Working Paper Cl), and would be
followed. However a number of modifications would be introduced. Development
.^-ans would be increased from Le 175/ha under NIADP I to Le 300/ha (Dlus an
additional Le 200/ha for 25% of swamps requiring masonry improvement to water
control structures). This takes into consideration inflationary factors and
the need for improved standards of water control structures. Swamp develop-
ment would be improved through: (a) increased levelling, (b) improved water
control, and (c) improved water control structures. Double cropping would be
encouraged; fertilizer rates increased and application practices improved.
Basic slag would be applied to counter iron toxicity.
5.03      Upland Farming.  The drastic reduction in the traditional bush
fallow cycle (para 2.05), as a result of increased population pressure, has
resulted in decreased yields, and soil erosion. The project would, through
its new agronomy unit, initiate steps towards halting this through soil
conservation measures, including contour bunding, to be carried out by the
farmers assisted by technical advice in layout and construction of conserva-
tion structures, permanent cropping and the establishment of fruit tree crops
(para 5.15). Fertilizer application rates (para 5.05) will be increased and
practices improved in line with research recommendations; as one result,
residual phosphates will permit a third crop to be grown (cassava). Following
brushing after bush fallow, the rotation will be upland rice, groundnuts, and
mixed cropping consisting of sorghum, millet and maize, tobacco and vegetables;
followed by cassava as a late season planting. The cassava would be harvested
in the third year and the land then allowed to revert to bush. In addition,
28% of project farmers grow 0.13 ha each of tobacco under a program organized
by the Rokel Leaf Tobacco Development Company.
5.04      Fruit Tree Crops.  Two nurseries for budded stock fruit trees would
be established at Makump near Makeni and at Kamakwie.  Fruit tree seedlings
available from the nurseries would be: citrus (oranges, grapefruit, sweet



- 27 -
lemon and limes), guava and mango. Development loans would be provided
(Le 300/ha) for seedling purchase, land preparation, fertilizer and insecti-
cide. There would be no minimum limit on the number of trees a farmer could
grow. Trees planted under the project would start commercial production in
Year 5 and would come into full bearing between PYll - 15. Fruit would be
sold mostly for local consumption, but also to meet the needs of the Mabole
Fruit Company. Expected yields are in Table 3.
5.05      Soil Fertility and Fertilizer Applications.  Soil problems in the
project area can be characterized by six factors: (i) acidic soils; (ii)
high humidity and high temperatures; (iii) high rainfall; (iv) undulating
topography; (v) iron toxicity; and (vi) poor structure and low clay content.
About 1,100 tons of fertilizer are currently used per year by the ongoing
project. However, there are weaknesses in current fertilizer application
rates and practices which, research results indicate, can be improved upon
under NIADP II: inorganic nitrogen application rates would be increased, and
timing of split doses improved; triple superphosphates would be used by the
project in increased quantities to Phase I, and fuller use made of residues in
subsequent cropping; muriate of potash would be applied to swampland rice,
groundnuts and maize, and to upland crops in their seco-nd year; basic slag
would be applied to swampland rice, where iron toxicity is a problem and to
upland groundnuts; for uplands, fertilizer would be dibbled into the soil
close to groundnuts, planted in the shell ensuring a 50% improvement in plant
utilization of fertilizer. On swamplands, where mounding is practiced,
fertilizer would be placed in a layer before the top 3-4 inches of soil is
added; better use of crop residues (groundnut haulm) and green manures would
be promoted; and extension services would also promote minimum tillage tech-
niques and better timing of cultural practices. Details of fertilizer appli-
cation rates and total fertilizer requirements are given in Working Paper Cl.
By project completion, some 4,300 tons of fertilizer would be applied annually
in addition to the 1,100 tons currently applied under Phase I (for which
Government would provide the necessary foreign exchange).
5.06      Crop Yields.  Estimates of crop yields are based on:  the results
of the first-phase project; research information from RRRS and NUC; the good
quality of swamps (soils and water availability) in the NIADP II area; expec-
ted responses to the fertilizer applications proposed under NIADP II; improved
cultural practices identified for promotion during Phase II; and the improved
quality of seed being made available from the MAF Seed Multiplication Project
(rice) and the project's SMU (groundnuts).  Estimates of crop yields before
and after development are shown in Table 3. With no project development,
yields would further diminish due to the reducing fallow cycle and lowering
soil fertility (para 5.03).



- 28 -
Table 3: CROP YIELDS
(Tons/ha)
Before
Development   Y1      Y2      Y3      Y4     Y5      Y6      Y7     Y8
Swampland  Rice (Paddy) l/  1.0        1.8    2.2    2.5    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8
Groundnuts        0.7      1.0    1.2    1.4    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5
Maize              -       2.0    2.2    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
Cassava 2/        0.5      0.8    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0          -
Upland     Rice (Paddy)       0.6      1.0    1.2    1.4    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5
Groundnuts        0.6      1.0    1.1    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2
Maize             1.3      1.6    1.8    2.0    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2
Mixed Crops       0.4      0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5          -
Cassava           2.0      4.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Tobacco           1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0          -
Fruit Tree
Crops                        -       -       -       -       -   10.0   15.0   20.0   25.0
1/ Assumes no water development.
2/ For leaves only.
5.07      Farm Labor.  The average family size is 9.7, of which five can be
counted as working hands including one youth of 12-15 years. Cropping programs
are planned around labor availability as the key limiting factor. Adequate
labor is available for employment to meet farm demands but is nevertheless not
plentiful. Wages are Le 1.50/day plus food. Labor profiles per farm and per
crop are shown in Working Paper Cl.
5.08      Farm models in Annex 7 illustrate four principal patterns of farm
usage around which, in practice, variations occur. The adoption rates
in Table 4 assume a uniform adoption of the package by 13,000 farmers--8,500
of whom are expected to come from the NIADP II area and 4,500 from the Phase I
area.
Table 4: ADOPTION RATES
No. of farmers
PYl    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5    TOTAL
Type A - Swamp package 1                100    150    250    250    250    1,000
Type B - Swamp package 2                300    450    750    750    750    3,000
Type C - Upland (including tobacco)  165    335    500    500    500    2,000
Type D - Upland                         500  1,200  1,300  2,000  2,000    7,000
TOTAL FARMERS                        1,065  2,135  2,800  3,500   3,500  13,000



- 29 -
Livestock
5.09      Livestock Development (see Working Paper C4).  Although 90% of the
85,000 cattle are owned by pastoral Fulah, the crop farmers who own the rest
present the best opportunity for intervention. With regard to sheep and goats,
which are also important (totalling 77,000), these can be reached by the same
approach used for cattle.
5.10      Livestock Extension Centers.  Six centers (see map IBRD 15255),
currently run by MNR as stock movement control posts would be rehabilitated
and used as livestock extension centers. Project-recruited extension staff
would be equipped with motor cycles for field coverage. Extension staff would
demonstrate and teach farmers basic livestock husbandry techniques such as
dosing, castrating, parasite control, and foot treatment and would provide for
cash basic requirements such as anthelmintics and mineral bricks. Extension
workers would operate a training and visit system similar to that used
successfully by the agricultural extension service.
5.11      Village Cattle Development Units (VCDUs).  Cattle-owning crop
farmers experience problems in managing their stock within an agricultural
system based on cropping. Farmers at present often operate their cattle as
communal herds but systematized control or management is generally lacking.
Under the project, extension staff will advise and demonstrate to cattle
owners how to improve their livestock management by operating communally
operated Village Cattle Development Units (VCDUs). The project would provide
assistance in water development. Other developments such as fences or handling
pens would be carried out by the VCDUs with advise provided by livestock
extension staff. VCDUs are likely to require about 100-200 ha of enclosed
land, enough for individually owned cattle to be held under communal control
during the crop growing season, when grazing is abundant. During the dry
season, cattle would be grazed outside the controlled units on stubble and
rough grazing, as at present, but under improved management advice.
5.12      Mara Ranch, initiated under the Phase I project, would be completed
so that it is able to provide a demonstration station for extension workers
and livestock owners. Practices would be appropriate for use by farmers using
only their own resources and extension service advice. The ranch would be
brought up to full stocking (590 head) and trial work carried out on practical
issues such as pasture improvement and livestock nutrition.
5.13      Draft Oxen.  Few farmers have responded to past attempts to interest
them in the use of draft oxen. A renewed effort would be made under the
project.  Demonstration teams of draft oxen will be operated at the Mara Ranch
and at Batkanu Training Center, in conjunction with trial work at Njala
University College.
5.14      Livestock Benefits.  Response to the project-s initiatives is
expected to be modest and potential benefits are unlikely to become evident
rapidly. By Year 10, 58% of the Temne owned herd would be contacted; 47% of
the Fulah owned herd; and 30% of the sheep and goats. Over a 10-year period,



- 30 -
the following improvements are expected: age at first calving reduced from
42 to 34 months; calving percentage increased from 52% to 62% (55% for Fulah
herds); young stock mortality reduced from 29% to 20% (23% for Fulah herds);
adult stock mortality reduced from 7.5% to 5%; and dressing out to increase
from 45% to 50%.   These improved indices are expected to result in an
increased offtake by Year 10 from 8% to 10% in the case of Fulah herds and
from 8% to 11% in the case of Temne herds. Average carcass weight of cattle
sold from contacted Fulah herds is expected to increase from 80kg to 90 kg per
head over the 10-year period. For Temne herds it is expected to increase from
80 kg to 105 kg per head. Incremental benefits over the 10-year period from
the Fulah herd would be 130 tons meat worth US$324,000 and from the Temne
herd 28 tons meat worth US$70,000. A further 10 tons meat worth US$25,000
would be produced annually by the Mara Ranch. In addition, 39 tons of goat
and sheep meat is expected to be produced by Year 10, worth US$156,000.
The Environment
5.15      The project would aim to check the soil denudation and erosion
created by decreasing fallow periods on the uplands, especially through the
planting of fruit tree crops and the setting aside of grazing areas. With
regard to human health, the incidence of schistosomiasis or other diseases
associated with swamp deve'lopment is not considered to be sufficiently serious
to justify initiating any major control campaign.
VI. DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Demand
6.01      At full development by 1990 the project would contribute incremental
annual output of about 18,000 tons of paddy (equivalent to about 11,000 tons
of rice), 5,000 tons of unshelled groundnuts, 2,500 tons of cassava tubers
and 200 tons of leaves, 800 tons of maize and 350 tons of subsistence crops
such as millet, sorghum, beans, peas etc. The citrus and fruit tree component
would reach full production of about 19,000 tons by 1993. The incremental
annual livestock production would amount to about 200 tons of meat by 1990.
All incremental production that is not consumed on farm would be easily
absorbed into the domestic market. The country is a net importer of food,
including rice which is the major staple.  Government projects an annual
deficit of about 30,000 tons of rice persisting into the 1980s.
6.02      Groundnuts and cassava are also major components in the national
diet. In the early 1950s Sierra Leone was an exporter of groundnuts but higher
local consumption and declining production (para 1.06) have resulted in
acute shortages on the domestic market. In addition to the consumption
demand, a proposed NAPCO (para 1.13) processing plant would require at
least 400 tons per annum. Cassava is a substitute for rice in the local diet
and incremental production would find a ready demand in and around the project
area. Maize that is surplus to on-farm consumption would be sold to feed



- 31 -
mills or to meet domestic consumption demand. The incremental citrus and
fruit would be purchased by local traders for local consumption and by the
Mabole Fruit Company, which is located in the project area and is currently
operating below capacity. The incremental meat production would mainly be
consumed in Freetown but also in and around the project area--at present there
are considerable imports of livestock from Guinea into the country.
Marketing
6.03      The food crops would be marketed through the existing network
of private traders, which is adequate for handling the increased volume
of production. Since project farmers are subsistence oriented, only a part
of the incremental production would be marketed: estimated at 50% for rice,
60% for groundnuts, 70% for maize, 50% for cassava tubers and leaves, 90% for
citrus and fruits and 80% for livestock. Surplus rice is sold to itinerant
traders who may sell directly to consumers in Makeni and other nearby towns,
or to larger traders who transport it to the main rice deficit regions.
Cassava is marketed through contract harvesters/traders. The other crops are
also purchased by itinerant traders but in addition NAPCO is involved in the
groundnut trade and operates its own transportation fleet. The Mabole Fruit
Company also operates a transportation system for the collection of fruit.
6.04      In the cattle industry, dominated by the Fulah (para 1.07), there
are close ties between all levels in the chain - herdsmen, traders, butchers
and retailers. Given the closed nature of the system it is difficult to obtain
information on prices and margins; however there is competition among members
and the system appears to operate efficiently.
6.05      About 80% of the rice produced in the project area is traditionally
processed by hand-pounding, yielding rice with 40-45% brokens and recovery
rates of 62-68%. The remaining 20% is processed by small scale mills with
recovery rates of 50-70%. About two-thirds of the rice is parboiled before
pounding or milling. On-farm storage, consisting mainly of storage bins above
the fire-places, is efficient in controlling pests and mould but storage
capacity is limited.
Prices
6.06      The price of paddy is set by the Government at about Le 278/ton
(Le 7.50/bushel) but prices fluctuate seasonally and geographically depending
on the prevailing market conditions; during the last shortage at the end of
1979 prices reached Le 390/ton. The prices of other commodities are determined
largely by competitive practices. However, distortions may arise in situations
of farmer indebtedness and pledging of crops to a trader. The project would
reduce indebtedness to traders by providing adequate credit to farmers. The
financial and economic prices used herein are based on the existing prices and
IBRD forecasts. Farmgate prices are in Table 5. For the tradable commodities,
the economic prices were determined by the shadow exchange rate of US$1.00 =
Le 1.20. Details are in Working Paper Cll.



- 32 -
TABLE 5: FARMGATE PRICES
-------Financial -------      --------Economic------
1980     1985      1990       1980     1985      1990
Output
Rice                    280.0    420.0    430.0       325.0    470.0    485.0
Groundnuts              330.0    380.0    415.0       357.0    406.0    441.0
Maize                   240.0    350.0    355.0       372.0    395.0    406.0
Cassava - Tubers        100.0    100.0    100.0       123.0    123.0    123.0
Leaves        400.0    400.0    400.0       423.0    423.0    423.0
Other mixed crops       250.0    250.0    250.0       273.0    273.0    273.0
Citrus                  100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0    100.0    100.0
Livestock             2,200.0  2,200.0  2,200.0   2,200.0  2,200.0  2,200.0
Inputs
Urea                    291.2    369.0    387.0       325.5    415.5    436.0
TSP                     276.0    316.0    321.0       310.0    355.0    360.0
Muriate of Potash       181.0    186.0    206.0       200.0    205.0    225.0
Basic Slag              111.0    126.0    131.0       120.0    135.0    144.0
Financial Implications for Farmers
6.07      The relative profitability and returns to resources in the various
cropping activities in the development program are shown in Annex 6. The wide
variations in returns reflect the differences in the intensity of resource use
among crops and the variations in yields between upland and swamp farming.
While swamp farming is more labor intensive than upland farming, the returns
per hectare and per manday of labor are higher; however, upland farming would
continue to be the predominant activity in the area due mainly to traditional
preferences and, to a lesser extent, the limited availability of swampland.
While returns to the citrus and fruit trees component would be very high, they
are a cash crop and have a long development period and since the farmers
are subsistence oriented those that join the program are not expected to grow
more than 1/10 ha each, on average. The subsistence-orientation and risk
averse attitudes of the farmers dictate combinations of crops that may vary
from the profit-maximizing choices.
6.08      The crop combinations and returns of four representative types of
farming systems are presented in Annex 7; the corresponding family and per
capita incomes are summarized in Table 6 below. Due mainly to the constraints
of labor at peak periods, swamp farms are smaller than upland farms. However,
as the returns per factor are higher in swamp farming, at full development
there would be very little variation in incomes among farming families in the
project. All farmers would earn considerable increases in incomes. Swamp
farmers with farms of about 1.5 ha each would earn average family incomes of
about Le 1,250 (US$1,190) while the upland families with a 2.6 ha farm would
earn about Le 1,336 (US$1,272); whereas in the absence of the project their
incomes in 1990 would have been Le 457 (US$435) and Le 575 (US$548) repectively.



- 33 -
Table 6: FARM INCOMES
Constant end 1980 prices
Farm Model                        A           B         C          D
Cropped Area (ha)                 1.6         1.5       2.6        2.6
Approx. No. of Farmers            1,000       3,000     2,000      7,000
Farm Income: Leones 1/
Present                         337.0       295.0     529.8      395.3
1990 w                          488.0      446.0      674.1      547.2
1990 W                       1,170.8    1,275.8   1,415.5   1,313.7
Per capita Incomes 2/
Leones
Present                          34.7       30.4       54.6       40.8
1990 W                           50.3       46.0       69.5       56.4
1990 w                          120.7      131.8      145.9      125.1
Us$
Present                          33.0       29.0       52.0       39.0
1990 w                           47.9       43.8       66.2       53.7
1990 W                          115.0      125.5      139.0      119.1
W    Without Project.
W    With Project.
1/   See Annex 2 Table 2.
2/   Family Size of 9.7.
Financial Implications for Government
6.09      The project would not directly generate revenue to the Government
since, at present, there are no taxes levied on the commodities that would be
produced under the project. However, evidence from the earlier project and
similar projects elsewhere in the country suggests .that there would be some
secondary economic activities that would be induced by the project in the
construction, rice and groundnut processing, trading and other servicing
sectors. Revenues from indirect taxation would therefore increase, although
precise quantification is not possible at this time.
6.10      The Government cash flow (Annex 8) is negative, which is typical
for such a project. The annual Government net cash deficit, (including
recurrent expenditures for Phase I and net of loan repayments by farmers),



- 34 -
averages Le 0.5 m (US$0.5m) during the five-year investment period but will
increase to about Le 1.5 million (US$1.4 million) by project year 11. The
annual subsidies on fertilizers (under both phases) are expected to decline
from about Le 100,000 in year 1 to about Le 58,000 in year 3 and then be
removed altogether, since the Government has agreed to a phased removal of
the subsidy by 1985 under the Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development
Project III (Cr. 1094-SL). The annual contribution from the Government to
the development costs of the Phase II project would average about Le 0.6 m
(US$0.5 m) (see Working Paper C.9). The recurrent costs for administration,
extension and other services and roads maintenance under IADP II (Cr. 568/Ln
1138-SL) amount to about Le 500,000 and would be financed solely by the
Government. At negotiations, an assurance was given that Government would
make the allocations in the MAF budget, provide the necessary foreign ex-
change, and also increase the funds as necessary to maintain these services
at a comparable level (para 8.01). The recurrent costs for maintaining the
services of the Phase II project would be about Le l.Om at the end of the
investment period.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Overall Benefits
7.01      It is estimated that there would be about 13,500 farm families
(40% of total rural families in the Northern IADP I and II areas) who would
earn significantly higher incomes (para 6.08) under the various crop and
livestock improvements, and credit programs. As indicated in the tables on
representative farm incomes - Table 6 and Annex 7 - all of these families
currently earn per capita incomes that are below the relative rural poverty
level of US$67 for Sierra Leone. The impact of the project on farm incomes
through crop development would be distributed more or less equally over the
different farming systems, the largest increment in farm income of Le 830
(US$790) would accrue to Model B (23% of total project families) while
the smallest of Le 683 (US$650) would be to Model A (8% of total project
families). By full development -- 1987 for the food crops, 1991 for the
citrus and fruit trees -- annual on farm employment would increase by about
1.5 million mandays. The improvement of the road network and the provision of
village wells would reach beyond these direct beneficiaries to a considerably
larger proportion of the rural population. There would also be spin-off
effects from the strengthening of the institutional services and the expansion
of credit. Additional employment would also be created by the increase in the
level of economic activity that would be induced by the project in other
sectors such as trading, rice processing, construction, transportation etc.
It is estimated that nearly 50% (17,000) of the rural families in the Project
Area would benefit in some way under the proposed project.
7.02      As Sierra Leone is a net importer of food (para 1.04) the incre-
mental foodcrop production would represent considerable potential for annual
net foreign exchange savings. By 1990 the incremental annual output of rice
and groundnuts would be worth, at border prices, at least US$7.0 million (in



- 35 -
real 1980 terms) net of the foreign exchange costs of farm inputs. The
incremental production of the other commodities - maize, cassava, mixed
vegetables and other crops, citrus and livestock - would have a net value of
at least Le 2.5 million per annum (US$2.4 million) on the domestic markets.
7.03      The training programs and institution building to be introduced
under the project would improve local capability and facilitate planning and
implementation of future development programs. The improved animal production
services would increase the value of smallholder livestock production and
improve the general quality of livestock in the area. The livestock training
program and the trials with mixed cropping and the use of oxen as draught
power are of major importance in identifying means of transforming agriculture
in this area which is constrained by labor availability (under the existing
cultivation practices) and the limited alternatives for cash cropping.
Economic Rate of Return
7.04      The Economic Rate of Return is estimated to be 21% (Annex 9,
Table 1). The important assumptions underlying the analysis are:
(a) Benefits: Only the direct benefits from the incremental crop
production that would be generated by the project are included.
Yields, acreages and production are as in Chapter 5. The economic
farmgate prices are shown in Table 5, the bases of their derivation
are in Working Paper C8.
(b) Costs: All investments in training, operation and maintenance
costs that are directly related to the generation of the identified
benefits are included in the analysis. For operations after
the five year development period it is assumed that a smaller
agricultural and extension staff would be required to maintain
the momentum achieved. A breakdown of the recurrent operational
costs is shown in Annex 9, Table 1.
(c) Shadow pricing: All foreign exchange costs and benefits are
shadow-priced at an exchange rate of Le 1.20 = US$1. Given the
labor situation in the area and the high spatial mobility of
the younger members of the farming population, family labor is
priced at the average market wage of Le 1.50 per manday.
(d) Project life: The economic life of the project is assumed
to be 25 years including a 5-year implementation period.
Risks and Sensitivity
7.05      The proposed project would be the second phase in the area and
would build upon the organizational structures and techniques developed in the
first phase so that normal risks associated with projects of this kind would
be minimized. However, two constraining factors would be:



- 36 -
(a) a delay in achieving an expanded and effective extension service;
(b) a failure to improve the recovery rates of the credit program and
the resulting effect on maintaining an adequate flow of inputs at
the appropriate times.
These situations are best obviated through solid institutions with good
organization and management. Therefore the training sections for both the
crop development and livestock programs would be strengthened (paras 4.21-
4.26). With regards to the credit program an internationally recruited credit
specialist under the (recently approved) Eastern Integrated Agricultural
Development Project III would devote about half his time to restructuring the
NIADP II credit system (para 4.13).
7.06      Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to evaluate the impact of
various adverse factors on the economic rate of return (ERR) and determine
which variables would be most crucial to the success of the project. As a
measure, switching values 1/ using an opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of
15% were computed. The numerical results indicated that in its present
design the project is fairly resilient to the possible risks and would remain
economically viable under various adverse conditions in any of its components.
The percentage changes between the appraisal estimates and the switching
values for the main variables were for the total benefit stream -16%, for the
project development costs +58%, recurrent costs +242%, farm production costs
+32% and -23% for the rice program which is the main component in the benefit
stream. The project would become economically unviable if yields of the major
crops fell by about 15% because farmers failed to follow the recommended
practices with respect to (a) fertilizer applications and applied only between
75-50% of the recommended dosages, or (b) the cultivation techniques for the
various crops. The project would still be viable even if adoption rates were
only about 85% of the anticipated levels, or if real prices declined by about
one sixth of their projected levels. A more detailed sensitivity analysis of
possible outcomes is presented in Annex 9, Table 2.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01      The following assurances were given by the borrower during negotia-
tions:
1/   The switching value is the value of the variable tested at which the
net present value (NPV) of the project, discounted at the OCC, is zero;
in other words, the value beyond which the ERR would be below the OCC.
The switching value may be interpreted as a measure of how far the
variable can differ from its most likely value before the project becomes
economically unviable.



- 37 -
(a) that it accepted financial responsibility for continued mainte-
nance of penetration roads constructed under the project (para
3.06; Credit Agreement 4.01(c) and 5.03);
(b) that consultants would be engaged with qualifications, experiences,
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and that their reports
would be submitted promptly to IDA for review (para 3.09; Credit
Agreement 4.02);
(c) that consultant services would be engaged to carry out a baseline
survey under terms of reference and conditions of employment
satisfactory to IDA which would be started by September 30, 1981 and
completed one year later (para 3.11; Credit Agreement 4.01(g));
(d) that the project's special bank account into which IDA would
advance up to US$100,000 equivalent in Leones would be operated
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.15; Credit
Agreement 3.02);
(e) that statements of expenditures would be properly maintained for all
items of expenditure not required to be documented and submitted for
IDA disbursement (para 3.18; Credit Agreement 5.01(b)(v));
(f) on the basis of the approved budget, Government would (i) make
appropriate allocations in the MAF budget and release the necessary
funds available to MAF quarterly in advance and (ii) make timely
allocations of the necessary foreign exchange for the importation
of recurrent farm inputs and other goods required under the proposed
and previous projects (para 3.19; Credit Agreement 4.06(a) and (b));
(g) that Government would cause MAF to make satisfactory accounting,
auditing and reporting arrangements and would ensure that project
progress reports and a project completion report are submitted as
specified by IDA (paras 3.20 and 4.29; Credit Agreement 4.04(b),
5.01(a) and (b));
(h) that Government would review its proposals for a reorganization
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry with IDA as they
affect NIADP II not later than June 30, 1984 (para 4.07; Credit
Agreement 5.04);
(i)  that MAF would supply through its SMP sufficient rice seed in
good time to meet the project's annual requirements (para 4.10;
Credit Agreement 4.07);
(j) that Government would set interest rates on seasonal and development
loans at 20% and 15% respectively and would annually review with
IDA and if necessary revise the rates charged under the project to
reflect variations in domestic inflation and the costs of administer-
ing the credit program (para 4.14; Credit Agreement 4.08);



- 38 -
(k) that all proceeds from the repayment of loans by farmers would be
deposited into a special account and utilized solely for providing
additional credit to farmers and meeting the costs of credit admin-
istration incurred by the Commercial Services Section (para 4.15;
Credit Agreement 4.11);
(1) that qualified and competent staff, acceptable to IDA, will be
appointed to the positions of Project Manager, Deputy Project
Manager, Chief Engineer, Senior Accountant, Livestock Officer,
Livestock Training Officer, Senior Agronomist, Commercial Services
Officer and Project Accountant (para 4.18; Credit Agreement 4.09);
(m)  that project staff funded by Government would receive the same
benefits as other project staff (para 4.20; Credit Agreement 4.10);
(n) that a suitably qualified trainer in Agricultural Management
and Development would be appointed to the Institute of Public
Administration and Management (para 4.21; Credit Agreement 4.01(h));
and
(o) that Government would finance the costs needed to maintain existing
Project services and that funds would be increased as necessary
to maintain these services at a comparable level (para 6.10; Credit
Agreement 5.02).
8.02      The following would be a condition of effectiveness:  that all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the proposed IFAD and ADF loans
and the UNDP grant had been fulfilled (para 3.14; Credit Agreement Article
7.01);



- 39 -
Annex I
SIERRA LEONE
OFhEIEROS INTEGRATED AGRICtLTURAL DEVELGPFENT PROJECT - PhASE II
Project Costs
(tLe ' (001
Pyl            Py2            Py3            Py4             PyT          Total            Foreign Exchange
Project Management
Personnel                                          231.Y           281.'          2s1.1          201.8          41i. o         1,d9.                  580.u
Vehicles and Equipmen                               102.0            9.6           -             102.0             9.6          223.2                 200.9
Ruildings                                            90.0           -                      - °C.5
-'perntios; and Ilasrenance                        231.0          233.5           233.5          233,3          233.5        1,1b5.0                1,04-.'
Subtotal                                      754.           ,24.9          515.3           737.3          384.9        2,667.2                1,88
Extension, Training and Agroonom
Personnel                                           372.6          372.6          372.6          372.6           292.6       1,783 .3                  2J.O
Vehicles and Equiprent                              656.4           40.2           19.8          356.4            40.2        1,113.0               1,002 .3
Buildings                                           100.0           -                             -              -              100.0                  60.0
Operations and Maintenance                          264.8          -39.8          239.8          239.8          239.8         1,224.0               1,101.6
duototal                                    1,393.8          6S2.6          632.2           368.-          572.b        4,220.0                2,483.9
Commercial Services and Production Inputs                                                                              92.)          462.,
Personnel                                            92.0            213.                         92.5           92o8u.
Vehicles and Equipment                              126.0           35.1           43.2          126.0           85.2           465.6                 419.0
Buildings                                            54.3           48.8           36.8           _               -             139.9                   83.9
Operations and Maintenance                          115.9          142.2          212.8          174.0          220.5           865.4                 778.9
Production Inputs                                  386.0           719.0        1,172.0        1,318.n        1,395.o        4,990.0                2,935.0
Subtotal                                      774.7        1,087.7        1oj7.3         .i,.;          1,Thn.Ž         6,32_.4                4,216.R
ives took
Personnel                                           135.3          15Y.3          158.3          158.3            75.3         711.5                  32O.0
Vehicles and Equipment                               92.1            0.1           35.0           66.6            34.8         234.6                  211.1
Buildings                                           287.8            gl.O          23.0           -               -             319.8                  192.0
Operations anJ Mainterance                           89.3           66.3           58.4           62.2            62.2          338.4                  304.6
Subtotal                                      e27.5          239.7           274.7          287.1         175.3          1,604.3
Engineerins Services and Road Conetructior
Personnel                                          -53.5           23b.5          236.5         15b.5           151.7         1,02L.0                 240.o
Vehicles and Equipment                              342.0           96.0           96.o          141.6            -             675.6                 603.0
Buildings                                           138.5           -              -              -              -              138.5                  83.1
Operations and Maintenance                           50.0           50.0           50.0           50.0           50.0          250.0                  223.0
Road Construction                                    46.8        1,546.8          661.8          661.8            46.8       2,964.0                2,667.6
Subtotal                                      o1.o        5,07. 2         i,0)44..       .,OOy.7          2)3.o        5,050.6                3,823.7
'onaultancy, Training and Researci                       187.0          128.0            98.0           86.o           63.0          562.0                  359.0
Mronitorong and Evaluation
Personnel                                            80.6          48.0            4si.6          4.0.           40.6
Venicles and Equipment                               59.4            0.9           21.8            16.4           21.8          120.3                  108.3
Operations and Maintenance                           10.4            9.2            9.2             9.2            9.2           47.2                   42.5
Subtotal                                      110.4            50.7           71.6           66.2           71.6          370.e                  150.8
Total Base Costs                                       4,612.0        4,012.0        4,iP?.4         4,665.'       3,313.9        21,393.:               13,945.-
Physical Contingencies                              161.3          164.7          145.6          177.4           122.2          771.2                 603.9
Price Contingencies                                648.7         1,059.6        1,364.4        1,981.e        1,723.7        7,770.2                4,190.1
Total Project Costs                                    5,422.0        5,837.2        5,703.4        6,825.0         5,159s.       2Y,947.4               18,744.3



Annex 2
- 40 -
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                                                  Cumulative
Quarter                      Disbursement                  Disbursement
FY 82  1st Quarter                   0.1                            0.1
2nd Quarter                   0.3                           0.4
3rd Quarter                   1.1                           1.5
4th Quarter                   1.0                           2.5
FY-83  1st Quarter                   0.5                            3.0
2nd Quarter                   0.4                           3.4
3rd Quarter                   0.4                           3.8
4th Quarter                   0.4                           4.2
FY 84  1st Quarter                    0.4                           4.6
2nd Quarter                   0.3                           4.9
3rd Quarter                   0.3                           5.2
4th Quarter                   0.3                           5.5
FY 85  1st Quarter                   0.3                            5.8
2nd Quarter                   0.3                           6.1
3rd Quarter                   0.3                           6.4
4th Quarter                   0.3                           6.7
FY 86  1st Quarter                   0.3                            7.0
2nd Quarter                   0.3                           7.3
3rd Quarter                   0.3                           7.6
4th Quarter                   0.3                           7.9
FY 87  1st Quarter                   0.3                            8.2
2nd Quarter                   0.3                           8.5



SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DhVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
Annual Crop Development Program
(hectare)
Pyl        PY2        PY3            PY4          PY5     PROJECT DEVELOPMENT           YEAR 6          TOTAL FOR EXB(ENDF  PERIOD
Type A    Swamp Rice Pkg. A                  100         150        250           250          250            1,000                     -                   1,000
B    Swamp Rice Pkg. B                  300         450        750           750          750           3,000                      -                   3,000
lst Crop:  Rice
2nd Crop:  Groundnuts            75         110        185            185          185             740                     -                     740
Maize                15          25         40             40           40             160                     -                     160
Sweet Potatoes
& Cassava          45          65        110           110          110              440                     -                     440
Vegetable -
Crop Mix           15          25         40            40           40              160                     -                     160
C    Upland Rice Type C
Rice                            200         400        600           600           600           2,400                     -                   2,4oo
Groundnuts                       -           95        185           275           275             830                   275                   1,105
Tobacco                          -           20         45             65           65             195                    65                     260
Maize                             -           10        15             25           25              75                    25                      100
Crop Mix  2J                     -           75        155           235          235              700                   235                     935
Fruit Trees                      -           20         30             50           50             150                    50                      00
D    Upland Rice Type D                                                                                                                                8
Rice                             600      1,400      1,560         2,400        2,400            8,400                     -                   °'4°0
Groundnuts                       -           350       840            910        1,400           3,500                 1,400                    4,900
Maize                             -           22         54            59           90             225                    90                      315
Crop Mix                         -          230        552            598          920             230                   920                    3,220
Fruit Trees                      -            50       120            130          200             500                    50                      550
Cassava                          60          144       156           240           240             840                                            840
j    Tobacco grown under contract with Rokel Leaf Tobacco Development Corporation - max. 0.13 ha/farmer (not suhject to improvement
under the project).
|    Crop Mix includes sorghum, millet, okra, ginger, beans and yams.
Includes citrus, mangoes and guava.
The upland cropping rotation is Year 1 rice; Year 2 groundnuts and other crops.  Therefore project benefits
fojr the second season are lagged one year and the project cropping program extended to Year 6.
(Ammended November 13, 1980)



SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE 1I
1/
Total and Incremental Crop Production (tons)
PY1       PY2         PY3        PY4         PyS       PY6        Py7         PY8        PY9         PYIO       PYI1-25
Rice:
Swamp Virgin           _                 180       490        1,030      1,655       2,280      2,530     2,680       2,755       2,755      2,755      2,755
W                            -           -           -          -          -         -           -           -          -
I                180        490       1,030       1,655       2,280     2,530      2,680      2,755       2,755       2,755      2,755
Partially Developed
W                 540      1,470       3,090      4,965       6,975      7,725     8,175       8,400      8,400       8,400      8,400
W                 300        750       1,500      2,250       3,000      3,000     3,000       3,000       3,000      3,000      3,000
I                240         720      1,590       2,715       3,975     4,725      5,175      5,400       5,400       5,400      5,400
Upland                 W                 800      2,800       5,488      9,368      13,584    15,000    15,900       16,200      16,200     16,200    16,200                       I
W                480       1,584       2,880      4,080       6,480     6,480      6,480       6,480      6,480       6,480      6,480
1                320       1,216      2,608       5,288       7,104     8,520      9,420      9,720       9,720       9,720      9,720
Total Rice             W               1,520      4,760       9,608     15,988      22,839    25,255    26,755       27,355      27,355     27,355    27,355
W                 780      2,334       3,380      6,330       9,480      9,480     9,480       9,480      9,480       9,480      9,480
I                740       2,426      6,228       9,658      13,359    15,755    17,275       17,875     17,875      17,875    17,875
Maize                       W                  30         134        341         591         912     1,170      1,245      1,291       1,314       1,314      1,314
W                  -          41         131        381         390        540       540         540         540         540       540
I                 30          93         210        240         522       630        705         751        774         774        774
Groundnuts                  W                  75         645      1,937       3,476      5,584      7,620      7,964      8,150       8,317       8,317     8,317
W                  -         267         882      1,593       2,598      3,603     3,603       3,603       3,603      3,603      3,603
I                 75         378       1,055      1,883       2,986     4,017      4,361      4,547       4,714       '4,714     4,714
Cassava                     W                  35          95        200         310        420        440       440         440         440         440       440
Sweet Potatoes              W                  20          55        110         165        220        220       220         220         220         220       220
Leaves                 I                  15         40          90        145         200       220        220         220         220         220       220                     Z
Tubers                 W                 185        642       1,212      2,142       3,204      3,600     3,960       4,200       4,200      4,200      4,200
W                 120        408         720      1,200       1,680      1,680     1,680       1,680       1,680       1,680     1,680
I                 60         234        492         942       1,524     1,920      2,280      2,520       2,520       2,520      2,520
Fruit Trees                 W   =I                                                -         700      2,550     5,450       9,950      13,850      18,250    18,750
Crop Mix       2/           _                  10         143        447         774      1,262      1,722     1,722       1,722       1,722       1,722     1,722
W                   7        112         352        612       1,000      1,368     1,368       1,368       1,368       1,368     1,368
I                  3          41         95         162         262       354        354         354        354         354        354
W    With Project
W    Without Project
I    Incremental production
I/   Based on the assumptions on yields (Chapter 4) and the Annual crop development program in Annex 3
2/   Includes a mixture of crops such as sorghum, millet, beans, peas etc.
(November 13, 1980)



- 43-_ 
SIERRA LEONE                                                Annex 5
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICUL A  DEVELOPKNT PROJECT II
PROJECTED LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
Before         Year     Year    Year       Year      Year       Year      Year       Year       Year       Year 10 &
Development        1         2        3        4         5          6          7          8          9      Thereafter
Temne owned herd 1/
Uncontacted herd(nos.) 5,000            4,650    4,300   4,000    3,700    3,450         3,200      2,950      2,750     2,600       2,500
Contacted herd (nos.)    -                350       700   1,050    1,400    1,750        2,100      2,450     2,800      3,150       3,500
Offtake Rate(%)              8              8         8        8        9         9         10         10         11         11          12
Offtake Rate(Nos.)         400             28        56       84      126       158        210        245        308        346         420
c.d.w. per head (kg.)       80             80        80       80       90        90         95         95        100       100         105
Incremental offtake
weight(tons)              -                               .32      3.02      4.03       8.43     10.16       16.4      19.24        2N.1
Incremental value
offtake (Le) 2!                                           800    7,550   10,075    21,075    25,400    41,000    48,100           70,250
Fulah owned herd
Uncontacted herd
(nos.)               80,000         80,000   79,500  79,000   78,000   77,500    76,000    74,000    62,500    53,000             44,000
Contacted herd (nos.)       -             -         500   1,000    2,000    3,000        5,000      8,000    20,000    30,000       40,000
Offtake Rate(%)              8            -           8        8        S         8          8          8          9          9          10
Offtake Rate(Nos.)       6,400            -          40       80      160       240        400        640     1,800      2,700       4,000
c.d.w. per head (kg.)       80            -          80      8Q        80        80         85         85         85        90          90
Incremental offtake
weight(tons)              -             -                                     3.2        6.4       21.0      41.0       70.2       lZ9.b
Incremental value
offtake (Le) 2/          _              _                                   8,000    16,000    52,000   102,500   175,000    324,000
Mara Ranch
Breeding Stock
Sales (nos.)              -               1         2       6         9        10         11         11         11        11          11
Breeding Stock
Sales  (Le)               -             200      500   1,700    2,300    2,500        2,700      2,700      2,700      2,700       2,700
Incremental Meat
Sales (tons)              -             .32     5.86    6,47       8.53      9.07      9.99       9.99       9.99       9.99        9.99
Incremental Meat
Sales (Le)  /             -             800   14,650  16,175   21,325   22,675    24,975    24,975    24,975    24,975            24,975
Sheep and Goats
Uncontacted Herd (nos.)77,000          76,500   75,500  74,000   72,000   69,500    67,000    64,000    61,000    57,500            54,000
Contacted Herd (nos.)    -                500    1,500   3,000    5,000    7,500    10,000    13,000    16,000    19,500            23,000
Offtake Rate (%)             22            22        22       23       24        25         26         27         28         29          30
Offtake Rate (Nos.)    16,944             110       330     690    1,200    1,875        2,600      3,510      4,480     5,655       6,900
c.d.w. per head (kg.)        10            10        10       10       11        11         11         11         12         13          13
Incremental offtake
weight (tons)             -             -         -         .3      2.2      4.12        6.6      13.52     18.56      30.62        39.1
Incremental value
offtake (Le)  3/          -             -         -     1,200    8,800   16,480    26,440    54,080    74,240   122,480    156,400
Livestock Component
Incremental Sales
(tons)                    -             .32    5.86      7.09    13.75    20.42       31.42      54.67      85.95    130.05       206.79
Incremental Meat
Sales (Le)                -             800  14,650   18,175   37,675   57,230    88,450   156,455    242,715  371,055    575,625
Total Incremental           -           1,000  15,150   19,875   39,975   59,730    91,150   159,155    245,415  373,755    578,328
1/ Includes village cattle development units
2/ at Le 2,500/ton
3/ at Le 4,000/ton
September 9, 1980



SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
Crop Budgets Per Hiectare 1/
1980 Constant Leones
Swamp
---- Swamp Rice-----------                  ---------- Upland Rice -------         Groundnuts    -----Upland Groundnuts ------               '----------- Maitze ------------            Citrus
1   1990                                  1990                                                   1990                                        1990                 1990
Present           W           W           Present            W           W           W            Fresent           W            W           Present            W           W              W
Yield   tons/ha   2/                1.0           1.0          2.8             0.6            0.6         1.5         1,5             0.6            0.6          1.2            1.3             1.3         2.2           25.0
Price   Le/ton    3/             280.0          431.0        431.0          280.0           431.0       431.0       415.0           330.0          415.0       415.o           240.o          355.0        355.0          100.0
Gross Value of Production        280.0          431.0       1206.8           168.0          258.6       646.5       622.5           198.0          249.0       498.0           312.0           461.5       887.5        2500.0
Costs of Production   4/
Seed                           -              -          10.0             -               -         10.0        18.0              -              -         20.0              -               -          3.0             -
Fertilizers                     -             -          85.0             -               -         63.0        45.0              -              -         35.0                              -         72.0
Pesticidds                     -              -           5.0             -               -          5.0         5.0             -               -          5.0              -               -          5.0             -
Bags                         15.0           15.0         25.0           10.0            10.0        12.0        15.0           10.0            10.0        10.0             15             15          15.0         150.0   -
Tools                         5.0            5.0          5.0            5.0             5.0         5.0         5.0            5.0             5.0         5.0              5               5          5.0             -
Hired Labor   5/               -              -          15.0                             -           -           -               -              -           -               -               -           -
Interest                       -              -         20.0              -               -        15.0         17.0             -               -         15.0              -              -          15cC
TOTAL                        20.0           20.0        165.0           15.0            15.0       110.0       105.0          15.0             15.0        90.0             20              20        115.0             -
Net Value of Production          260.0          411.0       1041.8           153.0          243.6       536.5       517.5           183.0          234.0       408.0           292.0          441.5        666,0         2350.0
Family Labor Mandays              (150)         (150)        (270)          (100)           (100)       (150)       (175)           (125)          (125)        (185)          (160)           (160)       (190)          (170)
Cost of Family Labor
(at Le 1.50/manday)  6/         225.0         225.0        405.0           150.0          150.0       225.0        262.5          187.5           187.5       277.5          240.0           240.0        285.o         255.0
Net Profit (Loss) after
costing Family Labor              35.0          186.0        636.8            3.0            93.6       311.5       255.0            (4.5)          46.5       130.5            50.0           201.5       381.0        2095.0
Return per manday
of Family Labor                   1.7            2.7          3.9            1.5             2.4         3.6         3.0             1.5            1.9         2.2             1.8             2.8         3.5           13.8
1/   These crop budgets reflect annual production costs, developsents costs are included in the investment analysis in Working Paper Cl
2/   For discussion on yield developments see Chapter 4
3/   Prices are based on IBRD projections and existing local prices, details in W.P.C 10
4/   Assumptions on input requirements are in Working Paper Cl
5/  1t1re6 labor is costed at the average market wage rate of Le 1.50 per manday
6/   Assuming that the opportunity cost of family labor is equal to the market wage rate.
(Amended November 13, 1980)



SIERRA LEONE
NORTBMER: INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENPT PROJECT PHASE II
Farn Models
Constant 1980 Leones
Total Fasal1 jbor                      Net Return_per_Manday
Net Value of Production             Total           s l                         of Family Labor
Cropped                                     1990                                1990                                    ____
Area (ha)                Present         W        W         Present          W-        W             Present         W        W
A.   Swamp Rice                                                        1.0                    260.0         411.0    1041.8        150           150     270
Upland Cassava Tubers                                              .10                    20.0          20.0      50.0          5             5       6
Upland Cassava Leaves                                             0.05                    10.0          10.0      20.0          5             5        5
Upland Crop Mix                                                    .47                    47.0          47.0       59.0        47            47      47
1.62                  337.0         488.o    1170.0        207           207      334 /            1.6          2.3       3.5
B.   Swamp Rice                                                        1.0                    260.0         411.0    1041.8        150           150     270
Pnd Swamp Groundnuts                                                .25                     -             -       129.4        -             -        44
Maize                                                    .05                     -              -       38.6        -             -        10
Cassava Leaves                                           .15                   30.0          30.0       60.0        15            15       15
Crop Mix                                                 .05                    5.0           5.0        6.o         5             5        5
1.50                  295.0         446.o    1275.8        170           170      344              1.7          2.6       .3.7
C.   Upland Rice                                                       1.2                    183.6         292.3      643.8       120           120      180
Groundnuts                                                 0.55                  100.6         128.7      224.4        69            69      102
Tobacco                                                    0.13                  160.0          160.o     160.0        84             84      84
Maize                                                      0.05                    14,b         22. 1      33.3          8             8      10
Crop Mix                                                   0.47                    47.0         47.0       59.0
Cassava Tubers                                             0.12                   24.o          24.0       60.0
Citrus                                                     0.1                       -             -      235.0        -              -       17
2.62                  529.8         674.1     1415.5       346           346l/   393 -/             1.5          1.9       3.6
D.  Upland Rice                                                        1.2                    183.6         292.3      643.8       120           120      180
Groundnuts                                                 0.7                   128.1         163.8      285.6        87             87     129
Maize                                                      0.05                    i4,6          22.1      33.3          8             8      10
Crop Mix                                                   o.45                   45,o          45.o       56.o
Cassava Tubers                                             0.12                   24.0          24.0       60.0
Citrus                                                     0.1                       -             -      235.0        -              -       17
2.62                  395.3          547.2    131-3.7      280           280      436              1.4          2.0       3.0
W   -  With Project
W _ PWitthot Project
Assulptions on yields, inputs and prices are scemmarized on a crop basis in Annex 2 Table 1 details are in Working paper No. C1
Family Labor for production only, labor utilized in developaent is charged in earlier years
/ Inicludes 67 imandays in the"without project"situation and 100 mandays with project, for land preparation and bunding which is
attributable to all the cl'ops






07177)0   7770310  00041-u }Pe.rm,lA1 DE70177L7 3   3 T13^ - 4)7T4 E l
07.14>       1 20.1) 07.                F 42.Y;1                                                            ns
7700        -31 IYC ,. -                                                                          30   '  .  2-  ,  7.0  3 7J  3 570. -
111)2,771 7.'..> '4                                          7  ,,4        77L          >1=6          -         -             ---
Lo70 8e07r70    r   '~                  L         ..       l m.      n     4?t.'   1,271.7    ], 8            _ ',79.0      7,1b.0      e    . 2.0    220.07.        2 0,9             10.7    2     ,20.02,20.
7' 777   121         7-.t                                           o     v~e  C. G  >cl7  , 7,7   7iO.G     1. 2J.7    en   D.       o     5)70.         140.0         100.7          0t7.1         -
I1 A.r3, zw 14)1)                             1.           -, 7L 1,4         ,7'V7     >7.c        7,7   J    '  7,7d.        .911.7        3. 100.77,1,7G.7            3.04u o        sq,777,       r1 79.0
4.0'))   7707 n   .....     2' .:. ..               .     ,3..8          . 70.,    5.71.)       1,10,.i       -              _              -             _
1070  71, ,77>77.                       V7        0,7)             70          -73.1         71.7 
.... eOr_b6w otwUr-                        rtZ13         '0.             -          776) 34      174. 
77                               4 .' .0.7t -2  1. 40        0          ,1, D ->   lb707.0  2,40.7 0 ,5'0. 7  0,5SO.0        2,55 .0      7,550.0         550.0       2,550.7        0,510.0
3b1'    7     7707   4,                        3.          377            3.7           o.o         7.7         0.0           n.0           0.0            0.0           0.0          0.0             0.0
.lm71117tr7t,10r    z 777                      _            _'-  -         -           _            -        707.0         02.0c/          600.0        700.0         609.0         7077           6 '00.7
rr7 .1   7 .   .7                                              n -         D             -           -O. 7     70-.)         0, 17 0.70 0                              10.1           707.0         300.0
7777,77.                                       4.t         22.G           >            44>,        205.5       70.5         70bt .7         7,4           6.9. 86.9                  10.60 .c
De 7777 t0.7r  e Trm lreGI I/                              2n 0.         00.7         70.         5.2.        71,7         03.0            07.2          63.          03            4 t3.7          58.7
-e 111s1                                                                                                                               ~~~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~63 o19 1
^mrjlI-                                                                               41-   s       6,         6             ,6 q           . _             .-           .            3.7            07.'
-  -             -           .                                     -              -             .             -             07.~         ~~~ 2,7.0
'.27,,                  2, I.!.)-  2, 2    L '5 .- , ;415. ,    7,75.3    3, )477         3,7456.8     3,7106.0      4, 46.8       3,977.3         )17.7
770 11. rl''    7  77G 'D 0)7.) F               .e0 I     I (     li3. , 1l Dn,P) (162.:) 41,   3 d.7 00       1,001.7 1?3.2                  (30 .4)   (686.J)          (736.01    8 (,70.7)        (1, 2 9.7)
L0700,70707ente 1' 17777771                   -'1          77. 3>        947.7       377.0        1, ,')      -07.0         4719.0 43oo,o                010.0 440.7               4h2.o            42.,
77717777,777       7777  ,77)r e                7,o          07..          79t    5.0  _0,          -                         _ -            -                                        _ -
i1LAG  01   5                                  :.d           772,          4            15 n-8.0    7.7 )       W4o-          4)i.O          40 4.0        40.0          407.0        410.0           402.0
2-2n   .._ 3essol]                   275,0       370.5            m00        345.0         6 .0      365.0         36 0            368.0        365.0         365.0         365.0           365.0
:lh-i1     707    77rtli r  4/8             '7s.0          L7,4 C           1          7.0         7.7         0.0           7.0            0.0           0.7           0.0           .0              o 
i             90-L     .  7'               052 7, 0.0                  Y60.U         15O        055.0       197.0        007.0           005.7           5 295 0     077. o       22915 0  1      000 295
20>           . ,          )1, .7       10.1                   00-.         07.              0.            1.0           15.         75.             000
07073                                         77.D           07.n.         00,5       1'0.:         97,n       15u.7         110.0          270.0         770.0         100.0        2n.0            20
PMlm.  07721,1                                   7'5,0          73.,                       ' .1       380.7      '3=.0   8       205,0         055.0         7s.,7         695.0        075.).          895.0
-7       - 0 07 e,0    -} 777                    (L7.X.      (1704.7)         51.70)     (4- .0       (48d.o)    (407.0)       (43.0          (93.o)        (493.0)       (493.0)       (493,0         (433 01)
1't 00-0 7llls  (Dsf2e=t} rI.n 4077    sn,- 77  ( -u.1       174. 1         !J3. 0.1     1406.0)      (22.7)      73 .7       ('99.)          (013.03     1.079.        1,179.8d      1,430.7        0,021.7
4/       077,77'4 ie 7 7    i440 1 tr 23r 7.0   0)   1 to 77, 47 7 e., ' 7 7   pa-, 6.11 .
i^tt0 y'5r
7/   It prssw    rve  br   dt   picVlr 41 2er5,1  .-ar  ,i,1.  10  err2   Vi6
Terp pt-            P"ns   ar- li ~      fi a fo    e.irt I0  -etr snd 15 -e  -ns fio  -:ze  -   Nt 30  es.



SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTOPRAL DEVELOBRENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Economic Costs, Benefits and Rate of Return
Le '000    Constant 1930 Prices
Pyl           PY2           PY3            Py4            Fy5           Py6            Py7            Py8           PY9            PylO         Pyli-25
Development Costs                                                                                                     384.9
Project Management                                    7(393.         652.6          sis.5         968.8          572.6
Agronomly, Extension and Training                   1,393.8          652.6          632.2         968.857.---                                                                                              -
Commercial SErviension Bnd TrainiD388.7                              368.7          385.3         392.5          398.2
CLisercial Services                                   627.5          239.7          274.7         287.1          175.3
Livestoclc Services                                   767.o          382.5          382.5         348.1          2e6.5
Road Construction                                       4          1,546.8          661.8          68              1468
Monitoring and Evaluation                             110.4           50.7           71.i           62            71.6
Consultancy, Training and Research                    187.0           128.0          98.0           86.o          63.0
Subtotal  4,22.V  3,dg3.9     3',1.4        3,,47.8        1 ,913.9
Subtotal                                        142.3           is8.7           86.6         111.4           52.2
Physical Contingencies (5s)              1,388.2         1,106.7       1,017.0        1,047.1         953.0
Foreign Exchange Costs at O.E.R          2,980.1         2,915.9       2,091.0        2,412.1        1,018.1
Foreign Exchange Costs at S.E.R.         3,1405.8        3,332.5       2,389.7        2,756.7        1,163.5
Foreign Exchange Costs at S.E.R.           I                                                                                                          
Total Development Costs                        4,794.0 sj.z                  3,436.7       3,303-'        2,i16.5
Recurrent Costs
Roads Maintenance                                                                                                               100.0         100.o          100.0          100.0          100.           100.0
Project Management                                      -50.0                                                                                  50.0           50.0           50.0          5.0            50.0
Extension Services                                                                                                              350.0          350.0         350.0          350.0          350.0          350.0
Ccmmercial Services                                     -              -                                                       1300.0         300.0          300.0          300.0          300.0         300.0
Livestic-. Services                                                                                                             150.0          150.0         150.0          150.0          150.0          150.0
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                                                        50.0           5O            50.0           50.0           50.0           50.0
Subtotal                                           -                     -                                   _           1,0o0.o0      1,000.0        1,000.0        1,000.0        1,000.0       1,000.0
Incremental. Far  Production Costs
(including labor)                                      780.0        1,610.0       3,000.0        4,065.0       4,745.0        4, 90.Q        4,890.        1 4,890.o. 4,890.0            4,890.0        4.890
TOTAL INCREMdEiTAL COSTS                                  5,9)74.o       6,0449.2      6,406.7        7,868.8      6,861.5         5,890.0         5,d90.0        5,890.0        5,890.0 o5,d90.0
Tncremaental Benefits
Rice                                                   240.5          788.5       2,024.1        3,138.9       6,278.7        7,404.8        8,119.3       8,401.3        8,401.3        8,669.4       8,669.4
Groundnuts                                              26.8          1314.6        376.6          67282       1,22P.3        1,630.9        1,770.6       1,846.1        1,913.9        2,078.9        2,078.9
Maice                                                   11.2           314.6         78.1           89.3         206.2          248.9          278.5         296.6          305.7          314.2          3114.2
Cassava and leaves                                      13.7           45.7          98.6          177.2         272.1          329.1          373.5          14o3.0        403.0          403.0          1403.0
Citrus                                                   0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0          70.0          255.0          5145.0        995.0        1,385.0        1,650.0        1,875.0
TOTAL INCREKENTAL BENEF;TS                                  292.2        1,003.7       2,577.4        4,077-6       8,039.3        9,868.8       11,086.8      11,942.0       12,408.9       13,115.5       13,340.5
Economic Rate of Return of Net Benefit Stream                                                                                                                                                                   22%
5x



SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOIMENT PROJECT II
Economic Analysis: Internal Rate of Return, Sensitivity Analysis
NPV of Net
--------------- COST STREAMS ---------------           ------------------------ BENEFIT STREAMS ------------------                      IRR of Net              Tncremental
Project                      Farm                                                                                                   Incremental             Benefit Strews
Development   Recurrent   Production   Total           Rice   Groundnuts   Maize   Cassava   Citrus               Total               Benefit Stream        Discounted at 15%
..Le Million.
NPV of Appraisal Estimate (Le Million) i                    13.0            3.1          23.8        39.9       33.1         7.4        1.2       1.5        4.2            47.4                    20.9                      7.5
NPV of Switching Value (Le Million) i/                      20.5           10.7          31.4        47.4        25.5        0.2      -6.3      -6.0       -3.4             39.9
Percentage Change (AG to sV) 3/                           + 58         +  242          + 32        + 19       -22        -102       -622    -484          -180            -16
Grouped Sensitivity Analysis #/                                                                         K     - lo        - 10        - 15      - 15       - 25                                     16.7                     5.1
K     - 15       - 15       - 15       -          -                                        15.0                      0.0
+ 10       - 10       - 10       - 10      - 10          m                                      14.1                   ^ 1.2
+ 5         +   25         +  5                    -  5       -  5          10        10         10                                     16.7                      2.2
j    Net Present Value (NPV) of each variable at a discount rate of 15%
(the opportunity cost of capital - OCC)
7]   The NPV value (at 15%) of each variable tested separately (other variables held constant) at which the
NPV of the net benefit stream of the project discounted at the OCC is zero
i/   Percentage change that would be required in the appraisal estimate (AE) of a variable for it to
reach its switching value (SV)
T] The variables are allowed to vary simultaneously: K- held constant at appraisal estimate;                                                                                                                                                a
+  - % increase in appraisal estimate: -  - % decrease in appraisal estimate



- 49 -
ANNEX 10
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector and Subsector
Al   Recent Advances in Agronomic Research and Transfer of Technology
in Sierra Leone - Dr. I.C. Mahapatra - RRS             February 1980
A2   Vegetation and Land Use in Sierra Leone:  A Reconnaaissance
Survey                                                 1979
A3   Technical Report Mission on Land Tenure Policy Analysis for
the formulation of Policy for agrarian structures and Rural
Development FAO                                        May 1980
A4   Land Tenure System in Sierra Leone - Harry Turay    February 1980
A5   Work Oxen in Sierra Leone - P.H. Starkey               September 1979
A6   The Development of the NUC Farm - P.H. Starkey         July 1979
A7   Rural Penetration Roads USAID Second Annual Evaluation
A8   Rice Research for Self Sufficiency in Sierra Leone  1979
A9   UNDP Sierra Leone Rice Project Annual Report           March 1980
AIO  Crash Rice Program - Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry                                               January 1980
All  Institute of Public Administration and Management -
University of Sierra Leone                             1980/81
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B1   Preparation Report of Northern Integrated Agricultural
Development Project II FAO/World Bank Cooperatie Program -
Two Volumes                                            February 1980
B2   Work Program - IDA Technical Assistance Project        June 1980
B3   Situation Report - Livestock NIADP - Turay             May 1980
B4   Program for Livestock Component NIADP II               1980
B5   Sierra Leone - Economic Memorandum                     June 1979
B6   The Role of Feeder Roads in Promoting Rural Change
in Eastern Sierra Leone - Airey



- 50 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
C.   Selected Working Papers
Cl   Crop Development
C2   Credit and Commercial Services
C3   Civil Works
C4   Livestock
C5   Training
C6   Monitoring and Evaluation
C7   Procedures for Reporting Project Progress
C8   Marketing
C9   Accounting and Financial Arrangements
CIO Project Costs
Cli Economic Analysis



SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - 11
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
AND FORESTRY
PFRMANFNT SECRE1 AHY
PROJECTC  _
. l       _      _   _ ___                         _ S ~~~~~~~~~COORDINATOR_ 
AGRICULTURAL                                                                                                                                          Piarnirna EnaluapAnf and
RE SE ARCH I NSTIt UT E"I                                                                                                                               Mon iflin., S .vAes Unix
COMMlYTEE   t     PtIBLICITY UNIT                          l                                     _   __ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATIVE HEAD |
I                ~~~~IMPLEMENTATIONEAL                    NPNIN
l                                  _~~~ ~ ~~~                                                                              ~~. _ACU  'R_  
INSPECTINIVISIISION                                                        DSON                  AND ACCOUNTS                 OJECTS                  FIAlN NCIAL CONTROLLER       ECAT   E           S                   S      P
P,.jnsion -nd T,R.....&4                                                                     j    NORTHEHN SADVI                   INTERNOAL AUDIT            FIELD CONTROL UNIT
L-ni .nd Wale,                                                                                      NORTHERNIlAD                      8rfH  aslPast aa                                     GICLUA  
D-0lRmn r-                                                                                           PROJECT II
mnginaUng and                                                                                     MANAGEMENT UNIT
Mg;hahiz;tign~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                               COSTACCUTAN                     EVLUTO                      SSARICULDIIRAL ECONOMISTS_
.   I      I                             I                                      l                     l   |  ECt)N~~~~~~~~~                      ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OMISTS  L__
EXTENSION FREAINTNF AN       R NORTHROST                 S          LNBRTILAST   |-                                                                      DATA PRECESSING TFFICERS A
I   I   t   -l ~ ---WACCOUNTS STAFF  CLERKS, ETC-_
.   .  W ccouNTs AND 1 r   l W                    n                                                                  S            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASSISTANTS 
11To be-s.blikh.d
Wprl d -au-22DS3






-52-
SIERRA LEONE
NORThERN INTEGRAI ED AGRICULTURAL REVELOPMENT PROSECT  PRASE 11
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
mu  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
r7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  
FE.E '  * W; !"                                                        I
I~~~                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        I <1 r  lX
..~~~~~~~~~~E  ___    _ _. ..,. ....
1 . k | 4150~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-          L-Et |        
xLL  ;   ,-0]1 1,, ! E   I tk ,,L, Lt,0 t9. | 01 I>-t -tL ls] |   L$L  n   t;   f  |~~~~~I 
LXlSl~~~i                                                                          I  E  1H                
_~~~~~~ ~ ~ _                                                  -RO tU






I BRD 15255
1?                                                                                               p                                            SEPTEMBER 1980
G    U    I N    E    A
SIERRA LEONE
NORTHERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
'r ~~~~~ ~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
seruns  <,H   %,~~~~~~~~~~~;;)~~~~~"N ~~Praiect Area
--Boundary of Phases I andl1:
- - Baundary between Phase I and Phase U
9,v  ,   y                                    ~~~~~~~~~K.b.l                                  Roads
-,           ,                              ---------  ~~~~~~~~~Ta be Recanstrscted ta Sealed Standard
ternsru'~~~~&  Knikuken ~~~-r~~  /  fr  ,,p ~~Main Roads
Lure                   ,                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main  Roads Sealed
Kumulu  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  V                                           .......Class IV A and IV1 Roads Constructed under Phase I (at June 1980)
"'~~~~~ ~~~, ~~~~ujjtr"1?>~      ~         ~          ~         ~        ~ ~~~~---- rcm,enedClssIVA'ontrctoWorks                                          PhseI
(AL   .*  .y~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,~~~~,                                                - ~~~~     Other Roads (Condrtion Varies)
/  'P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Seed urserres
<)rtirunrre  '               /                           /                              C     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lruestockr Eutension Centers
(/vv,vd   ,   , by ,HIP 2                         ''                          U~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Lisestock Trainring Center
"P  A~~~~~~'r'~~~~r'E~~~~ ~~~  '                                                       B~~~   Ranch
r-  )               Suuutrr  ,~~~~~     Kunreb                                                                       F arm  Servrce Centers
85'AMcrubor   A   Eenuer'rou  4  5                               1                 A~~~~~~~~~Z' 4    To be Constructed under Phase TT (Morn Centers, Sub-Centers)
(  ~~~~   A. ~~~~~~   ,                         I                    Bvduuu ~~~~~~~~~~~~A   A   Already Constructed under Phase I (Morn Centers, Sub-Centers)
S  \Sn>   ~~~~~~~~~'                     ,r                                   ----ci  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Risers
... International Boundarres
Mu5uberi~      t8,q  Pr,rj    0        R                                              f
MA~~~~~~~nnr
I~~~~~~~~l~-1 -                                    "I-11, I -- ,-i
Tr,rdpvuv-hv b d- r,Wnrn,,rvvfu'r,vv5Or--unr,vr
KILOMEPTusERSu                I           ~ 2I~  0             5
B  y4-Yemrn  ~~~~~~~~~~~~u'                                                                            $VNEAAr\e~~~~~~~~~A 
'CPA Muv%uor    2  t<'A   MururBs                 /          MurrMILESuelbu2(0MAL
9  9/c'P             ~~'Mu~~elr   MuRprr 2






g<z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ... S2'13 rz 
. . . . . .. . . .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........



