Report No. PID7360
PID7360.TXT
Project Name                     Indonesia-Second Policy Reform Support (@)
Loan (PRSL II)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Structural Adjustment Lending
Project ID                       IDLL60258
Borrower                         The Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency              Coordinating Ministry for the Economy, Finance
and Industry
Taman Suropati No. 2
Jakarta, Indonesia
Telephone: 62 21 3843655;
Facsimile: 62 21 334779
Date this PID prepared           May 3, 1999
Appraisal date                   February 21, 1999
Projected Board date             May 18, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      This proposed operation (PRSL II) is the Bank's second adjustment loan
in support of Indonesia's ongoing policy reform program. It will deepen and
strengthen the program of economic and institutional reform already underway;
focusing on decisive steps to restructure banks and corporations, and actions
to improve governance, transparency and efficiency. The PRSL II is one of two
loans that have been prepared concurrently to provide an integrated package of
fast-disbursing support for Indonesia over the coming months. The other one
is the Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan to safeguard safety net and social
programs. The Bank's earlier support for Indonesia's reform program was a $1
billion fast disbursing loan approved by the Board on July 2, 1998 (PRSL I),
an $20 million Bank Restructuring Adjustment TA Loan approved on December 3,
1997, and an $31.5 million Corporate Restructuring TA Loan approved on March
25, 1999.
2.      Project Rationale.   This loan is an integral part of the overall package
of external assistance for Indonesia agreed upon by the IMF, the World Bank,
the ADB, and bilateral donors at the July CGI meetings. Indonesia needs this
external support to help finance an agreed social safety net and fiscal
stimulus package to shield the poor, help reverse the contraction of domestic
demand, stabilize the economy and revive growth. Most of the increased
government expenditures are on bank restructuring and programs aimed at
mitigating the social costs of the crisis, including (a) subsidies to shield
the poor and protect the social fabric, (b) special initiatives to sustain
education and health services to the poor, and (c) income support programs of
labor intensive public works. Without this financing support, Indonesia would
not be able to sustain these social expenditures and bear the costs of bank
restructuring without risking higher inflation.
Loan Objectives



3.      The objective of this proposed loan is to consolidate economic
stabilization, achieve renewed poverty-reducing growth, and protect human and
physical assets in the interim.
Loan Description
4.      The proposed loan will provide balance of payments assistance to the
Republic of Indonesia to support continued implementation of policy reforms in
the following areas:
Macroeconomic management (fiscal and monetary policies) to consolidate nascent
stabilization.
Banking and corporate restructuring to deal with bad loans, reestablish credit
lines, get potentially productive assets back to work, and establish effective
financial intermediation. For banking, this involves formally empowering
Indonesia Bank Restructuring Agency (IBRA), concluding the satisfactory
resolution of a substantial number of banks using a transparent and consistent
process, transferring all loan assets from the frozen banks and the non-
performing loans from all recapitalised banks to IBRA's Asset Management Unit
(AMU), concluding the resolution plan for the four state banks integrated
under Bank Mandiri, and developing restructuring plans for the other state
banks. For corporate restructuring, this includes removing unnecessary
impediments to restructuring; streamlining investment approval procedures,
establishing a one-stop facilitation system for regulatory approvals relating
to restructuring, and sustaining the Jakarta Initiative.
Actions to improve governance and to increase the transparency and efficiency
of public and private sector activities. Some specific examples relating to
public sector activities are; initiating audits of key public enterprises; new
anti-corruption, fiscal decentralization and administrative decentralization
laws; drafts of new power and telecoms sector laws; implementing an energy
sector reform program; and continued progress with the privatization of state-
owned enterprises. Reforms affecting private sector firms include;
establishing an effective monopoly and unhealthy competition law; further
forest sector policy changes to strengthen the efficiency and sustainability
of resource use; further deregulation; and reductions in import tariffs and
export taxes.. Environmental management has also been strengthened through the
drafting and issuance of key implementing regulations for the Environmental
Law, commitment to a transparent rules-based procedure for any future
conversion of forest land to other uses; and the establishment of a framework
for performance bonds for forestry concessions.
5.      The Government of Indonesia has designed this program of reforms with
close support from the World Bank, IMF and ADB. Actions to shield the poor
and sustain investments in human resources are supported by the parallel
Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan (SSNAL).
Financing
6.      The proposed loan amount is US$500 million and a further $100 million is
expected in co-financing from the EXIM bank of Japan. The proposed loan will
be a single tranche operation. It will be a fixed rate single currency loan
(SCL) in US dollars, with standard amortization terms, grace period and
interest rate for fixed-rate US dollar SCLs. Funds will be disbursed against
any import expenditure except those normally excluded from adjustment loans.
-2 -



Implementation
7.      Overall responsibility for Indonesia's reform program rests with the
Economic Resilience Council, which is chaired by the President and comprised
of senior advisors, key economic Ministers and private sector representatives.
Day-to-day monitoring and implementation is the responsibility of the
Secretary General of this Council, the Minister for Planning.
Risks
8.      The benefits that accrue from this operation would be the same as those
for Indonesia's policy reform program as a whole - economic stabilization and
then recovery and renewed poverty- reducing growth. The financial resources
provided under this loan will help Indonesia avoid an excessive transitional
decline in consumption and investment (including investments in human
resources). The fiscal stimulus provided by a temporarily large deficit will
help sustain aggregate demand.
9.      There are five major risks:
Uncertainty associated with political transition.
The possibility of paralysis on reform as political and campaign pressures
increase.
Continued fragility of the banking system and pressure for rising government
expenditures possibly undermining the commitment to prudent fiscal management.
The possibility of social unrest due to rising unemployment, increasing prices
and falling real incomes.
Limitations in administrative capacity, coupled with opposition from vested
interests.
10.     The Bank cannot fully insulate this operation from these risks.    But
steps have been taken to reduce these risks. First, the Bank has engaged in
an extensive consultative process with civil society in an effort to ensure
that there is substantial public support and commitment to special actions
prior to this operation being finalized. Second, the possibility of
government paralysis on reforms is being reduced by having a clear agreed
program of actions in advance and by having key reforms implemented prior to
Board presentation. As many of the actions are in reality limited to
important first steps (e.g. closing banks, nationalizing banks, and
designating selected banks as eligible for recapitalization; establishing the
Jakarta Initiative; enacting anti corruption legislation; and enacting a
competition law), though, the risk remains that these reforms may not be
adequately implemented over time. Third, the effective implementation of
social programs will be critical in containing the risk of social unrest. The
Bank's proposed parallel Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan (SSNAL) to
Indonesia is designed to support this effort. Fourth, the risk of inadequate
administrative capacity is being mitigated through the provision of extensive
technical assistance and by basing the loan on actions already implemented,
rather than actions promised. Nevertheless, political uncertainties remain
paramount in determining the magnitude of these risks. With open elections
scheduled for June 7, 1999, it is unclear which political coalition will
emerge to form the country's new leadership. The credibility of the next
government will depend on the public's perception of fairness in the election
process.
-3-



Environmental Aspects
11.     In accordance with the Bank's environmental policies (OP4.01) structural
adjustment operations are exempt from environmental assessments. However, the
program of policy reforms supported by this operation does include strategic
reforms to strengthen environmental sustainability.
Program Objective Categories
12.     The proposed loan contributes to financial institutions, economic
management, private sector development, natural resources management, poverty
reduction, and environmentally sustainable development.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 7, 1999.
- 4 -



