Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20550
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
(Loan No. 4470-IND)
July 26, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 26, 2000)
Currency Unit   =    Rupiah
I Rupiah        US$ 0.00011
US$1.00    =    9105
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
AMU    -   Asset Management Unit of IBRA
BAPEPAM       -   Securities and Exchange Commission
BAPPENAS    -   National Development Planning Agency
BI   -   Bank Indonesia
BKPM      -   Capital Investment Coordinating Board
BULOG    -   National Logistic Affairs Agency
CAR    -   Capital Adequacy Ratio
DFI   -   Direct Foreign Investment
FSAC    -   Financial Sector Action Committee
GOI   -   Government of Indonesia
IBRA    -   Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC    -   International Finance Corporation
IMF    -   International Monetary Fund
INDRA    -   Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency
LOI   -   Letter of Intent
MESOE    -   Ministry for the Empowerment of State-owned Enterprises
MFEC    -   Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops
MOF    -   Ministry of Finance
MOIT    -   Ministry of Industry and Trade
NGO    -   Non-Government Organization
Pertamina    -   National Petroleum Company
PLN    -   National Electric Company
PRSL    -   Policy Reform Support Loan
SCL    -   Single Currency Loan
SME    -   Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE    -   State-owned Enterprise
TOR    -   Terms of Reference
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
WB    -   World Bank
FISCAL YEAR: April 1 - March 31
Vice President                              :     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director                            :     Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Director                             :     Homi Kharas, EASPR
Team Leaders at ICR                         :     Lloyd Mckay (field-EACIF) and
Sudarshan Gooptu (HQ-EASPR)
ICR Primary Author                          :     Thang-Long Ton, EASPR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
(Loan No. 4470-IND)
CONTENTS
Preface
1.    Project Data ...........................................1
2.    Principal Performance Ratings ...........................................1
3.    Assessment of Development Objectives and Design,
and of Quality at Entry ..........................................2
4.    Achievement of Objectives and Outputs ..........................................3
5.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ......................... 10
6.    Sustainability ..........................................                   11
7.    Bank and Borrower Performance .........................................     12
8.    Lessons Learned ......................................... 15
9.    Partners Comments ......................................... 16
10.  Additional Information .........................................            23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators .24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing .25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits .26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs .27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components 28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance .29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
(Loan No. 4470-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Policy
Reform Support Loan (PSRL) to the Republic of Indonesia. This Loan (No. 4470-IND),
in the amount of US$500 million, was approved by the Board on May 20, 1999, signed
on May 28, 1999, and made effective on June 18, 1999. The single tranche, released
upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed on June 18, 1999. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Thang-Long Ton (Economist, EASPR) and reviewed by
Mr. Sudarshan Gooptu (Senior Country Economist, EASPR), Mr. Lloyd McKay
(Principal Economist, EACIF), Mr. Vikram Nehru (Lead Economist, EACIF), and Mr.
Homi Kharas (Sector Director, EASPR).
Preparation of this ICR was started in March 2000. It is based on material in the
project files in Washington and in the Country Office. The ICR also benefited from the
comments from the Borrower. The report was also reviewed by Japan Bank for
International Cooperation (JBIC) which cofinanced this loan. There was no separate
mission for the ICR, but field-based staff provided comments and inputs. The Borrower
commented on the ICR but did not prepare a separate evaluation. It is attached to the
report.






Project ID: P060258                                        Project Name: PRSL II
Team Leader: Lloyd E. Mckay                               | TL Unit: EACIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: July 26, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PRSL II                                        L/C/TFNumber: 44700
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: ME - Economic Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/20/98                                 Effective: 06/18/99           06/18/99
Appraisal:  02/21/99                                  MTR:
Approval:  05/20/99                                 Closing: 10/29/99            12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA / Financial and Economic Resilience Council
Other Partners: Japanese Export-Import Bank (JEXIM)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                 Mark Baird
Sector Manager:      Homi Kharas                                Tamar Manuelyan Atinc
Team Leader at ICR:   Lloyd Mckay (field) and                   Not applicable
Sudarshan Gooptu (HQ)
ICR Primary Author:   Thang-Long Ton
2. Principal, Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
This Loan was an integral part of the overall crisis-response package of external assistance that was
agreed upon by the IMF, the World Bank, the ADB, and bilateral donors at the July 1998 meeting of the
Consultative Group for Indonesia (CGI). It aimed at deepening the banking and structural reforms that
were initiated under the Bank's previous $1 billion fast-disbursing Policy Reform Support Loan (PRSL)
that was approved by the Bank's Board in July 1998. A companion $600 million Social Safety Net
Adjustment Loan (SSNAL) from the Bank, was also approved by the Bank's Board on the same day as
PRSL II, which was geared at improving the effectiveness of social safety nets in Indonesia through better
monitoring and targeting of these programs to ensure that their benefits reached the poor.
PRSL II focused on three pillars of Indonesia's recovery effort:
*   maintaining macroeconomic stability;
*   bank and corporate restructuring to get productive assets back to work; and
*   improvements in governance and transparency to help rebuild confidence and restart sustained growth.
The proceeds of the loan went towards expenditures on bank restructuring, and programs to mitigate the
social costs of the crisis, including (i) subsidies to shield the poor and protect the social fabric; (ii) special
initiatives to sustain education and health services to the poor; and (iii) income support programs of labor
intensive public works. Without this support, it was feared that Indonesia would not be able to meet its
external financing needs of the budget, sustain these social expenditures and bear the costs of bank
restructuring without risking hyperinflation.
At the time when this lending operation was being prepared there was a situation of growing political
uncertainty, a deepening of the impact of the crisis on people's lives and the economy was by no means
back on track Under these circumstances, finding the right balance between supporting policy reforms and
meeting critical financing needs was a difficult challenge. In this endeavor, the key actions for effectiveness
of this loan were deemed to be the minimum set of conditions within a wider overall program of structural
reforms (as detailed in the Policy Matrix accompanying the Government's Letter of Development Policy)
that were needed to maintain the momentum of institutional change towards improved governance and
transparency as well as financial and corporate restructuring efforts in Indonesia. Clearly, it is a full
agenda that will take years to complete.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to the above-mentioned objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
In accordance with the three pillars mentioned in 3.1 above, the key policy and institutional changes
supported through PRSL II were the following:
Maintaining Macroeconomic stability
* Realignment of public expenditures towards poverty-alleviating programs;
Bank and corporate restructuring
* Empowering the Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency (IBRA);
* Progress with resolving banking problems by closing 38 private banks, nationalizing 7 banks
and identifying 9 banks for recapitalization;
* Transferring loss loans to IBRA's Asset Management Unit;
Improving governance and transparencv
* Parliamentary approval of the first of the new anti-corruption laws, providing for an independent
-2-



body to investigate alleged corruption involving public officials;
*   Parliamentary approval of fiscal and administrative decentralization legislation;
*   Enactment of law to make the abuse of market power an offense; and
*   Forestry policy reforms.
These specific measures were an integral part of a more comprehensive structural reform agenda that
entails: aggressive privatization to improve competitiveness and more efficient service delivery; trade and
marketing reforms; investment, corporate govemance and competition policy measures; energy sector
reform and strengthening environmental management over the medium term. A reform agenda that is also
supported by the IMF LOI process, the Asian Development Bank, the United Nations System and
Indonesia's official bilateral development partners (including Japan, which co-financed PRSL II). See
attached Matrix of Policy Actions (Annex 7).
3.4 Revised Components:
No revisions were made since this was a single tranche operation that was fully disbursed upon
effectiveness.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The assessment of the PRSL II is satisfactory overall by the ICR. The project did contribute effectively
towards stopping the hemorrhage of the Indonesian economy that was beset under the crisis with run-away
exchange rate, large capital outflows, and dire threat of social breakdown. Concurrently, the PRSL II
proceeded to set the firm foundations for economic recovery by instituting measures designed to restore and
restructure the country's banking and corporate sectors while providing a framework for the improvement
in governance and transparency to help rebuild the confidence in the society and nurture sustainable
growth. Key measures have since been implemented by the government. Other actions are being
implemented, some although slowly, under the overall umbrella of the structural reform program under the
auspices of the Asian Development Bank, the IMF and the World Bankl The actions undertaken to date
remain consistent with this program and relevant at the time of the preparation of this ICR. This
powerfully attests to the project's quality at entry and the appropriateness of the measures designed at the
beginning of the project to address effectively both the immediate needs from the crisis and the
medium-term structural reform agenda of the Indonesian Government.
The PRSL II is consistent with the CAS's paramount objective to reinforce the measures to lessen adverse
impact of the economic crisis on the most vulnerable sections of the population. This was one in a series of
Bank's lending activities to assist the Government in the long road toward restoring economic stability.
Major risks to the operation were accurately highlighted as the country faced the political uncertainty and
political transition during the preparation, appraisal and the implementation of the program. The Bank also
sought and established an active dialogue and consultations with the civil society during the preparation of
PRSL II to explain the reform program and receive feedback from business groups, labor representatives,
research institutions, and NGOs. Contact with emerging political groups on the reform program in general
and the Bank's assistance in particular was also established, necessitated by the changing political
landscape, thus adding another positive feature in the quality at entry of the project. (A summary of these
activities appears in Box 5 in the Project Appraisal Document for PRSL II.)
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
One of the main objectives of this loan--to maintain macroeconomic stability in the face of the crisis--was
- 3 -



achieved. All macroeconomic indicators have shown remarkable stability since the last quarter of 1999 to
date. By first quarter-end of 2000, inflation has been virtually eliminated, the Rupiah has traded within a
narrow range, and the swap premium and domestic interest rates have fallen to pre-crisis levels. While
continued strict monetary management has underpinned this macroeconomic stability, significant excess
capacity in the economy has helped. However, the country's economic recovery remains fragile and
domestic demand and investment depressed. After expanding 5.8 percent (year-on-year) in the last quarter
of 1999, the GDP grew at 3.2 percent (in real terms) during the first quarter of 2000. This is mainly led by
increases in private consumption and export performance. Export earnings improved with total exports
sharply higher during the first four months of 2000--higher than the previous year as well as the years
preceding the crisis. Though the increase in oil prices has helped, there has been a rebound in non-oil
exports (up 28 percent compared to last year and 19 percent higher than in the same quarter last year).
Imports have recovered somewhat from their 1999 lows but remain below pre-crisis levels. Bank and
corporate restructuring to address fundamental problems of debt and non-performing loans has been slow.
Political uncertainties remained and social apprehension continued to adversely affect and even undermine
public confidence.
On the fiscal side, the fiscal deficit was 1.5 percent of GDP for FYI 999/2000 (much lower than the IMF
program target of 3.8 percent). This is partly due to improved revenue performance with high tax receipts
from interest income and higher oil prices. The FY2000 budget (for the nine-month period between
April-December) has been prepared in consultation with the IMF and the World Bank and was approved by
Parliament on January 20, 2000. Public expenditures are dominated by debt service payments, especially
on the domestic debt that has had to be issued from bank restructuring. Further reforms to maintain fiscal
sustainability of public expenditures over the medium term are underway. These include: rationalizing
policies governing tax holidays and free trade zones to avoid economic distortions and reduce abuse and
evasion; phasing out unnecessary tax exemptions; improving tax administration; eliminating uneconomical
spending.
Bank and corporate restructuring continues to be the critical area that needs to be addressed in order to
rebuild an efficiency banking sector and get the potentially productive assets back to work. The actions
instituted under the reform program that PRSL II supported, along with the IMF and ADB, are
contributing towards:
* instilling depositor and creditor confidence,
v improving governance and bank supervision,
* establishing an institutional framework and program for bank restructuring,
* strengthening bankruptcy and restructuring provisions,
* facilitate corporate restructuring,
* ensure the eventual resumption of credit flows to viable firms, and
*   improve corporate governance.
The task of speeding up the implementation of these measures is continuing. Section 4.2 outlines the
actions that have been undertaken in this endeavor under PRSL II.
-4 -



Table 1. Selected Key Economic Indicators
1997/98      1998/99      L9-9-91o     200010
Actual                   Projected
Growth rates (%):
Real GDP Growth                                        2.1        -14.1          3.3          3.0
Exports (fob)                                         13.2        -13.9         10.1         10.0
Imports (cif)                                         -3.7        -28.1          0.0         18.0
Inflation (CPI) (annual average)                      12.2         64.8          8.5          4.0
Share in GDP (%)
Investment                                            28.3         11.7         13.5         15.3
Government deficit (-)/GDP                            -0.4         -3.4         -1.5          -4.8
Current account balance                               -1.2          4.5          4.1          3.2
Gross official reserves (month-imports)                3.6          7.6          8.9          9.3
Source: World Bank and Government of Indonesia, June 2000.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Table 2 summarizes the key actions that were deemed under PRSL II to be the critical minimum set to
demonstrate the government's commitment to support the reform effort and, at the same time, for the Bank
to consider satisfactory to allow for project effectiveness. The table also shows that all these conditions of
effectiveness have not been reversed to date, despite the significant political and economic uncertainties that
have prevailed since the crisis.
Banking reforms and corporate restructuring
The actions undertaken in the banking sector reform included the effective empowerment of the Indonesian
Bank Restructuring Agency and its Asset Management Unit. These agencies have been in full operation
according to their mandate since 1999. The Government continued to normalize the banking system
including bank closures, nationalization, and recapitalization using a transparent, consistent, and
internationally acceptable standards of practice.
The Jakarta Initiative Task Force (JITF) was set up and made operational to facilitate voluntary corporate
and corporate debt restructuring in Indonesia. Actions were also undertaken to facilitate corporate
restructuring by insuring tax neutrality for mergers and removing restrictions on debt-equity conversions.
- 5 -



A one-stop regulatory facilitation group was also established.
Governance, Transparency, and Efficiency.
A series of laws and regulations were presented to, approved, and enacted by the Parliament covering
issues on anti-corruption, fiscal decentralization, anti-monopoly practices, and environmental management
as part of the Government's commitment to improve govemance and transparency in public resources
management. A master plan for the reform of SOEs, including initial actions and an implementation
agenda, was complete and published, as part of the move toward better efficiency use of public resources.
Efficient public management of resources also covered government actions in the establishment of a
framework for performance bonding for forestry concessionaires, review of the forestry royalty rate, export
tax reduction in log and saw timber. This has resulted in better forest use management and thereby
environmental management. Further efforts in this area have been undertaken in forestry resources
stewardship in order to generate maximum economic rents and benefits for the country while protecting and
conserving the bio-diversity and ecological services of the forests. In addition, within the environment
context, the Government took care to establish implementation regulations for the Enviromnental Law to
deal with hazardous waste management and water and air pollution control. Through other measures and
administrative steps, the Government also worked toward strengthening the overall environmental
management, as detailed in the Letter of Development Policy.
Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness
(taken from Schedule 3 of the PRSL Il Loan Agreement)
Program of Actions Taken by the Borrower                              Status at the
ICR
A. Maintainin2 an appropriate macro-economic volicy framework
1.   An appropriate macro-economic policy framework, consistent with the  No reversal
objectives of the Program, as determined on the basis of indicators agreed to by
the Borrower and the Bank, has been maintained.
2.   The Fiscal Year 1999/2000 fiscal budget has been approved by  No reversal
Parliament, with development expenditure levels and sectoral allocations
acceptable to the Bank.  The Borrower has established social safety net
expenditure allocations (by program) within the framework of said budget,
acceptable to the Bank.
B. Reforming the banking sector and facilitating corporate and debt
restructuring
1.    The Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency (IBRA) has been provided  No reversal
with
adequate financial resources and legal powers to carry out its mandate to
restructure
and/or resolve illiquid and insolvent banks.
-6 -



2.   The Borrower has taken the following actions with respect to private  No reversal
banks, excluding those banks that the Borrower formally took decisions to close
in April and in August 1998 (the "frozen" banks): thirty-eight banks have been
closed, seven banks nationalized, and nine banks have been identified as eligible
for recapitalization, in each case using a transparent, consistent and otherwise
internationally acceptable standards of practice.
3.   IBRA has assumed management control of the ten "frozen" banks and  No reversal
these banks are in the process of being liquidated. All "frozen" banks whose
shares are publicly traded have been de-listed. Sales of assets other than loans
commenced in December 1998 and legal title of all loans of the frozen banks has
been transferred to the Asset Management Unit (AMU) of IBRA.
4.   Clear ownership of, and governance procedures for, the state banks have  No reversal
been established. A resolution plan for four state banks to integrate under Bank
Mandiri has been adopted and the process of establishing a centralized credit
risk unit in Bank Mandiri has commenced.
5.   Legal title to "Category 5" loans, with a face value in excess of 5 billion   No reversal
rupiah from the 7 state banks, has been transferred to the AMU.
6.   The Jakarta Initiative Task Force (JITF) has been established.      No reversal
7.   A one-stop mechanism to facilitate approvals for corporate restructuring   No reversal
has been established.
8.   Restrictions on debt-equity conversions have been removed and tax  No reversal
neutrality for mergers has been provided to facilitate corporate restructuring.
C.   Improvin2 governance and increasing transparency and efficiency
1.   A draft Law about the Eradication of Corruption Criminal Acts, which   No reversal
provides, inter alia, for increased penalties in the event of convictions for
criminal acts of corruption, and a draft Law regarding State Administrators who
are free from Corruption, Collusion and Nepotism, which provides, inter alia,
for the establishment of a permanent body for investigating alleged corruption
involving public officials and the judiciary, have been submitted to Parliament.
2.   Drafts acceptable to the Bank for the proposed Law regarding Fiscal  No reversal
Equalization between the Central Government and Regional Governments and
the proposed Law regarding Regional Administration have been submitted to
Parliament.
3.   A master plan for the reform  of state-owned enterprises has been  No reversal
published and disseminated.
4.   A draft Oil and Gas Law, acceptable to the Bank, has been submitted to   No reversal
Parliament.
-7 -



5.   Export taxes on logs, sawn timber and minerals have been reduced to a  No reversal
maximum of 20 percent.
6.   Implementing regulations, acceptable to the Bank, for concession  No reversal
management and operations in permanent production forest, have been
circulated for stakeholder comments; and the transparent reporting of
independent forest operation inspection teams has been mandated in concession
areas.
7.   The Monopoly Practices and Unhealthy Competition Law has been  No reversal
enacted.
8.   Implementing rules, acceptable to the Bank, under the Environmental  No reversal
Management Law of 1997 for hazardous waste management and marine
pollution, have been issued.
Within the framework of improving governance, transparency and efficiency, the Government has also
implemented the following activities in the area of environmental sustainability, within which the forestry
resource management is an important component.
Table 3. Actions on Environment Management for the PRSL II
Activity                                     Status
General Environmental Management
Two of the implementation regulations for the Environmental Management Law
(UU 12/1997):
*    Hazardous Wastes Management (PP18/1999)                               Issued
*    Marine Pollution Control (PP19/1999).                                 Issued
Establishment of an Inter-Agency Committee at the Ministerial level to develop  Completed
a short term action plan for reducing air pollution from petroleum fuels and
oversee implementation of the plan.
Forestry Sector Reform
Forestry regulation (PP6 of 1999)                                    Signed by the
This regulation authorizes the transfer of forestry concessions by sale and  President on
eliminates the requirement that concessions can only be awarded to those who  January 27, 1999
own or commit to develop a wood-processing facility. It also lengthens the
concession period and establishes a framework for forest concession
performance bonds to act as major new instruments of compliance with
concession management regulations.
-8 -



Mapping the remaining natural forest, using 1996 or later imagery, and  Being implemented
classifying it into pernanent production, protection and conservation categories
Strong measures to identify community groupings, living in and around forest    To be addressed in
areas, who have legitimate cause to claim some share of the benefits of forest    the National Forest
use and management:                                                   Program (below)
A consultative group has been established as a means of obtaining public  Development of a
recommendations for solving problems in forestry, including social forestry and   National Forest
broad community participation                                         Program in
consultation with
stakeholders has
been initiated by the
Ministry of Forestry
and Estate Crops
Reduce land conversion targets to enviromnentally sustainable level.      no progress
Authorize a performance bonding system for concessions                 Regulation issued
authorizing system
Replace quantitative export controls on crude and processed palm oil, olein and  on schedule
stearin with an export tax of 40% or less, and hold regular reviews with an
objective of reducing this in stages to reach 10% by 12/31/99
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The PRSL II has supported the building of a firm institutional foundation for a sustained recovery through
enhanced transparency, improvements in governance and anti-corruption. The Government demonstrated
its commitment to build a sound institutional framework for good governance by implementing the
following important actions: (i) A new and improved Bankruptcy Law is aimed at providing a credible
threat for out-of-court settlements, while the establishment of the Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency
(INDRA) under the Frankfurt Agreement with private creditors will protect debtors and creditors against
foreign exchange risk. (ii) The first new anti corruption law -- the Law regarding State Administration who
are free from Corruption, Collusion, and Nepotism - was approved by the Parliament. This law requires
senior public officials to be able to explain changes in wealth during their time in office and includes
provisions for the establishment of a permanent body to investigate corruption involving public officials
and judges. Clear and practical provisions in the law also address the disclosure of wealth and potential
conflict of interest by public officials. (iii) The Parliament also approved fiscal and administrative
decentralization laws. (iv) An inter-ministerial team is preparing a new Construction Industry Law to
strengthen the national requirements for registration, qualification and operation of contractors, suppliers
and consultants in both public and private sector construction activities. (v) A different inter-ministerial
team is redrafting procurement regulations to tighten procedures for the public sector contracting and
-9-



improving the transparency of procurement procedures, and (vi) the Parliament has enacted the Monopoly
Practices and Unhealthy Competition Law that focuses on market behavior and envisages the creation of an
independent agency to implement and enforce this law. The law applies to all enterprises, public as well as
private.
Following the successful implementation of recommendations from a joint Government-Bank Public
Expenditure Review in the budget in July 1998, a second Public Expenditure Review -- Indonesia: Public
Spending in a Time of Change, April 2000 -- was completed and published. It focused on public
expenditure processes and on the strategic priorities for restoring sound public finances. In this context,
international auditors were appointed by the Ministry of Finance to conduct special audits for Pertamina,
PLN, BULOG and the Reforestation Fund. The Ministry is expected to follow up on findings and
recommendation of these special audits. The Government has also effectively empowered the IBRA and its
AMfU and these agencies have been in full operation according to their mandate since 1999.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
By the time PRSL n was prepared, Indonesia was still going through a critical period dominated by
political concerns about transition, the uncertain promise of a new era of democracy and the uncertain
prospects of a democratically elected coalition government. Social tension and threat of societal breakdown
were never far from the surface of the country's political life as the democratic wind was blowing through
the political landscape, accentuated by continuing sluggish post-crisis growth, increased unemployment,
and still declining real incomes. At the same time, recent violence and an uncertain economy had kept
foreign investors and domestic entrepreneurs away, exacerbating the critical situation facing Indonesia.
After the dampened export response that immediately followed loan effectiveness, the external environment
that Indonesia subsequently faced during the implementation of PRSL II was somewhat favorable, with
increasing oil prices and a recent turnaround in the neighboring countries. Investor confidence is still low
enough to inhibit significant return of flight capital or foreign direct investment inflows, although this is
partly influenced by political uncertainties within Indonesia and the slow progress implementation of
structural reforms.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Measures within the Governnent's control were laid out in the Letter of Development Policy. Satisfactory
progress was made with respect to the key actions that the Governnent had committed to undertake under
this loan despite political uncertainties and the ongoing transformation in Indonesia towards more
democratic freedoms in civil society, decentralization and greater transparency in government. Table 2
shows that these critical actions have not been reversed to date. Additional actions that are being
undertaken are outlined in the matrix of policy actions (see Annex 7). This reform program was closely
monitored by the Asian Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank through
joint reviews (under the LOI process), first monthly and then bi-monthly. The PRSL II task team members
who were stationed at the World Bank's Office in Jakarta also maintained continuous dialogue between all
stakeholders of this loan on a regular basis. Frequent policy dialogue between the Bank and the authorities
on key components of PRSL II have also continued during Bank's sectoral supervision missions to
Indonesia.
On the negative side, the main concern has been with slow implementation progress in structural reforms.
For instance, laws have been issued under the auspices of PRSL II but their implementation has been
sluggish. The Commercial Court and the Bankruptcy Law are cases in point. The JITF was not given an
- 10 -



operating budget from Government even to pay the salaries of its members/employees until eight months
after its creation. IBRA faced similar obstacles, such as not being able to take loan defaulters to court until
an appropriate law was issued. Political interference and allegations of nepotism, collusion and corruption
in government contributed to the instability and sluggish implementation of structural reforms.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The reform program supported by PRSL II was overseen by the Financial and Economic Resilience
Council with implementing and monitoring responsibility. The Council was composed of competent senior
advisors with established reputation, key economic ministers and private sector representatives. The
Council was chaired by the President and the Coordinating Minister for Economics, Finance and Industry
was the Executive Chairman. The Minister of Planning was the Council's Secretary General who had the
overall responsibility for implementation and monitoring the program. A team of experts on the Council
worked assiduously with Bank and IMF staff. While uncertainty in the political sphere affected the
preparation and implementation of the reform program, these agencies and their officials contributed
greatly to the completion of actions within a reasonable timeframe, amid difficult working conditions and
uncertainty beyond their control. Their efforts resulted in the completion of the conditions for effectiveness
for the loan.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total loan amount was US$500 million which was disbursed in one tranche on the date of effectiveness,
June 18, 1999. The interest rate on the loan is the 6-month USD LIBOR fixed base rate plus 0.75 percent
(LIBOR fixed total spread). There is a I percent of principal service charge paid on effectiveness and a
standard commitment charge of 0.75 percent. The loan term is 15 years with five years of grace period.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
As Indonesia began the year 2000, broad macro-economic indicators have shown encouraging
improvements, accompanied by indications of some return in investor confidence. However, the pace of
recovery is still tentative. The sustainability of the overall reform program remains fragile as the major
risks covered in the staff appraisal report remain significant. As it was the case with PRSL I, the banking
and corporate restructuring and govemance remain a risk and could still undermine the sustainability of the
program. The sustainability of the project objectives has been somewhat enhanced by the large presence of
PRSL II team members at the Bank's Office in Jakarta which facilitated regular dialogue on
implementation progress and impediments that arose. This was further supported by the monthly (and
subsequently bi-monthly) reviews by the IMF.
PRSL II is another valuable brick in the overall foundation of economic reforms in Indonesia and
contributed further to the recovery road map. However, the project sustainability depends very much on
the continuing reforms to be undertaken and additional measures still being specified as part of an ongoing
reform program package. Thus, while the reforms supported by this operation had formned a well defined
recovery path, the eventual sustainability of the program remains dependent on on-going and follow-up
reforms.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
Beside bringing about immediate remedy to stabilize the economy of Indonesia, the PRSL II, as well as the
PRSL I, has built a foundation for further structural reforms to be carried out by the Government. The
series of adjustment loans (PRSL I and II, WATSAL, and SSNAL) have prepared the ground for
momentum toward further restructuring programs and for Bank's future assistance to Indonesia. Since the
second policy reform support loan was approved in May 1999 the Bank has stepped up its work on
- 1 1-



governance and anti-corruption in Indonesia, in close collaboration with partners. A Partnership for
Governance Reform has been established, which brings together Government, civil society, private sector,
and donors to facilitate a national dialogue on governance. The Bank is leading a similar donor group on
forestry sector reform. Two CGI meetings have been held since the last CAS Progress Report in which
Government and donors discussed progress on the governance agenda. These meetings are now open to
civil society representation.
In determining its future lending operations in Indonesia, the Bank will aim for increased partnerships,
focusing its involvement on areas with close strategic fit and comparative advantage. The partnership
models on governance, forestry, decentralization, and legal reform are cases in point. As part of CAS
preparation process that is underway, the Bank will seek a sharper delineation of its role, and urge other
donors to take on leadership in relevant areas. Examples are privatization, corporate governance and SME
development where ADB is taking the lead.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank has maintained a close relationship with Indonesian counterparts and plays an effective
supporting partner's role in the client country through a series of adjustment and project loans while
coordinating the program of recovery with the international donor community (CGI), in collaboration with
the IMF. PRSL II played a vital role, in conjunction with the other adjustment operations of the Bank, in
providing the necessary resources to meet its CGI commitment to help Indonesia in its time of need at a
critical phase of its crisis-recovery effort.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank supervised the project from the field, with the co-Task Team Leader (Mr. Mckay) being resident
in Jakarta. This allowed for close monitoring of the effectiveness conditions of the loan and subsequent
progress in the implementation of other actions stated in the Letter of Development Policy. This modality
has helped to sustain the momentum of loan implementation and for its satisfactory supervision.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, the approach of the Bank in this assistance to Indonesia, coupled with the intensified coordination
and close partnership with the IMF, ADB, and bilateral donors brought about a consensus in the diagnosis
and development of remedies. The distinct but mutually supportive role of the international community
also contributed greatly in the preparation of a multifaceted assistance to the Government in implementing
reforms. The Bank's interim CAS (1999) responded effectively to the rapidly changing economic and
social situation in Indonesia. This helped the Bank prepare a program of assistance first to meet critical
immediate needs and then to build the foundations for a return to sustainable growth.
As with the previous lending operation, Bank staff faced some uncertainty as Indonesia experienced
unprecedented political challenges and the prospects of a new democracy and subsequent changes in senior
officials. However, the work on PRSL II clearly benefited from a well seasoned regional staff and close
coordination with headquarters staff (The project was co-task managed by one Bank Staff in WBOJ and
one at Headquarters). This has resulted in the successful presentation of PRSL II to the Board in only a
few months after PRSL I was completed, thus maintaining the momentum of the reform program supported
by the Bank and demonstrating the commitment of the Bank in implementing the CAS in Indonesia, despite
severe difficulties and time constraints in the preparation schedule. This operation again demonstrated the
benefits of a decentralized administration of the Bank in the field through ready presence and timely
response by staff to the country's needs.
- 12 -



This project also facilitated extensive consultations with civil society to bring about a "buy-in" of the
objectives and measures to be undertaken under PRSL II (See Table 4). This was particularly irnportant
given political and economic uncertainties in Indonesia and the potentially divisive nature of many policy
issues.
Table 4. List of Civil Society Consultations on Reform Program Supported by PRSL II
Date             Participants                             Issues
Sep 1998         Forestry officials, donors, and NGOs     Forestry issues and policy reform options for PRSL II
Oct 1998         Government officials and NGOs            To design consultations at provincial and district levels
for WATSAL.
Oct 1998         WWF Alliance, The Nature Conservancy,    Forestry management issues.
and Conservation International
Nov 1998         Donors                                   Coordination and support on proposed social safety nets
and governance/anti-corruption initiatives.
Nov 1998         Forestry donors and NGOs.                Forestry issues and suggestions for policy reforms in
PRSL n.
Nov 1998         Leading opposition figures, thinkers, and  Overall reform program and external support.
student leaders.
Nov 1998         Donors on environment.                   Strategy and collaboration on conversion to unleaded
gasoline and other clean fuels.
Nov 1998         BAPPENAS and civil society leaders.      SSNAL monitoring and high-level commissions.
Dec 1998         Government                               General framework of bank assistance.
Dec 1998         Bilateral donors.                        Funding for NGO activities as part of the social safety
net.
Dec 1998         Local and international NGOs.            Proposed lending operations - PRSL H, SSNAL, and
WATSAL - inclusion of NGOs in decision making.
Dec 1998         Government, private sector groups and    Full Day Workshop (12/09) on overall assistance
academics.                               strategy and operations.
Dec 1998         Chamber of Industry and Commerce.        Trade and industry policies.
Dec 1998         Water sector NGOs and water user         Water sector policies.
associations.
Dec 1998         Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops and  Work program for consultations on "forests for people"
forestry donors.                        policy.
Dec 1998         Media consultation.                      Adjustment Operations and Country Assistance
Strategy.
Jan 1999         Business and investment community (with  PRSL n1 and governance policies.
IFC).
- 13 -



Jan 1999         Mid-year CGI meeting with donors and    Donor response to the crisis, with particular emphasis
government.                             on social sectors.
Jan 1999         NGOs and leading civil society advocates.  Latest findings on social impacts of the crisis and
implications for the SSNAL.
Feb 1999         Technical level meeting with donors.    Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan and Govemance
operation.
Feb-Mar 1999     Forestry NGOs, bilateral donors, and    Forestry sector reforms options, implementation and
industry.                               consultation process.
Mar-Apr 1999     Range of civil society and NGOs         Seeking participation in Social Safety Net independent
monitoring group.
Apr 1999         Members of Urban Poor Consortium.       Safety net programs, addressing problems and
complaints.
Apr 1999         BAPPENAS consultations with NGOs.       Two separate workshops with over 300 participants.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
As a continuation of the overall stabilization, recovery, and reform program, the Government of Indonesia
played an active role in the preparation of the loan and its performance benefited from previous lending
operations such as the PRSL I and other related loans.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation of the program was satisfactory overall during a period of political
difficulty and uncertainty, especially for the staff of the ministries and agencies involved in the appraisal
and preparation of the loan. Because the PRSL II has only one tranche, there was enormous pressure to
fulfill all the conditions prior to Board presentation and the Government had achieved them. The
Government also benefited from extensive public consultations held as part of the preparation of the
assistance program and the adjustment operations. Given the political and economic uncertainty in
Indonesia and the potential divisive nature of policy issues covered in the program, the Govemnment was
successful in seeking the engagement of and assistance from the civil society in its efforts to stabilize the
economy and set the stage for economic and institutional reforms aimed toward long-term sustainable
growth. The consultations also served as the basis for enhance transparency and governance.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Financial and Economic Resilience Council has had a beneficial experience with the previous loan and
considered the PRSL II an obvious continuation in support of the government's ongoing economic recovery
and reform program. It faced considerable pressures and difficulties in a difficult political environment.
Its performance was greatly helped with the effort to reach out and conduct extensive consultations with the
business community, labor representatives, and NGOs. There were some delays in fulfilling the pre-Board
conditions (i.e., with regard to the tariff on palm oil) but the Council's overall performance was
satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Government performance is considered satisfactory in the implementation of PRSL II. The time
pressure in the preparation of this lending operation was partly due to the politically difficult actions that
had to be undertaken prior to the presentation of the loan to the Bank's Board (such as the closure of 38
- 14 -



banks). This single-tranche loan, therefore, posed a significant challenge for the Government to meet the
pre-Board conditions to demonstrate its commitment to the reform program. All this had to be done in
conjunction with the numerous conditions that were laid out in the IMF Letter of Intent (LOI). "Adjustment
fatigue" seemed a real possibility which posed an additional risk to the success and sustainability of the
reform program. This risk was sufficiently overcome by the Government.
The Government also demonstrated its willingness to work with the civil society in order to enhance the
credibility of its reform program, and thus its commitment for reforms that would be appropriate for the
country as a whole. Official consultations were business groups, labor representatives, and NGOs during
the loan preparation. The implementing Council for the loan also included private sector representatives.
In this regard, PRSL II brought to the fore the issue of corruption and governance while helping the
Government toward the enactment of anti-corruption laws and other regulations to enhance transparency
and efficiency in public resources management. The Public Expenditure Review and Privatization Master
Plans were published. During PRSL II preparation, and similar to the implementation of PRSL I, the
maintenance of a sound macro-economic framework was a difficult challenge for the Govermment with
many factors outside its control such as the rapidly increasing debt burden. The implementation of bank
and corporate restructuring to address fundamental problems of debt and non-performing loans remained
challenging for the Government, similar to the situation in other crisis countries.
8. Lessons Learned
The major lessons from PRSL are:
*     Stable macroeconomic environment is essential but difficult to achieve amidst acute political
uncertainty. A stable macroeconomic environment is necessary and fundamental to structural reforns.
The Government showed its commitment and has achieved some degree of macroeconomic stabilization.
*      Counterpart quality is important to success.  The presence of capable policy makers and
implementers is a prerequisite to a successful reform program. The responsible agencies and ministries in
the government have shown strong commitment to carry out the program by fulfilling all required
conditions for the operation in spite of the difficulties and political uncertainties facing the Government.
*     A single-tranche operation can heighten the needs to implement critical reforms within a
specified time frame. The single tranche provides an urgent incentive to implement the reforns which
needed to be carried out on a short-time period. This was especially helpful especially when it followed
PRSL I and gave a clear signal for the Government to maintain the momentum for reforms.
*      Close coordination among key development partners is important during the implementation
stage. While it is important for the success of a recovery operation with multiple institutions and bilateral
government agencies to agree on the best course of action with an appropriate division of responsibility, it
is equally important for these institutions to be supportive during the implementation of the agreed
program. The importance of coordinating committees and teamwork between the international financial
institutions and bilateral donors cannot be underestimated. This facilitated formal arrangements for regular
information sharing among the stakeholders.
*      Up-to-date and accurate data and analyses are necessary for good policy design and also for the
implementation of the agreed policy. With the continuously changing economic situation such as that
experienced in Indonesia, the importance of up-to-date analyses of the current situation cannot be
discounted. At the same time, clear, open, and consistent objective communications on potential crises
- 15 -



would contribute to the ability of the decision-makers to adopt timely and sound measures to meet the
challenges. Close monitoring by the Government played a positive role in reinforcing and maintaining
official commitment and focus to the implementation of the program.
*     Close working relations between the Bank' s Headquarters and its decentralized Country
Department, with continuous presence of key staff in the country and its counterparts improve the
impact of World Bank assistance. PRSL II's preparation was an example of cooperation and coordination
between Bank staff and other stakeholders in bringing about the desired outcomes in a policy-based lending
operation. Consultations with the private sector and the civil society were also a positive and essential
feature that contributed to the success of the reform program during a period of political uncertainty.
Intensive supervision of the loan through the Bank's country office contributed to the successful completion
of the loan.
*     Improvements in transparency and governance, supported by PRSL operations, have provided
firm foundation for better government. PRSL II continued to support strengthening the movement toward
institutional transparency and better governance in the new administration.
*     Attention to the overall environmental management is an important component in the matrix of
policy actions (Annex 7). The Government did not neglect environment issues during the economnic crisis
and efforts were made to issue relevant laws and regulations to improve environmental management and
reduce sources of pollution.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
- 16-



N&JIONALDKVEUONWW?L&NINGC MNCV
Otur Ref. : U/3D2/2000                            Jnk -na, 3:t  June 2000
mr. liel Hoifmniat,
risador Economist.* 
Rr,sirkmrn Shiff in tnsimnii            -8\
WA'trld Bank
Sulbject. buplemenation CompleinReporo (ICR; for Pnlicy RcfOOii
Supporl Loan T   (PRSL U)
lD2;i Mr. iofiMian.
Refeoring to your lntter dahod June 29. 2000 regardtin_ Lhe subjecl ntmtinned
-jtcw. we hiave several responses o te draft of the ICR as tolbllnr.
C. Re ;adiing the draft of Tih ICR for PRSL If, in principal Bappcas has no objection
In the m tJonod ICR's diaL Bappenas is in line with tiLr Hank 'S opinion tha ihe
PRSL [1 has supported the  stblisdaent of an isttiutional iaurnd;uion lor a
sustauicd rtcovy huvath  haC  trfusparccy, iflproWvcnfliis in oVcfLdrCC
ud anti corruption. It is indicated by lhe fulfi1fimna  of the'roZrma txir3a for inchb
* re:lease
2. The stislainability of the pogram is dccminl by ilc CGvcnrnicot's strong
conniinnent io the refrw. Mohnitodag nicaisnm of ilic pm:nrrm iaicplcnenitoiou
is mne of niany aspects expted to mintain such a coniniimicl and to acCelrnIle
ilic pogram implecctation. Wc beicve that tbe targc proswnce olf PRSL II LeaLTI
members at the 3ank's Office in J.ckwta, muppot  by the monllyl reviews by dh
I MF, has h-anced the sustainability of the project objectlves. Now. BappenUs is
ruiining the &ouiw Refbnw and S&t*&iy PoFaek yInfnnmgnenst 'itfles' thLt will
wssist tile Govermacto detct, anuicipat, ad report the irrrrss of the progr.anL
lmm supponcd by the IMF. lb* Word Bank, te ADB, ndil 1lw .3' regulnrly. It il;
hoped Kliam with supporting the systm snm  problensN cotikl he followed Lip
Promptly.
3   In regard to the role of Doam in their operztions in lndaongsi..wV uarco it incressaw
ttie prnunship bezuu  t   GOVWmUCDt PM   Domrs la sappoTt shlrcluial
4jus3tcn  rdbr  ix many amn  of dCvelopmcnL agcL'L Ilmwrvrcr, foni she
savemnmt side, experimnic showsn Ihat one led to Ehc slow implemeniarios
pnrTess on the rebm was cuns by a lack of initiative :wtions tn iniplenmnt thA
retntr   Therefbre, we suzes the Bmks ad other Donors to sutppor the
RW'numrnt in mnkr. I  inilintit'ut mdr nirk in pavcawng the refioni tcndu
- 17-



-Lt C-oncerning to the matrix of poftoy acCli, plet ful atiilIeIld 1h9 mfilioimil
ilrformgtiju urd  tit-tion of.a   unn in lrnlootn a.
I hoe that these respoe are able to witch the ICR tvpori !ina PRSL If ancd
otlher pn3mtns us well
Thrn't you Ihr your khid mwnUn Wd coopaua
t^_     -hullamniad Abdub.
T Dpuy C'iifM*LS for Fit:mwC
cc. Clairman of Bappeus
- 18 -



PROGRESS REPORT
SECOND POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN (PRSL II)
OBJECTIVE                         ACTION                       COMPLETION  REMARKS
_ STATUS
B. Reforming the banking sector and facilitating corporate and debt restructuring
Accomplish    1. Issued UU No. 4/1998 on Bankruptcy
banking
problems                                               ._
2. Issued Keppres No. 97/1999 as implementation of                  - Commercial
the UU by establishing Commercial Court at state                     Court in Ujung,
court in Jakarta, Ujung, Pandang, Medan, Surabaya                   Pandang,
and Semarang                                                        Medan,
Surabaya and
Semarang
formally
established on
May 8, 2000
Facilitating the 1. Issued Keppres No. 7 1/M199 on determining 4
smooth process (four) Ad Hoc Judges at Commercial Court
in Commercial 2. Issued Keppres No. 108/M12000 on determining 9
Court          (nine) Ad Hoc Judges at Commercial Court
C. Reforming and building institutions to improve governance and to increase transparency and efficiency
Issue a draft   1. Issued UU No. 28/1999 about Clean Government,
Law about the  Free from Corruption, Collusion and Nepotism (UU
Eradication of  KKN).
Corruption
Criminal Act
2. Issued Keppres No. 27/1999 about Komisi                          - List of
Pemeriksa Kekayaan Penyclenggara Negara                             commission's
members has
been submitted
to the
Parliament
3. Issued UU No. 30/1999 about Combating of
Corruption Criminal Acts.
4. Issued PP No. 19/2000 about establishing Tim                     - The team
Gabungan Anti Korupsi (Anti-Corruption Joint Team).                 chaired by Adi
Andovo SH
(former
Supreme Judge),
its members
consist of
representatives
from Dep
Kumdang,
Police, Attomey
General &
INGO.
- 19-



5. Established National OMBUDSMAN Commission                         - To monitor
performance of
govemment
personnel
related to KKN
practices.
Proposed Law   1. Issued UU No.43/1999 (revision of UU No.
regarding      8/1974) about Government Personnel Regulation,
Fiscal         related to government personnel reallocation from
Equalization    central to regional government.
between the    2. Issued PP No. 5/1999, about prohibition to
Central and    govemment personnel to be a member/management
Regional       staff of political party.
Government;  3. Preparing a draft of Keppres about Special Staff
and Regional   Appointee in government bureaucracy, as special staff
Administration in president, vice-president, minister and governor
offices.
Reduce costs &  I. Reduced import tariffs that are 15% or above by 5  31/12/1998
increase       percentage points (excl. motor vehicles & alcohol),
efficiency by    & reduce tariffs on all food items to 5%.
increasing     2. Reduced tariffs on non-food agricultural product by 31/12/1998
import         5 percentage points.
competition    3. Reduce import tariffs that are 10% or below by 5    1st quarter 1999
percentage points.
4. Reduce all import tariffs to a maximum of 10%  3rd qtr 1999 and
(2003) excl. motor vehicle & alcohol.            beyond
5. Included chemicals, metal products & agricultural  31/12/1998
goods in the program for further tariff reductions.
6. Discontinued special tax, custom duty and credit   31/12/1998
privileges granted to new imports under the National
Car Project.
7. Abolish local content regulations on dairy products. 31/12/1998
8. Reduce import tariff exemptions.              1st qtr 1999
9. Abolish local content on motor vehicles in    3rd qtr 1999 and
July 1999.                                      beyond
10. Phase out remaining quantitative import     3rd qtr 1999 and
restrictions & other non-tariff barriers        beyond
(December 2000).
11. Eliminate producer-importer & trade-importer  3rd qtr 1999 and
licensing except for moral hazard & security products. beyond
12. Allowed all traders, including foreign direct  31/12/1998
investors to compete with Bulog with importing.
13. Bulog prepared a plan to sell off its wheat stocks.  1st qtr 1999
14. Bulog to implement plan to sell off its wheat  3rd qtr 1999
stocks.
- 20 -



Remove export 1. Introduced a system of resource royalties,  31/12/1998
impediments to reduce export taxes of logs, sawn timber &
improve export rattan to a maximum of 30% ad-valorem &
competitiveness adopted & announced a program to reduce this
to 20% by Dec. 31, 1998; 15% by Dec. 31,
1999 and 10% by Dec. 31, 2000.
2. Reduced export tax on logs, sawn timber, rattan & 1st qtr 1999
minerals to a maximum of 20%.
3. Reduce export tax on logs, sawn timber, rattan  3rd qtr 1999 and
& minerals to a maximum of 10% by end-December  beyond
2000, & to introduce resource rent royalties as
appropriate.
4. Replace quantitative export control on crude &  31/12/1998
processed palm oil, olefin and stearin with an export
tax of 60% ad-valorem or less, and hold regular
reviews with an objective of reducing this to
10%/0 by Dec. 31, 1999
5. Abolish export tax on leather, cork, ores & waste  31/12/1998
aluminum products.
6. Reduced the maximum export tax on palm oil to   1st qtr 1999
40%.
7. Review export tax on palm oil and adopt program   1st qtr 1999
for phased reduction to 10% by Dec. 1999.
8. Reduce export tax on palm oil to a maximum of   3rd qtr 1999 and
10% by end-Dec 1999.                          beyond
9. Eliminate all other export restriction.     3rd qtr 1999 and
beyond.
Relax          1. Removed the restrictions on foreign investment    31/12/1998
investment    in palm oil.
restrictions to  2. Issued a shortened list of activities closed to foreign 31/12/1998
encourage     investors
investment     3. Removed restrictions on foreign investments in    31/12/1998
wholesale and retail trade.
4. Reduce the number of activities reserved for  3rd qtr 1999 and
domestic investors                            beyond
5. Reduce the number of activities reserved for  3rd qtr 1999 and
small-scale enterprises and the number of activities    beyond
reserved for large-scale enterprises in partnership with
small-scale enterprises.
- 21 -



Deregulate     1. Dissolved all restrictive marketing arrangements,  31/12/1998
domestic trade  including those for cement, paper and plywood.
to reduce costs 2. Deregulated domestic prices of cement.      31/12/1998
and increase   3. Gave traders freedom to buy, sell and transfer all  31/12/1998
efficiency     commodities across district and provincial boundaries,
including cloves, cashew nuts, oranges and vanilla.
4. Dissolved the Clove Support and Marketing Board  31/12/1998
(BPPC) and maintained the right of traders to buy and
sell cloves at unrestricted prices and to transport cloves
across district and provincial boundaries.
5. Prohibited provincial govemments from restricting 31/12/1998
trade within or between provinces.
6. Prohibited provincial or district govemments from  31/12/1998
charging export taxes (retribusi).
7. Permitted domestic wheat-millers to sell or  31/12/1998
distribute wheat flour to any agent.
8. Allowed traders to market sugar domestically.  31/12/1998
9. Released farmers from the formal and informal    31/12/1998
requirements for the forced planting of sugar cane.
10. Abolished the system of quotas that limit the sale  31/12/1998
of livestock.
Establish rules  1. Prepared and reviewed draft Monopoly &     31/12/1998
to maintain    Unhealthy Competition Law
competition    2. Parliament enacted a new Monopoly Practices and  31/12/1998
Unhealthy Competition Law (MPUCL) that (i) focuses
on market behavior rather than market structure; (ii) is
applied to all enterprises (public & private) and (iii)
envisages the creation of an independent agency to
implement and enforce this competition law.
3. Prepare a Keppres for establishing commission  1st qtr 1999
and draft implementing regulations for the
competition law.
4. Implement regulations, guidelines policy     2nd qtr 1999
documents consistent with intemational best practices.
5. Implement a corporate compliance program and a  3rd qtr 1999 and
public dissemination campaign.                  beyond
6. Appoint Commissioners, commit budgetary      3rd qtr 1999 and
resources and recruit professional staff for the  beyond.
commission to implement the MPUCL.
Issue Oil and   The draft has been submitted to the Parliament.
Gas Law
Issue          1. The draft was reviewed by Cabinet Secretary on                    The Parliament
Electricity Law July 1999.                                                          and Government
2. Need for modifications conceming to new                          have been
Regulation Law 22/1999 (Regional Autonomy).                         discussing draft
of the law since
June 2000.
- 22 -



Appoint        Under review by World Bank
management
consultants to
assist PLN with
corporate and
financial
restructuring  I
(o) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
tn% 0 ca0oriMtI                             PiQJ0td In4 0    000st   00l05|  0 PSR  A   v  f .st Etlm.t.
Please refer to the Matrix of Policy Actions in
Annex 7
Output Indicators:
Please refer to the Matrix of Policy Actions in
Annex 7
End of project
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
: - - ~smate,.t.r- l  
Proiect Cost By Cor*pont                  .S$ iion          U  liUS
BOP                                                     500.00            500.00            100
Total Baseline Cost                                     500.00            500.00
Total Project Costs                500.00           500.00
Total Financing Required                500.00            500.00
Project Financing by Com onent (in US$ million equivlent)
I .~~.                                                         YP- 5 - - 04 -f . ....................
Appraisa esahnate          Actu-  Latwst     * ..;ti-aP
ak       GBVa'    COF.         nk      Govt  CoF..
BOP                    500.00                       500.00                      100.0  0.0   0.0
0.0   0.0   0.0
0.0   0.0   0.0
-25 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Performnce Rating
(e.g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
September - December         25   Economists: 5; Finance -3;            S                  S
1998                               Corporate restructuring/PSD - 4;
Energy - 2; Environment.-1;
Forestry - 2; Lawyer- 1; Social
Sector - 1; Governance - 1; FMS
- 1; Econ. Data - 2; ACS - 2
Appraisal/Negotiation
December 1998                 8   Economists - 2; Lawyer - 1;           S                  S
Social Safety Nets - 1;
Banking - 1; Governance - 1
Forestry - 1; FMS -1;
Supervision
Done in the field by           9  Economists - 3; Lawyer - I;           S                  S
Staff in the Country               Social Safety Nets - 1;
Office                             Banking - 1; Governance - I
Forestry- 1; PSD - 1.
ICR
March - June 2000             3   Economists - 3.                       S                  S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USS (OO0)
Identification/Preparation                84.5                       289.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                      4.1                        35.1
Supervision                               3.7                         15.1
ICR                                       7.5                         36.6
Total                                    100.7                       376.9
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
FSector Policies                         O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
3 Physical                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Financial                              OH OSUOM O N O NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
ZEnvironmental                           O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Gender                           OH OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
I Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
N Lending                                             OHSOS OLu OHU
M Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
 Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
F  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS   0  U  O HU
F  Overall                                            OHS OS   0  U  O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Matrix of Policy Actions (12 pages)
2. Report of the President: Second Policy Reform Support Loan
3. Loan Agreement
- 30 -



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulfilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4;
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program supported by PRSL II.
Objective        At end-December 1998                          1 First Quarter 1999                       1 Second Quarter 1999                      Third Quarter 1999 and beyond
A. Maintain a sound macroeconomic framework
Strengthen        Tighten money supply and increased interest rates.  Maintain money supply program with reducing inflation quickly and then keep it low.
monetary policy.
Appointed high-level foreign advisors to BI to                                                                                    _
assist in the conduct of monetary policy
Imposed and maintained limits on Bl credits to  Bl phase out credits to public agencies and                                        BI to eliminate all administrative
public ageincies and public sector enterprises,  public sector enterprises, in line with the                                       resmitions on bank lending except for
consistent with the proposed new Central Bank  proposed new Central Bank Law.                                                      prudential reasons or to support SMEs.
Law.
Contain           Sharply reduced capital-intensive development  Bappenas and MOF prepared a 1999/2000     Bappenas continues to scrutinize all proposed major infrastructure projects contains only
expenditures and   expenditure by canceling and postponing non-  fiscal budget with development expenditure  proposals that have high economic rates of retums
improve their     urgent large infrastructure projects           level and sectoral allocations acceptable to the
efficiency.                                                     Bank. This includes adequate provision for
social sector and safety net ptograms, and
avoids large capital and import intensive
projects.
A 1999/2000fiscal budget was approved by
Parliament, with development expenditure
levels, sectoral allocations and social safety
net expenditure allocations (by programs and
by region) acceptable to the Bank.
Increased average administered prices for fuel and   Increased power tariff for large residential  Design and implement plans for phased removal of fuel and power subsidies while
power by 38 and 20 % respectively, with the poor   consumers (Keppres 1/1999).           shielding the poor.
exempt from power tariff increased.            Increased aviation fuel prices to international
market levels.
Eliminated subsidies on sugar, wheat, wheat flour,
and soybeans.
Removes exchange rate subsidy on imports of rice.
Improve revenue     Improved non-oil tax revenue by raising annual  Completed revenue review with IMF assistance and strengthen the revenue systern.
mobilization.     audit coverage, developing improved VAT audit
programs and increasing coverage of tax arrears.    Increase the share of profit transferred from state enterprises, including Pertamina, to the budget.
Increased excise tax onI alcohol and tobacco, to  MOF introduced second stage of excise tax  MOF introduced second stage of excise tax
reflect exchange rate and price developments,  increased for tobacco,                    increased for alcohol
Seek external     Under the umbrella of the Consultative Group for                                                                                   1999 CGI meeting held to seek continuing
financingfor the   Indonesia held in July 1998, the international                                                                                    donor support.
budget deficit.   donor community pledged $7.8 billion in financial
assistance to support a budget that emphasized
I poverty alleviation and social safety nets.                           __
31



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulfilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4;
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program supported by PRSL II.
Objective         At end-December 1998                         | First Quarter 1999                       | Second Quarter 1999| Third Quarter 1999 and beyond
B. Financial and corporate sector restructuring to restore effective banking services and get productive assets back to work.
Establish a       Guarantee program for all depositors and creditors   Bl, with expert consultant support, developed   Bl evaluates and decided on   BI implements deposit insurance scheme.
comprehensive     of locally incorporated banks announced Jan 27,    proposed for a deposit insurance scheme.  implementation date of deposit insurance
guarantee         1998. This guarantee will be in place for at least 2                                      scheme in dialogue with IFIs, and drafts
program to instill  years and will not be terminated without 6 months                                       implementing regulations.
depositor and     advance notice.
creditor          Transferred administration of guarantee scheme
confidence.       from IBRA to BI (IBRA keep payment
responsibilities)
Improve           BI, in conjunction with the World Bank and IMF,   BI prepared a strategy to rebuild a bank  BI reinforces capacity of bank supervision    Bl continues to reinforce supervision
governance and    evaluated needs and provide initial            supervision department in line with        department to plan, execute and evaluate  capacity, to implement new bank
bank supervision   recommendations to strengthen bank supervision.   intemational standards.                bank exams and off-site reporting        supervision policies, provide intensive
and strengthen                                                                                              mechanism.                               training to examiners with the assistance
the policy,                                                                                                                                          of IFIs and monitor progress.
regulatory and
institutional
infrastructure
for banking.                                                                                                                      _     _
Eliminated the minimum capital requirements of                                                                                     Review and raise CAR to intemational
Rp. 250 million on existing banks.                                                                                                 standards.
Introduced Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) of 4%
for all banks.
New asset classification, loan-loss provisioning  Bl implemented new asset classification and    Continue providing training in collaboration  Evaluate need for further amendments to
and debt restructuring regulations approved by Bt   loan-loss provisions identified in the banking    with IFis.                   banking law or regulations.
law
On Nov, 10, 1998, enacted amendments to banking  Govemment issued regulations (PP17/99) in    Monitor implementation and report to IFIs.
law, including provisions to eliminate restrictions   support of key provisions identified in the
on foreign owneTship of banks, bank secrecy, and   banking law.
to empower IBRA.
Banks required to publish comprehensive financial  B1 issued regulation on financial data  Banks' publication of FYI 998 financial  Review the adequacy of financial data
data quarterly.                               publications,                              results.                                  published by banks.
Central Bank Law drafted and circulated foT   Draft of Central Bank Law submitted to     New Central bank Law enacted by           Monitor implementation of new Central
comments                                      Parliament.                                Parliament on Apr 16, 1999                Bank Law
B1 prepares and issues implementing
regulations for the new Central Bank Law.
Establish an      16 banks closed (Nov. 1997) and their licenses  BI continues to liquidate the 16 closed banks.
institutional    revoked.                                       AG investigations to continue.
framework and    Attomey General (AG), in cooperation with BI,
programfor        publicly pursues fonner bank directors and owners.
bank
restructuring.
32



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulJilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4;
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program  supported by PRSL  I.
Objective    7A end-December 1998                            | First Quarter 1999                        Second Quarter 1999                   T|hird Quarter 1999 and beyond
Creation of 1BRA on Jan 26, 1998. IBRA formally  Enacted banking law amendments and
begins operations in Mar 1998.               aopted andpublished implementing
regulations acceptable to the Bank to
empower IBRA and its AMU (PPI 7/99) and
provided neededfunding.
Rl and MOF settled the balance of the
liquidity support (BLBI) transferred to MOF,
and MOF issued bonds to reimburse BI, for
costs Telating to banks under IBRA's auspices
prior to Mar 1999.
55 banks places under IBRA in 1998 (including 10  Al loan assets of the 1O original BBO banks   Continue with sale of non-core assets of the
frozen banks (BBO) and 4 banks taken over    transferred to IBRA 's AMU.                original 10 BBO banks and de-license
(BTO)).                                                                                them.
Settlement with 7 owners of 11 BTO banks (Dec    Placed owners' assets in holding companies
1998)                                        under IBRA's control.
Concluded settlement with the remaining
owners of the BTO/BBO, or referred them to
the AG for prosecution.
Intemationally recognized audit firms completed
due diligence at 24 of 30 private IBRA banks and
5 of 7 state-owned banks (Dec 1998).
Intemationally recognized audit firms completed    Intemational consultants completed business    Concluding recapitalization, with eligible    Monitor compliance with recapitalization
due diligence at 60 private banks supervised by Bl  plan evaluation and BI/MOF/IBRA     banks that meet thc conditions, and signing   contracts at banks receiving government
(Dec 1998) under ADB loan.                   committees decided on which banks to       govemance and regulatory contracts with    capital.
Draft of bank recapitalization scheme prepared  recapitalize, which to close and which to  time-bound- monitorable targets for
with Bl and MOF (Dec 1998).                  nationalize.                              financial and operational improvements,
Majority of BI and IBRA banks classified into 3  Closed 38 private banks (excluding banks  acceptable to the Bank.
groups depending on their CAR level, B Banks (-  that are already "frozen"), nationalized 7  Issue sovereign bonds for recapitalization.    De-license all banks closed in Mar 1999.
25%<CAR<4%) required to prepared a business    banks, and identified 9 banks eligiblefor  Close or nationalize all the B banks where
plan. C banks (CAR<-25%) were given I month   recapitalization. This included dosing all C    contract negotiation fail.
to improve their CAR and thus become B banks.    banks and B banks thatfailed the       Begin liquidation process for all 38 banks
Intemafional consultants hired to test the viability   recapitalization test. These decisions were  closed in Mar 1999, with transfer of all
of the business plans (17 business plans reviewed   based on a transparent, consistent and  loans to IBRA and AMU and sale of non-
as of Dec 1998).                             otherwise internationally acceptable standard  core assets,
ofpractice, as determined by the Bank.    Establish within BI increased supervision
and contract monitoring.
BI to issue decree an any associated
regulations on bank license revocation and
liquidation.
33



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulfilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4;
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program supported by PRSL II.
Objective         At end-December 1998                           First Quarter 1999                        I Second Quarter 1999                    I Third Quarter 1999 and beyond
Announced state-owned bank restructuring plan  Conclude resolition plan for the 4 state banks   Concluded centralization of credit risk  Complete branch resutucturing, transfer of
for 4 banks under Bank Mandiri (Sep 1998).    to integrate under Mandiri.                 unit and treasury units in Mandiri        deposits and funding.
Intemational bank engaged under an advisory    Began implementation of centralized credit  Transfer the 4 banks' non-performing     Dispose of redundant staff.
contract,                                     tisk unit in Bank Mandiri. Targeted 20 largest  loans to Mandiri and recapitalize up to  Complete legal merger when the 4 banks
delinquent borrowers for loan recovery,    4%.                                       assets and liabilities have been either
foreclosure or bankruptcy.                 Initiateforeclosurefor bankruptcy cases.   integrated or disposed off.
Announced voluntary severance plan.        Centralize and downsize branches per      Pian privatization in a 3-5 year honzon.
geographical area.
Provide govemment bonds to fund deposit
transfers to Mandiri.
Established an interdepartmental planning  Prepare business plans for each bank.     Conclude performnance/regulatory
committee to decide on the strategy, and to  Conclude with intemational banks        agreements with the management of the 3
approve and monitor restructuring and      twinning, management or advisory          banks.
recapitalization program.                  agreements.                               Implement restructuring program and
Prepared a blueprint for the restructuring and    Transfer loss loans for AMU.       phased recapitalization according to time-
recapitalization of BNI. BRI and BTN.                                                bound and agreed upon milestones.
Intemational Review Committee (IRC)            2nd meeting of IRD held on Mar 31. 1 'report   Hold meeting quarterly and publish reports.
membership established. 1V meeting of IRC held   prepared. IRD renamed Independent Review
and TOR of IRC secretariat confimied.          Committee and formalized by Presidential
Decree.
IBRA's Asset Management Unit (AMU) chief       AMU established acceptable policies and    AMU to take ownership and management    AMU to take over ownership and
named; financial advisors agreed to the retained;    procedures for its debt recovery, corporate and  control over all loans from banks closed in    management control (directly or through
I' budget approved.                           debt restructuring activities.              Mar 1999.                                servicing contracts acceptable to the
AMU organization chart and revised budget      AMU tool legal tittle to overall loans of 10                                         Bank) over all loans to borrowers with
prepared (Sep 1998).                           banks 'frozen" in April and August 1998,                                             credits rated Group 5 (i.e., 'loss' category)
together with all category 5 loans with a face                                       from all banks recapitalized with
value in excess of 5 billion rupiahsfrom                                             govemment funds, including BTOs.
seven state banks.
Monitor cornpliance with servicing contracts, if any
Ensure credit     BI maintained support and guarantee for trade  BI and concemed Govemment agencies to       Sustain adequate trade financing.
flows to viable    finances, and reviewed them with the IFIs.    evaluate the need for, and availability of, trade
enterprises with                                                 finance.
particular
reference to
trade financing.  _I._.__
34



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulfilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4;
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program supported by PRSL I.
Objective        At end-December 1998                       |FirstQuarter 1999                         Second Quarter 1999                     Third Quarter 1999 and beyond
Strengtheni      Frankfurt agreement established a framework for
bankruptcy and    voluntary restructuring of extemal corporate debt
debt             (June 4.)
restructuring    Officially launched the Indonesia Debt
provision.       Restructuring Agency (INDRA) (Aug 3].
Completed all necessary documentation for
INDRA to become fully operational.          ___
Bankruptcy laws strengthened to provide adequate  Initiated a review of early experience with the  Explore options for strengthening  Adopt and implement measure agreed as
protection to debtors and creditors, and to adopt    Commercial Court, involving Ministry of  Conunercial Court in response to findings    necessary to strengthen the Commnercial
transparent rules for evaluating reorganization  Justice and other experts.           of the review of early experience.     Court.
plans and for liquidation procedures.
New bankruptcy law effective on Aug 20. Newly
established Commercial Court initiated first case
against a corporate debtor under then new
Bankruptcy Law (Sep 30).
Appointed ad hoc judges as provided for in the Review and adjust the salary structure for Comnmercial Court judges.
Bankruptcy Law.                          Continue training of Conunercial Court personnel.
Adopted and implemented a transparent court
fee system for the Commercial Court.
Facditate        Cleared external arrears on trade finance and  Provided the JITF with adequatefunding  Complete a progress report in implementation of Jakarta Initiative, and status of
corporate        interbank debt (Jun 30).                     and sustained the efforts atfacilitating  restructuring of both large and small corporations.
restructuring    Announced Jakarta Iniadve to facflitate      voluntary restructuring.
corporate restructuring (Sep 9) and established
Jakarta Initiative Task Force (Oct 30).
World Bank and JITF held conference to publicize
and disseminate information on JI (Nov. 2-3).
Provided tax neutrality for nergers.        Issued implementing regulations pertaining    Submitted to Parliament, legislation  Review and enact new Arbitration Law.
to tax neutralityfor mergers.            providing for a priority registration system
Removed restrictions on debt/equity      for charges over plant, inventory and
conversions,                             receivables.
Draft of New Arbitration Law submitted to  Make recommendations for strengthening
Parliament.                              securities regulation, stock exchange listing
requirements and the company and
accounting laws.
Review and assess the effect of restrictions
on property ownership for corporate
restructuring.
Completed case registration and filling procedures,  Made regulatoryfacilitation group (one-stop shop) operationaL
along with implementing guidelines for regulatory
facilitation group (one-stop shop).
Designed and implemented a coherent framework and Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank for inter-institution cooperation on corporate
restructuring.
35



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulfilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4;
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program supported by PRSL I.
Objective        At end-December 1998                       T First Quarter 1999                       | Second Quarter 1999                     Third Quarter 1999 and beyond
C. Reforming and building institutions to improve governance, and in increase transparency and efficiency.
Increase         Launched diagnostic studies on corruption with  Submitted the draft of two anti-corruption  Two new anti-corruption laws enacted by
transparency in   civil society.                              laws to Parliament, namely the Law about   Parliament.
general and                                                   the Evaluation of Corruption Criminal Acts   Issued a Keppres to establish an
pursue anti-                                                   and the Law regarding State Administrators   independent commission to investigate
corruption                                                     who arefreefrom Corruption, Collusion and   alleged corruption in the public sector,
Nepotism.                                 including the judiciary.
Submitted the draft of an administrative
decentralization law to Parliament.
Establish a clear   Established clear and transparent cross-sectoral  Prepared further implementing guidelines  Implement sectoral implementing guidelines for Keppres 7
and transparent   procedures for competitive tendering on the  clarifying public sector procurement
frameworkfor    private provision of infrastructure (Keppres 7/1998  procedures.
public           plus implementing Ministerial Decree).
procurement and   Publicized Keppres 7 rules and principles and
bidding on       established arrangements for monitoring
projects,        implementation.
Clarify the respective roles of sector Ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry
for the Empowerment of State-Owned Enterprises in relation to infrastructure policy and
administration; separating more effectively the State's roles as owner, policy maker,
regulator infrastructure; and improving the transparency and targeting of subsidies for
infrastructure services.
Initiated random independent audits of public                                          Agree on actons to strengthen pTocurement  Agree on a strategy to remove any
sector procurement.                                                                    practices.                              ambiguibes and limitabons in the audit
authority of BPK, nmaking it consistent
with INTOSAI auditing precepts.
Increase         Completed a review of public expenditures and  Initiated a second Public Expenditure Review    Completed the second Public Expenditure Review.
transparency and  investment, including public enterprises and  focusing on public expenditure processes and   Regularly review the list of public investment projects with the Bank.
effciency of the   strategic industries.                       public enterprises.
budget
Submitted the draft of arfscal            Prepare and issue implementing regulation for fiscal decentralization law.
decentralization law to Parliament,
acceptable to the Bank
Develop and announce a plan for moves towards a more comprehensive budget system,
unifying the recurrent and development budget.
36



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulfilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4;
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program supported by PRSL II.
Objective        At end-December 1998                       | First Quarter 1999                    |TSecond Quarter 1999                    TThird Quarter 1999 and beyond
Appointed intemational auditors to conduct special  MOF appointed intemational auditors to  Complete special audits of Pertamina, PLN,  Completed special audits of the
(efficiency and forensic) audits of Pertamina, PLN,  conduct a special audit for the Reforestation    and BULOG.              Reforestation Fund in August 1999.
and BULOG.                                  Fund                                                                              Follow up on findings and
recommnendations of Pertamina, PLN,
BULOG, Reforestation Fund special
audits.
Brought Reforestation and Investmnent Funds into
the Government budget.
Discontinued budgetary and extra budgetary
support credit privileges granted to IPTN projects.
Reform the civil   Allow civil servants to freely associate with any  Govemnment to identify the total number of staff employed by department and agencies outside of civil service terms and conditions,
service to       political party.                             including daily paid, contractual and 'honor' staff.
increase
efficinecy__                                                                                                _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _   _
Design and implement a strategy to monetize and raise civil service benefits.
lmprove          Prepared and announce a comprehensive program    Continued implementation of the adopted  Submit a proposed new Electricity Law to parliament and subsequently prepare
effcikncy,       for restructuring the electric power sector (Power   Power Sector Restructuring Policy, and  implementing regulations.
transparency,    Sector Restructuring policy launched in Aug 1998   prepared a draft of new Electricity Law and
and              and implementing plan announced in Dec 1998).   implementing regulations.              Prepare regulations to provide for a carefully phased transition to a new industry structure
administration of                                             Prepares a draft of a new Oil and Natural  in which Pertamina will be transformned into one or more normal state enterprises,
the electric                                                  Gas Law and submitted it to Parliament.   effective competition in fuel supply will be established, and key infrastructure will be
power, oil and                                                This draft law is designed to attract increased   subject to regulation designed to ensure non-discriminatory open access.
gas, and                                                      private investment in exploration and
telecoms sectors.                                             production activity, to promote accelerated
domestic use of natural gas in place of liquid
fuels, and to improve the efficiency of
_   petroleum refining, transportation operations.
Prepared draft of new laws and implemnenting   Submit proposed new Telecoms Law to Parliament and prepare implemnenting regulations.
regulations for the telecoms sector.
Reform state-    Established a transparent processes for      Implenment restructuring and privatization of SOEs as set out in the naster plan.
owned            privatization.
enterprises      Compleed and published a master planfor the
(SOEs) to        reform of SOEs, bicilding dita actions and an
increase         implementation agenda.
efficiency.__                                                                                                _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _  _
Identified first cohort of 12 SOEs for restructuring   Offered for sale/invite bids for shares in four    Continue preparation for restructuring and preparation of the first and second cohorts of
and partial privatization by March 31, 1999, and    SOEs.                             SOEs.
began preparation process. Identified second
cohort of 6 SOEs.
Divested 14% of Semen Gresik to strategic
partners.           _                _
37



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulfilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4;
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program supported by PRSL II.
Objective        At end-December 1998                   _    First Quarter 1999                       | Second Quarter 1999                    Third Q'arter 1999 and beyond
Continued preparation for restructuring and  Continued preparation for restructuring and  Publish progress report on restructuring and privatization of SOEs, including updated
privatization of the other II of the first cohort of    privatization of the first and second cohorts of  action plans and implementation agenda.
SOEs.                                       SOEs.
Announced plans for preparation of second cohort
of SOEs.
Strengthen land                                                                                        Complete issuance of implementing regulations for 1992 Spatial Management Law.
management and
planning
Begin implementing the transfer of land administration to local government in accordance
with the new Decentralization Law.
To reduce costs    Reduced import tariff (I15% or above) by 5  Reduce import tariffs that are 10% or below by 5 percentage points.             Reduce all import tariffs to a maximum of
and increase     percentage points (exc. motor vehicles and                                                                                    10% (2003) excluding motor vehicle and
efficiency by    alcohol), and reduce tariffs on all food items to                                                                             alcohol.
increasing       5%.
import           Reduced tariffs on non-food agricultural products
competition.     by 5 percentage points.
Included chemicals, metal products and      Reduce import tariff exemptions.                                                  Abolish local content on motor vehicles.
agricultural goods in the program for further tariff                                                                          Phase out remaining quantitative import
reductions.                                                                                                                   restrictions and other non-tariff barriers
Discontinued special tax, customs duty and credit                                                                            (Dec 2000).
privileges granted to new imports under the                                                                                   Eliminate producer-importer and trade-
National Car Project.                                                                                                        importer licensing except for moral hazard
Abolished local content regulations on dairy                                                                                 and security products.
products.
Allowed all traders, including foreign direct  BULOG prepared a plan for selling off its  BULOG to implement plan to sell off its wheat stocks.
investors, to compete with BULOG by importing    wheat stocks.
any commodity.
Remove export   Introduced a system of resource royalties, reduce,   Reduced export tax on logs, sawn timber,                                  Reduce export tax on logs, sawn timber,
impediments to    export taxes of logs, sawn timber, rattan to a  rattan and minerals to a maximum of 20%                                      rattan and minerals to a maximum of 10%
improve export    maximum of 30% ad-valorem, adopted, announced                                                                                by Dec 31, 2000, and introduce resource
competitiveness.   a program to reduce this to 20% by Dec 31, 1998,                                                                            rent royalties as appropriate.
15% by Dec 31, 1999, and 10% by Dec 31, 2000.
Replaced quantitative export controls on crude and  Reduced the maximum export tax on palm oil to 40%                         Reduced export tax on palm oil to a
processed palm oil, olefin and stearin with an                                                                                maximum of 10%.
export tax of 60% ad-valorem or less, and hold                                                                                Eliminate all other export restriction.
regular reviews with an objective of reducing this
to 10% by Dec 31, 1999.
Abolished export taxes on leather, cork, ores and
waster aluminum products.                                                                                                      _
Review export tax on palm oil and adopt program for phased reduction to 10% by Dec 1999.
38



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulfilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4;
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program supported by PRSL II.
Objective         At end-December 1998                         | First Quarter 1999                       | Second Quarter 1999                      Third Quarter 1999 and beyond
Relax investment  Removed the restriction on foreign investment in                                                                                   Reduce the number of activities reserved
restrictions to   oil palm.                                                                                                                          for domestic investors.
encourage         Issued a shortened list of activities closed to                                                                                    Reduce the number of activities reserved
investment.       foreign investors.                                                                                                                 for small-scale enterprises and the number
Removed restriction on foreign investment in                                                                                      of activities reserved for large-scale
wholesale and retail trade.                                                                                                        enterprises if in partnership with small-
scale enterprises.
Deregulate        Dissolved all restrictive marketing arrangements,
domestic trade to  including those for cement, paper and plywood.
reduce costs and   Deregulated domestic prices of cement.
increase          Gave traders freedom to buy, sell and transfer all
efficiency.       commodities across district and provincial
boundaries, including cloves, cashew nuts, oranges
and vanilla.
Dissolved the Clove Support and Marketing Board
(BPPC) and maintained the rights of traders to buy
and sell cloves at unrestricted prices and to
transport cloves across district and provincial
boundaries.
Prohibited provincial government from restricting   Initiated a review of domestic provincial and    Continue the review and streamlining of business licensing and regulations in response to
trade within or between provinces.            local government regulations and licensing  findings.
Prohibited provincial or district governments form   restrictions.
charging export taxes (retribusi).
Permitted domestic wheat millers to sell or
distribute wheat flour to any agent.
Allowed traders to market sugar domestically.
Released farmers from the formal and informal
requirements for the forced planting of sugar cane.
Abolished the system of quotas that limit the sale
of livestock.
Establish rules to  Prepared and reviewed draft Monopoly Practices    Parliament enacted a new Monopoly     Prepare a Keppres for establishing       Implement regulations, guidelines policy
maintain          and Unhealthy Competition Law.                Practices and Unhealthy Competition Law     commission and draft implementing        documents consistent with intemational
competition                                                     (MPUCL) that: (i) focuses on market behavior  regulations for the competition law.   best practice.
rather than market structure, (ii) is applied to                                    Implement a corporate compliance
all enterprises (public as well as private), and                                    program and a public dissemination
(iii) envisages the creation of an independent                                      campaign.
agency to implement and enforce this new                                            Appoint Commissioners, commit
competition law.                                                                    budgetary resources and recruit
professional staff for the Commission to
implement the MPUCL.
39



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulfilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4;
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program supported by PRSL II.
Objective        At end-December 1998                           First Quarter 1999                       | Second Quarter 1999                    |Third Quarter 1999 and beyond
Improve                                                         BAPEPAM reviewed methods of improving      BAPEPAM will issue a report             BAPEPAM to complete its review of
corporate                                                       corporate govemance in order to further   recommending actions to improve corporate  accounting and auditing standards to
governance by                                                   strengthen the securities market.          governance.                              determine where changes are needed to
increasing                                                                                                                                         achieve consistency with international
private sector                                                                                                                                      standards.
disclosure and
management
eversight.
BAPEPAM, working with other concerned agencies, will review issues related to minority
shareholder rights and foreign ownership, and develop suggestions.
BAPEPAM to develop options for          The Ministry of Justice, working with
improving the Company Law, including    BAPEPAM and other relevant institutions,
aspects related to mergers and acquisitions.  will prepare revisions to the Company
Law for submission to Parliament.
Initiate improved                                              Issued a concession management regulations  Complete analysis and draft design of an  Subject to the outcome of analysis and
protection of                                                   covering operations in permanent production   area-based revenue collection systemii for  consultations, finialize anid implement anl
forest cover and                                                forest and applying to all legal entities  concession operation.                    area-based revenue system.
strengthenforest                                                engaged inforest productioit, which:
management and                                                   i.       de-links concession holding from
protection.                                                          requirement to own processing facilities;
ii.     allows transfer of concession
rights by sale.
iii.    lengthens concession periods to
20 years plus the regeneration rotation
length (usually 35 years, for a total of 55
years)l and
iv.     requires establishment of an
acceptable performance bonding system.
Prepared draft implementing regulations for    Establish a system for the operation and  Implement independent inspection of
the performance bonding system, submitted    transparent reporting of independent forest   concession operations as part of the
them to review by the multistakeholder    operation inspection teams in concession  performance bond system.
consultation process described below and  areas.
initated revisions in view of feedback.   Established practical outcome-based
criteria and implementing regulations for
performance bonding.
Reduced the export tax on logs, sawn timber
and rattan to a maximum of20.__
Review and refine the resource rent royalty rate to ensure that it captures at least 60% of
economic rent.
40



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulfilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4;
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program supported by PRSL II.
Objective        At end-December 1998                         First Quarter 1999                      | Second Quarter 1999                    Third Quarter 1999 and beyond
Ensured that the reforestation fund (Dana   In cooperation with the Bank, analyze and determine financial and institutional arrangements to utilize the Dana Reboisasi and other
Reboisasi) is transparent and restricted for use in    Government funds. The findings of the independent audit of the Dana Reboisasi will be used to improve the system of Dana Reboisasi
reforestation and closely related activities.  collection and allocation.
Initiated a multi-stakeholder consultative process by which all proposed regulations and legislation will be publicly reviewed and discussed
up to the final drafting stage.
Prepared a model map to show the boundaries of existing forest cover to a 1:500,000 scale,    Complete the mapping of all remaining
acceptable to the Bank. This is to be used as a model to prepare maps of forest cover for all   natural forest cover throughout Indonesia.
provinces of Indonesia.                                                          Implement a mechanism for regularly
updating these maps.
Use the above model to prepare maps of all forest areas in Sumatra, Kalimantan, Sulawesi,
Maluku and Irian Jaya having 1996 or more recent satellite imagery (MOFEC) already has
such imagery for at least 50% of this area).
Make these maps publicly available (e.g., on public display at the MOFEC) as they are
completed.
Locate on the above maps as they become available, the 80 priority conservation forest areas identified in the Biodiversity Action Plan and
all other conservation areas. Also locate the boundaries of protection forest (hutan lindung) and production forests.
Provide an acceptable workplan and time frame for completing designation and gazetting of these areas.
Until the maps referred to above are in place, implement and maintain a moratorium on:
i.      conversion of state forest areas; and
ii.     alteration of main land use patterns within state forest areas.
Any future conversion or change in land use status is to be reviewed through a transparent and consultative process which involves both
non-government stakeholders and inter-departmental dialogue within Government. to avoid unduly penalizing those with conversion
applications presently in process, the Government will publish a list of all such applications and subject them to public review prior to final
approval.
Implemient a mechanism for rationalizing
state forest boundaries, taking into
account existing forest cover.
Revise concession boundaries in
accordance with the new permanent
production forest boundaries and
.___________________________________________________    ______________________   regulatory requirements.
41



MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Note: Board conditions -- in bold and italic -- have been fulfilled. Refer to Table 2. List of Conditions of Effectiveness in Section 4,
Other policy actions have also been implemented or are on-going within the framework of the overall reform program supported by PRSL II.
Objective        At end-December 1998                        TFirst Quarter 1999                         Second Quarter 1999                       Third Quarter 1999 and beyond-      j
Initiate                                                       Using the stakeholders consultative process defined above, draft a community forcst  Implement new community participation
provisionsfor                                                  participation regulation,, defining clear and transparent processes which:        arrangements for forests.
improved                                                          i.       establish equitable representative organizations;
participation by                                                  ii.      establish terms and conditions for community participation in benefits from,
local                                                                and management of, the forests;
communities in                                                 protect the interests of local communities in forest use program.
forest use and
management
Strengthen       New Environmental Law (WU23.97) issued.       Established implementation regulationsfor    Establish implementing regulations for at    Establish all other implementing
overall                                                       priority items under the new environmental   least four more functions under the new  regulations for the new Environmental
environmental                                                 law, including hazardous waster            Environmental Law,                      Law.
management.                                                    management and marine pollution control.
Ensure           Restricted new imported and large domestic boats   Maintain restriction until a new monitoring
sustainable      to the EEZ until a new monitoring and control  and control system is in place.
fisheries         system is in place.
management.
Improve water                                                                                                                                    Formulated National Water Resources
resource                                                                                                                                         Policy and action plan for its
management                                                                                                                                       implementation.
Established an apex national body for
water sector policy formulation, guidance
and strategic planning.
Improve air                                                    Established an Inter-Agency Committee to                                          Implement pricing changes to promote use
quality,                                                       develop and oversee the implementation of a                                       of cleaner fuels.
short-term action plan for reducing air
pollution *om petroleum fuels.
42



