Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4470 IND
Loan Agreement
(Second Policy Reform Support Loan)
between the
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 28, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4470 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 28, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank): 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 21, 1999 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank; and  
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
as hereinafter provided; 
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Export-Import Bank of Japan (Eximbank) intend to 
enter into a loan agreement whereby Eximbank will make a loan to the Borrower in a 
principal amount equivalent to $100,000,000 (the Eximbank Loan) in support of the 
Program on terms and conditions to be agreed;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan 
Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General 
Conditions”; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and  
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing April 
1 and ending March 31. 
(b)
“Rupiah” and “Rp” mean the currency of the Borrower.
(c)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
hundred million dollars ($500,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section and to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall be 
entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of the 
Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
Page  3
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 29, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1 %) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect.
(b)       The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
Page  4
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the Eximbank Loan shall have 
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof; provided that this 
Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that such prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement.
ARTICLE V 
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
C/O Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  5
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Dorodjatun Kuntjoro-Jakti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Julian Schweitzer
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728.43                  -
Tobacco processing machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
Page  6
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt  or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
Page  7
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Page  8
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October, 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 3 
Program of Actions Taken by the Borrower 
A. 
Maintaining an appropriate macro-economic policy framework
 
1.
An appropriate macro-economic policy framework, consistent with the objectives 
of the Program, as determined on the basis of indicators agreed to by the Borrower and 
the Bank, has been maintained. 
2.
A Fiscal Year 1999 – 2000 fiscal budget has been approved by Parliament, with 
development expenditure levels and sectoral allocations acceptable to the Bank. The 
Borrower has established social safety net expenditure allocations (by program) within 
the framework of  said budget, acceptable to the Bank.
B.  
Reforming the banking sector and facilitating corporate and debt restructuring 
1.
 The Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency (IBRA) has been provided with adequate 
financial resources and legal powers to carry out its mandate to restructure and/or 
resolve illiquid and insolvent banks.
2.
The Borrower has taken the following actions with respect to private banks, 
excluding those banks that the Borrower formally took decisions to close in April and 
in August 1998 (the “frozen” banks): thirty-eight banks have been closed, seven banks 
nationalized, and nine banks have been identified as eligible for recapitalization, in 
each case using a transparent, consistent and otherwise internationally acceptable 
standard of practice.
3.
IBRA has assumed management control of the ten “frozen” banks and these banks 
are in the process of being liquidated.  All “frozen” banks whose shares are publicly 
traded have been de-listed. Sales of assets other than loans commenced in December 
1998 and legal title of all loans of the “frozen” banks has been transferred to the 
Asset Management Unit (AMU) of IBRA. 
4.
Clear ownership of, and governance procedures for, the state banks have been 
established.  A resolution plan for four state banks to integrate under Bank Mandiri 
has been adopted and the process of establishing a centralized credit risk unit in 
Bank Mandiri has commenced.
5.
Legal title to “Category 5” loans, with a face value in excess of 5 billion 
rupiah from the 7 state banks, has been transferred to the AMU. 
6.
The Jakarta Initiative Task Force has been established. 
7.
A one-stop mechanism to facilitate approvals for corporate restructuring has 
been established. 
8.
Restrictions on debt-equity conversions have been removed and tax neutrality for 
mergers has been provided to facilitate corporate restructuring. 
C.  
Improving governance and increasing transparency and efficiency 
1.
A draft Law about the Eradication of Corruption Criminal Acts, which provides, 
inter alia, for increased penalties in the event of convictions for criminal acts of 
Page  9
corruption, and a draft Law Regarding State Administrators who are free from 
Corruption, Collusion and Nepotism, which provides, inter alia, for the establishment 
of a permanent body for investigating alleged corruption involving public officials 
and the judiciary, have been submitted to Parliament.  
2.
Drafts acceptable to the Bank for the proposed Law regarding Fiscal Equalization 
between the Central Government and Regional Governments and the proposed Law regarding 
Regional Administration  have been submitted to Parliament.
3.
A master plan for the reform of state-owned enterprises has been published and 
disseminated. 
4.
A draft Oil and Gas Law, acceptable to the Bank, has been submitted to 
Parliament. 
5.
Export taxes on logs, sawn timber and minerals have been reduced to a maximum of 
20 percent. 
6.
Implementing regulations, acceptable to the Bank, for concession management and 
operations in permanent production forest, have been circulated for stakeholder 
comment; and the transparent reporting of independent forest operation inspection 
teams has been mandated in concession areas. \0c
7.
The Monopoly Practices and Unhealthy Competition Law has been enacted. 
8.
Implementing rules, acceptable to the Bank, under the Environmental Management 
Law of 1997 for hazardous waste management and marine pollution, have been issued.
