Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16585
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN 3264-HU)
May 30, 1997
Energy, Environment, Transport
and Telecommunications Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Forints per US$)
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
US$1.00 - Ft    63.2   74.7   79.0   91.9   105.2  125.7  148.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEL           -      Direct Exchange (telephone) Line
EBRD          -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB           -      European Investment Bank (Luxembourg)
FYP           -      Five Year Plan
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
GOH           -      Government of Hungary
ICB           -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
IFC           -      International Finance Corporation
MBs           -      Megabytes
MIS           -      Management Information System
MP            -      Magyar Posta
MTCC          -      Ministry of Transport, Communications and Construction
MTCW          -      Ministry of Transport, Communications and Water Management
(Successor to MTCC)
Matav/HTC    -       Magyar Tavko5zlesi Vallalat
PCO           -      Public Call Office
TC            -      Telecommunications
HUNGARY - FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January 1 - December 31
i.e., "Hungarian Telecommunications Company (HTC) which was the Borrower under Loan 3264-HU and the
successor to MP for Telecommunications as of 1/1/90.
Vice President                    :     Johannes Linn
Director (Acting)                 :     Hans Apitz
Division Chief/Manager (Acting)  :      Henk Busz
Staff Member                      :    Eloy Vidal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary             ............... i
Part I      Project Implementation Assessment              .I
A. Background and Statement/ Evaluation of Objectives    . I
B. Achievement of Objectives               .4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project        .9
D. Project Sustainability .l 
E. Bank Performance .12
F. Borrower Performance                 .13
G. Assessment of Outcome                 .13
H. Future Operation .13
1. Key Lessons Learned .14
Part II:  Statistical Tables                     .15
Table 1    Summary of Assessment ................         16
Table 2  Related Bank Loans                .17
Table 3  Project Timetable                .18
Table 4    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated
and Actual                  .18
Table 5   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .19
Table 6   Key Indicators for Project Operation .20
Table 7    Studies Included in Project .21
Table 8A  Project Costs ..........................        23
Table 8B  Project Financing ..........................    24
Table 9   Economic Costs and Benefits .25
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants .26
Table 11  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements . 27
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .27
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions .28
Appendices:
A: Mission's Aide Memoire ..........................     29
B: Borrower Contribution to the ICR .........................  42
C: Map .........................                         45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 3264-HU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Telecommunications Project in
Hungary, for which Loan 3264-HU in the amount of US$150 million was approved on October 9, 1990, and
made effective on January 4, 1991.
The Loan was closed on June 30, 1996, the original closing date. The last disbursement took place
on November 30, 1995. At the Borrower's request resulting from project cost savings, US$40 million of the
loan amount was canceled on April 9, 1996. Upon return of the unused funds of the Special Account, the
disbursed amount from the loan was adjusted to a total of US$87.2 million equivalent on July 10, 1996, at
which date an undisbursed balance of US$22.8 million was also canceled. Co-financing for the project was
provided by EIB, EBRD and commercial loans for the foreign exchange costs and by Matav for local costs.
On December 20, 1996, the Borrower prepaid the outstanding amount of the Loan adjusted to US$76.7
million at that time and the related Loan and Guarantee Agreements dated October 29, 1990 were formally
terminated on January 31, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Yoshihiko Kawamura of the Telecommunications and Informatics
Division (IENTI), and Marcel Scoffier, consultant.  It was reviewed by James Bond, Chief,
Telecommunications and Informatics Division (IENTI), Henk Busz, Acting Chief (EC2ET) and Franz Kaps,
Operations Adviser (EC2DR).
The ICR is based on information available in the project files and its preparation was begun during
the Bank's final supervision/completion mission to Budapest in July 1996. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by providing documentary information and presenting views reflected in the
mission's Aide-Memoire (Appendix A), and summarizing its own evaluation of the project's execution in
Appendix B.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN 3264-KU)
Evaluation Summary
Background
1.    For a number of years, the Hungarian Government (GOH) gave low priority to telecommunications
(TC), in particular, when the services were operated by Magyar Posta (MP) as a Departmental Directorate of
the Ministry of Transport and, from 1983, as a State Enterprise. MP was entrusted with the national
monopolies for postal, broadcasting and TC services. The approach changed with the adoption of the
1980's Hungarian Economic Reform Program which emphasized decentralization, greater autonomy and
flexibility for enterprises, reliance on market factors and increased free trade and export activities. The
country's economic and planning authorities recognized that an efficient and reliable TC system, with
adequate capacity, capabilities and coverage was a pre-requisite for economic growth and the goals of the
reform program. To this effect, the country's insufficient, obsolete and rundown TC facilities had to be
modernized and largely expanded, and the sector organization had to be strengthened and restructured for its
efficient operation.
2.    In line with GOH's priority approach to modernize and develop the TC infrastructure, the amounts
allocated to sector development in 1985 under the Seventh Five Year Plan (FYP 1986-90) were twice those
of previous Sixth FYP, and the amounts considered for the 1991-94 program period, at the early transition
phase of the country's economy, were also again about twice those of the Seventh FYP. These amounts
increased from about US$0.4 to 0.8 and 1.5 billion for the respective periods, the foreign exchange
component accounting for about 25% for the purchase of installations using modern technology not
available in Hungary. There was little or inadequate external financing for the related programs and the
assistance needed for their implementation. At GOH's request, the Bank has been involved since 1986 in
the financing of such efforts, through two successive loans: (i) Loan 2847-HU of US$70 million for the First
Telecommunications Project which was implemented from 1987 to 1993; and (ii) Loan 3264-HU of US$150
million which is the subject of this ICR and was implemented from 1991 to 1996. Other external co-
financing sources were involved to cope with the very high investment requirements of both projects.
3.    The two loans and projects for telecommunications in Hungary were made with the continued
development objectives, adapted to the operational and institutional content evolving with time, of (i)
assisting the country's main TC operating entity in modernizing and expanding the systems under two
successive enlarged development programs, and (ii) simultaneously ensuring the transition, in feasible steps,
from Government type operation of a monopolistic utility toward autonomous and efficient commercial type
operation of the services, with separate authorities for the service provision and regulatory functions.
4.    The First TC Project was successfully implemented and met, or exceeded in many aspects, its
physical development and institution building objectives. The project broke the ground for in-depth Bank
work in Telecommunications in Hungary. During its implementation, in January 1990, GOH split MP's
operations into three parts, under separate autonomous entities for posts, broadcasting and
telecommunications. The TC operations were entrusted to the Hungarian Telecommunications Company
(HTC/Matav). This was in line with the recommendations from the technical assistance under the project,
which aimed at increasing the efficiency, autonomy and commercial orientation of MP's



ii
telecommunications branch. It also appeared that the TC sector required faster and greatly enlarged
development of the systems to cope with the growing demand and to best benefit from new technology.
Also, a further structural reform was needed to strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework of the
sector by introducing competition in selected segments.
5.     The second project was prepared and appraised in 1989, when GOH requested that the Bank
continue its support to sector development and institutional improvement in line with the worldwide
evolving approach to public TC management and operations. Loan 3264-HU for the project was approved
and signed in October 1990. The assessment of its implementation and results is summarized hereinafter.
Project Development Objectives
6.     The primary development objectives of the project were to assist Matav, the Borrower, with
Government's Guarantee, to carry out over the period 1991-1993 its program of investment and institutional
development to rehabilitate, modernize and expand the TC facilities and to strengthen its management and
operation.
7.     Two main components were included in the project to meet the above objectives: (a) a physical
component consisting of local switching and subscribers lines capacities (520,000 lines), a digital overlay
trunk network and two international satellite communications stations under a first phase of the
digitalization strategy, and miscellaneous rural, mobile, telex/data and public call station facilities; and (b)
an institutional component to strengthen Matav's market and commercial orientation, rationalize tariffs and
develop an institutional and regulatory framework for the sector by introducing competition into selected
portions of the services.
8.     The achievement of the investment objectives were supported by the technical assistance and
studies from the first project, advising on digitalization strategy and network planning, traffic engineering
and centralized operation and maintenance of the networks. For the institutional objectives, studies on tariff
structure, management information system, accounting, service marketing and regulatory options were
available and their application would be supported by additional assistance under the project. A major
supporting factor was also that the Loan Agreement included a commitment of Matav to reconstitute itself
as a joint-stock company by 1991, together with a time-bound Action Plan to further develop its
organization, management and operations. With regard to sector restructuring, the Guarantee Agreement
included a commitment of GOH to establish an appropriate sector strategy by 1991 and then implement that
strategy within a short period of time.
Implementation Experience and Results
9.     Construction Program. The physical targets of the investment program were over-fulfilled during
the project period. As a whole, network expansion and modernization achievements exceeded initial targets
by about 40%. The program was enlarged following Matav's corporatization and privatization. During the
initial 1991-93 three year period of the program, 650,000 main exchange lines were installed compared to
the 520,000 lines forecast at appraisal. From 1991 to 1996, the capacities installed were about 1.35 million
main exchange lines. When all new facilities became operational in 1996, about 1.15 million new
subscribers had been connected at an average yearly growth rate of 15%, which compares with about 11%
forecast at appraisal. The pace of replacement of old installations also increased. The operational capacity
and service quality of all segments of the TC systems also greatly improved.



iii
10.   Institution Building and Sector Reform. The institutional, financial, technical and training objectives
of the Action Plan for strengthening Matav's management and organization were fully implemented within
the given timeframe. GOH implemented major steps in the restructuring and reform of the TC sector in
Hungary and made progress toward the establishment of a framework for privatization. Matav became a
joint-stock company in December 1991. A new Telecommunications Law was enacted in 1992. A tariff
decree was passed in 1993 and, under international public tendering, Magyar Com, a joint-venture of
Deutsche Telekom and Ameritech, was awarded 30% of Matav's shares in December 1993 and a concession
for the countrywide international and inter-urban services and local service in selected large primary areas.
Two years later, Magyar Com purchased an additional 37% of Matav stock increasing its ownership to 67%.
An in-depth reorganization of Matav (Limited) as a corporate business and commercial operation took place
during the 1991-1995 period of its privatization. GOH political will and determination in developing and
implementing the reform process of its major utilities enabled to fully reach, or even exceed, the
institutional development objectives of the project.
Bank and Borrower Performance
11.   The performance of both the Borrower and the Bank has been satisfactory under the project and the
Government's and Matav's relationship with the Bank was good and fruitful throughout project preparation
and implementation.
Project Sustainability and Assessment of Outcome
12.   Sustainability. All the physical, organizational and institutional objectives of the project were
thoroughly accomplished and exceeded in several aspects. New installations are in satisfactory and
productive operation. Matav is currently preparing its operational, developmental and business plans for the
next four years and intends to maintain the annual growth rate of the services it provides, so that unsatisfied
demand would taper and waiting lists disappear shortly. All these aspects confirm the sustainability of the
project and its positive impact.
13.   Assessment of Outcome. The project outcome is highly satisfactory. Very important steps were
made in sector development, organization and management, and in the reform of the Hungarian TC sector's
overall structural and regulatory set-up during the five-year period of the project. This case reflects
GOH's determination during the transition phase of the country's economy to realize a feasible
reform program for a major public utility.
Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned
14.   The main findings and lessons learnedfrom the Project are summarized below:
(a) The decade-long participation of the Bank in the Hungarian TC sector had a major, profound
and durable impact on the sector's development, its organization and institutional improvement.
(b) The core components of the first and second TC projects in Hungary targeted the physical
investment necessary to modernize and expand the networks. A small percentage of the loan
proceeds were for technical assistance and studies in selected fields of institution-building. The
Borrower's cooperation and understanding of the benefits which could accrue from the
institutional components resulted in major organizational improvement and profound
institutional reforms.



iv
(c) The timing of the second project, during which the digitalization strategy proposed under the
first was implemented, made it possible to best take advantage of the new digital technology in
planning and construction of the systems and best benefit, through the ICB procedure, from
worldwide falling costs of equipment.
(d) The continuity in the staff involved in the dialogue with the Hungarian authorities greatly
facilitated the progress of both strengthening sector management and overall reform.
(e) The second project had an important role in sector management, organization and reform even
though the loan itself was directed primarily at financing Matav's development and
commercialization. Appropriately timed provision under the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
induced actions on reform in these fields. It is worthwhile to emphasize that supporting the
development and organization of the main TC operator of a government-owned public utility,
through badly needed investment lending can be highly instrumental in the actual reform and
privatization of the sector when there is the political will to engage and implement the reform
process.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 3264-HU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.          Background and Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
Background
1.    The Second Telecommunications Project in Hungary which was supported by the $150.0
million Bank Loan 3264-HU, was implemented from 1991 to 1996 by the Hungarian
Telecommunications Company (HTC) as Borrower, under the Guarantee of the Republic of
Hungary. HTC or Matav, the abbreviation from the company's statutory name of Magyar
Tavkozlesi Vallalat - was created in January 1990, as a State Enterprise (SE) for providing the
public telecommunications services in the country, operating as a monopoly under the 1964
Posts and Telecommunications Law.
2.    Matav had managerial, operational and financial autonomy, and its own budget. It
provided and operated services under the jurisdiction and guidance of the Ministry of Transport,
Communications and Water Management (MTCW) with regard to telecommunications policy
and regulatory matters. It was the successor for public telecommunications to Magyar Posta
(MP), a state enterprise established in 1983 and entrusted with national monopoly for postal,
broadcasting and telecommunications services, with its own budget and legal authority, under
the Minister in charge of Communications, who was also MP's President. Prior to 1983, MP's
responsibilities and operations were organized in Departmental Directorates, as parts of the
Ministry of Transport under the Government budget. MP's internal reorganization as a State
Enterprise aimed at becoming more commercially-oriented and efficient and separating telecoms
activities (operations, finances and development) from other activities (postal services,
broadcasting and distribution of press), which were combined in their departmental statute. At
Matav's creation, MP's operations were split into three parts and organized as separate entities.
3.    For a number of years, the Hungarian Government (GOH) gave low priority to
telecommunications, in particular when the services were under MP's departmental set-up. As a
result, the system was sparse, obsolete, rundown, geographically unbalanced and inferior to those
of other neighboring European countries at similar levels of development. The approach
changed with the adoption of the 1980's Hungarian Economic Reform Program which
emphasized decentralization, greater autonomy and flexibility for enterprises, reliance on market
signals and factors, and increased exports. The country's economic and planning authorities
recognized that an efficient and reliable telecommunications system, with adequate capacity and
capabilities, was a pre-requisite for economic growth and the goals of the reform program. To
this effect, the country's telecommunications facilities had to be modernized and expanded, and
the sector organization and operation had to be reformed and restructured.
4.    Previous Bank Activities and Experience in the Sector. In line with GOH's priority
approach to developing the TC infrastructure, about US$720 million equivalent were allocated



2
and spent to modernize and expand the systems and improve sector organizations in the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (FYP, 1986-90). This was double the amount in the Sixth FYP. The Bank has
been involved in the financing of this effort through Loan 2847-HU of US$70 million for the
First Telecommunications Project. The main objective of the project, implemented from 1987 to
1993, was to contribute to the expansion and modernization of major facilities, also providing
extensive technical assistance for institution building and preparation of sector restructuring.
Through the project, the Bank supported the creation of a team of Government and HTC experts
to prepare a study of structural and regulatory options. The loan was fully disbursed and
completed on time. Implementation was satisfactory and the project met its objectives (PCR No.
14727 of June 30, 1995).
5.    During the First Project period and following Matav's creation in 1990, it appeared that
the TC sector required faster and increased development of the systems and further structural
reform to improve and commercialize its overall operations and approach to development, in
harnony with the rest of Europe and the worldwide trend toward liberalized provision of TC
services under appropriate regulatory policies. These requirements were emphasized in a World
Bank TC Infrastructure Survey conducted in 1989 (Report No. 7775-HU). GOH had also
prepared an ambitious Ten-Year TC Development Concept Program, from 1991 to 2000, to
sustain the country's overall economic development. The overall goal of the program was to
achieve by around 2005, a rough parity with the West European average of about 40-45 direct
telephone exchange lines (DELs) in service per 100 inhabitants, with adequate domestic and
international interconnection. This compared with a telephone service density of only about 10
DELs, or 960,000 connected subscribers in 1990.
6.    The successful First TC  Project broke ground for the Bank's work in the
Telecommunications in Hungary. As a result, GOH requested in 1990 that the Bank continue to
support sector development, organizational improvement and structural reform during Matav's
first 4-year expansion program for 1991-94 which was an initial stage of the 10-year sectoral
program. The Second TC Project, which is the subject of this ICR, was prepared and appraised
in 1990, shortly after Matav's creation and in conjunction with the implementation of the First
Project with the view to sustain and broaden its impact. Given the size of the program, other
multilateral and foreign agencies were also involved in project preparation and prepared to
finance selected parts of the program.
Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
7.    Project Development Objectives. The principal development objectives of the project
were to assist Matav, the Borrower, with Government's Guarantee, in carrying out its program of
investment and institutional development over the period 1991-1993 to rehabilitate and expand
its telecommunications facilities and strengthen its management and operations. This was in
accordance with both GOH's primary objective of rapidly developing and improving the
telecommunications industry as a pre-requisite for economic growth, and with the main goals
and determinants of the proposed 10-year TC Development Plan. The short-term program
supported by the project was an initial feasible phase of investment under the Plan, following
Matav's establishment as the autonomous operator for public TC in Hungary.
8.    Summary Project Description. To meet these objectives, the project comprised two
main elements: physical investment program to improve and expand the TC networks and
services, and the strengthening and institution-building of the Borrower's management,



3
organization and operations. The physical components included: (1) an overlay digital long-
distance network using optical fiber (OF) cables with switching interconnection facilities; (2)
international TC network, including two satellite earth stations, gateway exchange (2000
circuits) and expanded telex and data circuits; (3) local switching capacities (520,000 exchange
lines) and associated local networks and subscribers plant; (4) rural networks with OF and
microwave transmission systems and electronic exchanges; (5) an expanded mobile radio-
telephone network (13,200 subscribers); (6) expanded telex and data services (12,000 new
users); (7) public pay phones (2,000 stations); and (8) operation and maintenance facilities to
support operational efficiency. The institution-building part included the development and
implementation of: (1) a master plan for the management and development of human resources,
including staff incentive structures; (2) new management information and commercial
accounting systems; (3) a marketing strategy and competitive procurement system; (4) an
optimal digitalization strategy; (5) measures to improve the efficiency of investments in the
networks and of the utilization of all facilities, including quality control systems; and (6) related
studies and staff training in the development, operation, commercialization and marketing of
new services and the applications of new TC technology. The project was expected to be
completed by December 31, 1995.
9.    The two projects and loans for telecommunications in Hungary were made in the
continued context of assisting the country and the main TC operating entity in modernizing and
developing the systems under two successive development programs for the periods 1986-90 and
1991-1993 and simultaneously ensuring the transition in feasible steps from Government type
operation of a monopolistic utility toward autonomous commercial operations of the services,
with separate authorities in charge of the regulatory and service provision functions. Along with
other major co-financing partners, both loans assisted in coping with the very high requirements
of modernizing outdated networks and largely expanding them to better satisfy demand and
support economic growth. Institutionally, the first project resulted in the split of Magyar Posta's
operations (MP) into separate entities for posts, broadcasting and telecommunications, the latter
being reconstituted as a commercial company (Matav) as of January 1, 1990. This initiated
further reforms of the sector within GOH's framework of actions to restructure major public
utilities. The second project aimed both at strengthening and improving Matav's capabilities as
an autonomous commercial operator, and at strongly stimulating GOH toward the prompt
development and implementation of an in-depth sector reform strategy to corporatize Matav and
to open the TC services to competition under an appropriate regulatory set-up. Both projects can
be considered as a continuous complementary operation, the phase of operational changes of the
first creating the basis for sustaining the organizational and reform phase of the second.
10.   Evaluation of Objectives. As a whole, the objectives and components of the second
project were relevant and feasible in consideration of the constrained development stage and
evolving organizational status of the TC sector in Hungary, of GOH's targets and of Matav's
capabilities when it was created. One may also note that, at the time of project inception, the
worldwide trend toward liberalization, opening to competition and operation of the TC sector in
adequate regulatory set-up was just only starting, in particular, in Europe and the former Eastern
bloc countries.



4
B.    Achievement of Objectives
Institutional and Management Improvement
11.   Improvements and changes of great importance in the institutional set-up, management,
organization and operations of the telecommunications sector in Hungary took place during the
implementation periods of the first and second Bank projects, from 1987 to 1993 and 1991 to
1995, respectively. Both projects included appropriate assistance and covenants for institutional,
organizational and operational improvements to increase the efficiency, autonomy and
commercial orientation of the telecommunications activities in a competitive context. In fact,
the sector's complete reform, restructuring and opening to competition were realized in three
main stages over the two projects periods, as detailed below.
12.   Institutionally, the main achievements were: (i) before 1990, under the first project and
during preparation of the second project and of a WB Telecommunications Infrastructure
Survey, the operations of Magyar Posta (MP) were split. The operational, managerial, and
financial function of posts, broadcasting, and telecommunications were entrusted to separate
autonomous state enterprises (HTC/Matav for Telecommunications). The sector policy and
regulatory responsibilities remained with GOH under newly created authorities; (ii) from 1990 IQ
1993, during completion of the first and start-up of the second projects, GOH decided on
privatization and market opening targets for telecommunications (in line with its public utilities
reform program). Matav became a joint-stock company and a new telecommunications law and
tariff decree were enacted; and, in December 1993, 30% of Matav's shares and its 25 year
concession for exclusive provision of international long-distance telephone service in Hungary
and local service in major cities and 29 primary areas, were awarded through public tendering to
Magyar Com, a joint venture of Deutsche Telekom and Ameritech; (iii) in March 1994: 13 of the
other 25 primary areas for local telephone service were awarded to new local operators (with
foreign participation) and the remaining 10 areas were also awarded to Matav; finally, (iv) in
December 1995, in a second phase of Matav's privatization, Magyar Com purchased an
additional 37% of Matav Stock from the State Holding Company increasing its ownership to
67%. GOH retained a golden share in Matav's ownership and the concessions included an 8-
year exclusivity for the provision of basic telephone services. Further details on the major steps
in the reform process of the Hungarian TC sector are given in Part II, Appendix A (Attachment 2
to the Aide Memoire).
13.   The second project under Loan 3264-HfU had an important role in sector reform and
institution building of the main TC operator even so the loan itself, like the first one, was
directed primarily to financing Matav's development program and commercialization. Based on
experience from the first project and on the findings and recommendations of the WB
Telecommunications Infrastructure Survey made in 1989, the Loan Agreement included a time
bound commitment of Matav to reconstitute itself as a joint-stock company under the laws of the
guarantor; and the Guarantee Agreement, committed the Guarantor to establish an appropriate
sector reform strategy and then implement that strategy within a short period of time. One of the
strengths of this approach was that it provided a real incentive without dictating the actual line to
be taken. This was very appropriate because the project was prepared at a time when the
worldwide debate on public telecommunications policy and reform towards greater deregulation,
opening to competition and private sector participation was at its very early stages. GOH was, at
that time, actively considering various approaches to reform the major public utilities. In the
end, and based on GOH's own initiative and decision making, telecommunications became the
first government-owned utility to be privatized and Matav was the first public TC operator to be
privatized in Central and Eastern Europe.



5
14.   The above indicates that all institutional development objectives of the project were
achieved, even beyond the original targets with regard to the re-structuring and reform of the
telecommunications sub-sector in Hungary.  The improvement of Matav's organization,
management and operations, and the strengthening of its operational, developmental and
financial capability were achieved by introducing commercial management practices, through
effective statutory and organizational changes, and with the aid of the technical assistance and
training. With regard to sector reform, the determination and persistence of GOH and the
involved parties in designing a sector strategy to improve the operations and financing of the TC
sub-sector, and a program to implement it, resulted in an advanced stage of privatization of the
operating entities for basic services, and the opening to competition and private operation of the
value-added and other services. These are remarkable achievements, the impact of which is
already tangible in the sector operations, development and finances and beneficial to the
country's economy.
Network Expansion and Improvement of the Quality of Service
15.   Construction Program.  The project's physical objectives have been essentially
completed and Matav has exceeded many of the original performance targets. Following its
establishment as ajoint-stock company in 1991, and its privatization for 30% ownership in 1993,
Matav was able to enlarge its investment program, adjusting it to the new technology and prices
of the related equipment, thus increasing the planned rates of growth and modernization of its
facilities and better satisfying the large and growing demand for services. The changes in
Matav's construction program resulted, in particular, from: (i) improved development planning
and implementation capabilities of the company, from both the technical assistance and the
experience acquired under the first and second Bank projects; (ii) the cost savings resulting from
worldwide price reductions on telecommunications equipment due to technological
developments, large scale production and competition; (iii) the changing coverage of Matav's
activities under its concession for provision of service in lesser but densely populated, local
areas, and the emergence of other licensed operators for the provision of mobile and value-added
services ; and (iv) improved access to international capital markets, during and after Matav's
privatization.
16.   As a whole, network expansion achievements exceeded initial targets by about 40%.
Key performance indicators for project implementation are given in Table 5 of Part ll. From
1991 to 1996, when the new facilities from the enlarged program became operational, Matav
connected 1.15 million new subscribers at an overall growth rate of about 15% per annum, which
compares with about 11% planned at time of appraisal. As a result, the density of phone lines
increased from 9.6% of population (end 1990) to an impressive 28.1% (end of 1996), compared
with an appraisal plan of 19%. The capacities installed were about 1.35 million local and 0.23
million trunk exchange lines of switching equipment, and 2,700 kms of optical fiber (OF) cable
with digital transmission equipment, which compared to initial plans of 1.13 and 0.16 million
lines and 1,400 kms of cable, respectively. The pace of replacement of existing out-of-date
installations, such as manual and electromechanical exchanges and analog transmission cables,
was increased. As a result, about 70% of the switching and transmission facilities are currently
being operated using digital equipment, compared with a planned rate of about 40%. Also, over
20,000 public telephones covering the whole of Hungary, 50% of which are card phones, were
installed and 4,500 new data subscribers were connected, about double the available capacity.
Further description of the related project's components and their implementation costs and
financing are given in Part II, Attachment I to Appendix A.



6
17.   Quality of Service and Staff Productivity.  Before implementing the construction
program of the project, the quality of services provided by MP's telecommunications network
was rather poor and insufficient, due to obsolescence and the lack of installations. Significant
improvements resulted from the expansion and modernization of the facilities under the
program. (Table 5 in Part II gives data on the usual indicators of the quality of performance for
the telephone network and the improvements during the project period.) The 1991 average of
more than I fault per connected line every year reflected serious problems of reliability in the
local networks. This was improved to one fault every three years in 1996. The effective calling
rates for local, national long distance and international incoming calls improved from the 55%,
45% and 35% mediocre levels in 1991 and reached the targeted levels of 61%, 50% and 47% in
1996, respectively. This will no doubt further improve when the centralized maintenance and
operations support systems now being installed will be operational at the end of 1997. The
levels which are internationally observed in quality networks are likely to be reached by then.
With regard to staff productivity, the number of employees per 1,000 DELs was 8.3 at the end of
1996 compared to 22 at the beginning of the project. This is a satisfactory achievement,
surpassing the original target of 12 and ranking Matav, internationally, as an efficient TC
operator.
18.   Cost of the Project. At project appraisal, the Bank participated in the financing of a time
slice of Matav's investment program for the period 1991-1993. As indicated in paras. 15 and 16
above, this initial program was adjusted and enlarged following Matav's establishment as a joint-
stock company in 1991, its partial privatization in 1993, the opening of segments of the TC
sector such as mobile telephony and terminal installations to other operators, and the rapidly
evolving TC technology and prices of equipment. The project's components were revised
accordingly for implementation from 1991 to 1995, the exchange lines capacities to be installed
being almost tripled and the capacities of the long distance, international and rural networks
more than doubled. The cost of the project was estimated to be US$1344.7 million at appraisal,
for a forcasted installation of 520,000 line units. The actual cost of the 1,230,000 line units and
associated networks which were installed from 1991 to 1995 is US$2034.1 million. (Table 8A in
Part II details the costs of the main project components, as appraised under the 1991-93 time
slice and implemented under the enlarged program.) Given the changes which have occurred, a
detailed cost comparison of each project component would not be significant. However, a
comparison of the average cost per line unit installed between appraisal and implementation,
which were US$2586 and US$1654 per line respectively, illustrates the overall evolution of the
construction costs during project implementation, the actual costs being only about 60% of those
in 1990. Such substantial cost savings were the result of worldwide price reductions in
telecommunications equipment made possible by technological development and economies of
scale in production, combined with competitive procurement and efficient planning on the part
of the borrower. In deducting the custom duties on imported equipment and miscellaneous taxes
paid by Matav, estimated at about 7%, the average cost per line of US$1430 compares with the
worldwide averages situated between US$1,200 and US$1,600.
19.   Procurement. Matav's performance on procurement under the project was satisfactory.
Most of the initial procurement of the Bank's loan was handled by Matav's tender office and its
staff and agent in continuation of the procedure from  the first project.  Subsequently,
international procurement was effectively managed by a specialized organization which was
separated from traditional internal procurement unit of the company. In 1992, Matav created its
own special company, "Inteltrade", to handle mostly international procurement. Due, in part, to
this decision, no particular difficulties or delays were encountered in the disbursement against



7
applications for withdrawals and calls on the special account of the loan. The procurement
process was kept on schedule throughout the project also by building a relationship of trust with
suppliers proven to have the highly specialized skills and experiences required.
20.   Disbursements.  The cumulative estimated and actual disbursements from the loan
proceeds during the 1991-1996 project period are detailed in Part II, Table 4. Matav actually
utilized US$87.2 million from the original loan amount of US$150 million. The disbursement
categories in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement were revised to reflect the usage of funds for the
Bank financed items under Matav's adjusted construction program. Of the remaining US$110
million, US$89.55 million was disbursed, but this amount included an outstanding special
account balance of about US$2.335 million. The loan closed in June 1996, and in July 1996,
Matav transferred the outstanding special account balance to the Bank. A final unutilized
amount of US$22.8 million (US$1 10 million minus US$87.2 million) was canceled at loan
closing. In total, about US$62.8 million of the original loan amount was not utilized. The main
factors which reduced or increased the loan requirements are detailed in Part II, Annex 2 to
Appendix A. These were mostly related to savings from falling prices of equipment, changes in
project design increasing or decreasing the costs of some project items, the shifts of financing
between Bank loans for the first and second projects, and use of alternative financing, which
resulted in the above reduction in amount of the loan funds required. In general, Matav
responded to the changing needs for sector development by appropriately allocating the available
financial resources in ways that minimized development costs.
Improvement of Financial Performance
21.   Project Financing. Project Financing, as estimated at appraisal and actual is detailed in
Part II, Table 8B. The actual cost of the project, as implemented from 1991 to 1995 under the
enlarged Matav's construction program, exceeded the initial estimated cost by about US$690
million, of which US$70 million were foreign costs and US$620 million, local costs. The
additional external resources, including the lesser usage of Bank funds from Loan 3264-HU,
were obtained through increased supplier credits, commercial borrowings, investment loans and
equity contribution. The additional domestic resources were obtained from increased domestic
borrowings and Matav's internal cash generation. The latter represented 52%, (i.e. about US$1
billion), of the actual project cost, which compares with the estimated 54% of a lesser total cost
when the project was prepared in 1989/1990.  The above indicates that:  (i)  Matav's
privatization, together with a significant injection of equity (about US$400 million) greatly
improved its access to international and domestic capital markets; and (ii) Matav's operations
and financial results were satisfactorily managed during the project period when the company
was restructured, so as to maintain a substantial contribution to its development.
22.   In December 1996, Matav fully prepaid the outstanding amount under Loan 3264-HU,
thus terminating the related Loan and Guarantee Agreements. This was likely to improve the
company's balance sheet and its debt situation at a time when GOH envisages to further privatize
Matav by selling part of its 27% ownership. Also, in accordance with Matav's concession
contract, the current 67% shareholder MagyarCom must soon reduce its ownership to a bare
majority. All these actions are meant to enlarge the privatization of the main TC operator in
Hungary, leading to the path toward further liberalization and opening up of the sector to
competition, which, in time, will further improve its access to capital markets and make it
possible to maintain an annual investment rate of US$300 to US$400 million over the next few
years, as currently planned by Matav.



8
23.   It is also worthwhile to mention that Matav developed its relations with IFC during the
project period, when the TC sector in Hungary initiated its transition from Government operation
to gradual liberalization and privatization. In 1984, IFC invested US$28.6 million for a 0.99%
share of the Matav equity and subsequently provided a US$100 million syndicated loan which
was recently refunded by new lower cost commercial bank loans to Matav. To further support
the liberalizaton and opening up of the TC sector in Hungary, IFC provided financial assistance
to two newly formed mobile cellular telephone operators (Westel NMT 450 and Westel GSM
900), it invested in the formation of a small independent regional fixed wireline basic service
operator (Papatel) and it also helped set an equity fund (CETI) based in Budapest with the
purpose of providing capital to smaller projects such as paging and independent regional wireline
operators in Hungary and the Region. During these operations, an effective and fruitful
concertation and liaison were maintained between the involved Bank and IFC staff, and with the
local authorities.
24.   Accounting and Financial Management Systems.  Improving the accounting and
financial management system had been identified as key factors to the success of the project.
The Bank agreed to provide the funds necessary for the technical assistance, which was required
in the areas of auditing, accounting (including financial projections), budgeting and cash
management.  This item, however, was later canceled from  Bank funding, and it was
implemented with Matav's own financing. Matav hired a foreign consultancy firm for this
assistance, eventually resulting in the successful introduction of new accounting and financial
management systems compatible with International Standards of Accounting, profit and cost
centers being also established.
25.    Tariff Adjustment. In the past, the rather poor operating performance of Matav was due
to a combination of tariff adjustments which were inadequate to counter inflation and of
insufficient improvement in productivity. Bank-financed consultants proposed a new tariff
structure, the tariff adjustments being based on the domestic Product Price Index (PPI). In 1993,
MTCW issued a decree stipulating the TC rates for 1994 together with a price cap formula
limiting increases for an overall basket of tariffs to the PPI. The formula included a rebalancing
mechanism designed to raise local prices and reduce intemational and long distance prices in line
with costs by about 2002. During 1995, overall tariffs were increased by 10.2% in line with the
July 1994/93 PPI. Separately, in 1995, the government agreed to an increase in residential
connection fees. Tariffs were thus effectively increased or adjusted that Matav could improve its
cash generation both in 1994 and in 1995, and cover, on average, about 52% of its capital
expenditures from internal resources under the project.
26.   Auditing. Annual Audits were carried out by independent qualified external auditors
acceptable to the Bank in accordance with International Accounting Committee Standards.
Audited financial statements and related auditor's reports were submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of each fiscal year, starting with the year 1991. As a result, the transparency
of Matav's performance greatly increased.
27.    Financial Performance and Covenants.   During the project, Matav's financial
performance was good and all the financial covenants agreed with the Bank were observed (see
Tables 5 and 10, Part II). For 1995, all the financial covenants were met. These included a self-
financing ratio of 32.6% (covenant more than 30%); a rate of return on net fixed assets of 12.6%
(covenant equal or more than 10%); and debt service coverage of 1.56 (covenant more than
1.5%).



9
28.    Return on Investment. The financial rate of return based on conservative projections
does not fully reflect the net benefit to the economy from the networks development and
provision of telecommunications services. The reason is that the value of the services is far in
excess of both the cost of providing them and the price they are charged for. A traditional
calculation of the Internal Financial Rate of Return (IFRR) of the project, based on its
implementation and results but not including such external benefits, is presented in Table 9 of
Part II. The actual re-estimated IFRR is 23.94%, while the SAR forecasted rate was 25.60%. By
taking the same assumptions on economic externalities than in the SAR, the project's economic
rate or return would be 32-35%, compared to 33% at appraisal.
29.    Taxes. It is noteworthy that Matav currently enjoys a 100% tax holiday until the end of
1998 and a 20% tax relief for the following five years. This is permitted under a 1991 corporate
tax act allowing certain tax relief to joint venture companies with foreign participation of at least
30%.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
30.    Technological Progress.  Important external factors that positively affected project
implementation, its overall design and cost and the prospects for efficient and satisfactory future
operation were: (i) the rapid technological development, internationally, of digital switching and
transmission equipment; and (ii) the falling cost of such equipment, particularly for large
capacity installations under the project. The relaxation of COCOM restrictions on imports of
advanced digital and space communications technology, effective in 1990, allowed Matav to
plan and implement its modernization and development program in accordance with
international standardization and applied practices.  This, together with the lesser cost of
equipment, enabled Matav to revise the scope of the project far greater network expansion and to
provide better and more reliable services, with facilities requiring less maintenance at lower
operating cost. Also, on an average cost per line unit basis, the savings on the construction costs
of these facilities was about 35% below the initial estimates, which is only indicative because the
realized infrastructure is not directly comparable to the initially planned one.
31.    Capital Market Response to Matav 's Privatization. One important factor that positively
affected project implementation together with the improvement of Matav's Management and
capabilities and the proceeding of TC sector reform in Hungary, was the favorable response of
the international capital market to public tendering of GOH, in December 1993, seeking offers
for part privatization of Matav and for concessions of local telephone service in the 25 primary
areas of the country. The move toward TC privatization was little advanced in Central Europe,
at that time. The conditions of the tenders with regard to foreign participation (up to 30% co-
ownership) and duration of the concession (25 years of which 8 exclusive), as well as Matav's
size with about 2 million main exchange lines satisfactorily operated, were attractive to
telecommunications investors. EBRD and IFC, multilateral investors with already ongoing
lending and investment operations in Hungary, were also interested. The successful bidder was
MagyarCom, a consortium of Deutsche Telecom and Ameritech, the dominant carriers in
Germany and the US Midwest.  With its new partners, Matav drastically improved its
management and the pace of its development during the last two years of project implementation
(Section B above). In December 1995, MagyarCom increased its ownership from 30% to 67%,
GOH retained 28% plus a golden share, moreover specifying at the time that the western



10
telecommunications partners should later float Matav and lower their stake to a bare majority.
This is currently being prepared. GOH is also considering to further lower its stake in Matav. If
soon realized through intemational equity offering, Matav could be the first central European TC
company traded on stock exchanges in foreign countries.
32.   It is also noteworthy to mention that the job market in Hungary could easily provide the
staff specialties at the level required in the sector to enable its successful corporatization and
privatization. Qualified professionals were needed in the new important fields of Matav's
management and operations, such as finance, business, accounting, commercial and marketing
management and practices, as well as procurement, technical planning, maintenance and
operations. Such personnel could be made available from existing or newly hired staff, and
adequately trained to their positions in the restructured enterprise, through the technical
assistance from the project and the field or specialized training organized by the foreign partners.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
33.   The most significant points to emphasize are the determination, perseverance and
consistency of GOH, during the project period, in developing, preparing the actions and their
time schedule, and actually implementing a comprehensive program for the restructuring and
reform of the country's telecommunications sector. The reform program was decided upon and
realized in feasible steps to strengthen and improve the institutional and regulatory framework of
the sector and gradually introduce a competitive commercial basis for its operations and
development. The key features of the program were the privatization of the basic services
provided by Matav, previously MP and the monopolistic state operator, into several companies
and the opening to competition of the mobile and other specialized services. Matav remained the
dominant operator for intemational and long distance services and local service in large districts,
under a 25 year concession (with 8 years of exclusive rights) and possible large foreign
ownership. The program was decided upon and realized in feasible steps which are summarized
in para. 11 to 13 above and in Part II, Annex 2 to Appendix A. All these were in full compliance
with a commitment of the Govemment, in the Guarantee Agreement, to establish an appropriate
sector reform strategy and then implement it in a short period of time. The actual period was
that of the loan from 1991 (when GOH decided to include privatization for the TC sector within
its overall program to reform public utilities) to 1995 at completion of the second phase of
Matav's privatization (67% foreign ownership). Compliance was even beyond the institutional
objectives of the loan itself which were directed primarily to financing Matav's operational
strengthening and commercialization under corporate statute.
34.   It is worthwhile to note the important financial benefits accruing to GOH from the partial
privatization of Matav. MagyarCom the consortium of the two strategic investors, paid
US$1.727 million in total for the acquisition of its majority stake (67%) in Matav and its national
concession. MagyarCom also brought in US$400 million equity injection into Matav. This
represented an indicative cost of US$1,300 per line, at the end of 1995, and is of the order of
magnitude of the construction cost per line under the project. Matav being satisfactorily
managed and operated, and planning important developments in future, GOH is now considering
to further reduce its ownership and float part of its current 27 remaining shares together with
those of MagyarCom which must reduce its participation to a bare majority by 1998. An
international public offering (IPO) is being prepared to this effect.  The reduction of GOH
ownership in Matav below 25% would, however, require an amendment to the 1992 TC Law.
These developments will be interesting to observe, as a further effect of the sector reform under
the project.



11
Factors Generally Subject to Matav Control
35.   Matav successfully managed to overcome the difficulties in the complex and intricate
tasks it was confronted with, establishing its new organizational structure and managerial set-up
as a commercial and business corporation, and simultaneously, adequately planning and
implementing a very large investment program. Integrated new digital technology were used to
modernize and expand the facilities and upgrade to international standards the quality of service
and operational efficiency. A productive commercial marketing approach was also introduced in
the relationship with the users. All this took place on the basis and best use of: (i) the experience
and lessons from the first Bank financed project; (ii) the technical assistance, studies and training
from the first and second Bank projects; (3) the fruitful dialogue, exchange of views and advice,
sharing of experience on approaches, methodology and possible actions with staff from the Bank
and IFC and other co-financiers or specialized agencies (EIB, EBRD, ITU); and (4) best
implementing the organizational and procedural changes and new measures initiated by the new
partners of the company after its privatization from 1994 hereafter. The results and benefits
were highly favorable and it is noteworthy that at the end of 1996, Matav's main exchange line
capacity had reached 2.75 million lines and all existing applications would be satisfied by mid-
1997. In the field of financial management, the project objectives were all met, with self-
financing ratio of 32.6%, rate of return on fixed assets of 12.6%, debt service coverage of 1.56
and internal financial return of 24% (paras. 27 and 28 and Table 5, Part 11).
36.   One major benefit from the privatization and effective cooperation with the new partners
was the improvement of Matav's access to the international capital market. Matav, with its
operational and business plans being now worked out for the next few years, will maintain its
annual investment rate of U$300 to US$400 million, the yearly pace of installation of new lines
remaining of the order of 250,000 lines. With its substantial internal cash generation and
improved access to capital investment sources, Matav was able to prepay in December 1996, the
outstanding balance of Loan 3264-HU. This has also improved its balance sheet and debt
position in view of the upcoming IPO of a large package of Matav's shares.
D.    Project Sustainability
37.   Project Benefits. The project benefits are significant and higher than expected. They
include: (1) a dramatic increase in both coverage and quality of telecommunications services and
modernization of the installations; (2) the transformation of the government-owned monopolistic
public operator of the sector into a large privately-owned company with a majority stake held by
strategic investors and several smaller local telephone operators under license; (3) the concession
and operation of other than land based basic services by licensed independent private operators;
and (4) the introduction of a regulatory framework for the sector, its technical performance, the
tariff regime and its gradual opening to a competitive commercial context.
38.    Sustainability.  All the physical, organizational, and institutional objectives of the
project were thoroughly accomplished or exceeded. The physical targets of the investment
program were over fulfilled during the project period. The institutional, financial, operational,
technical and training objectives of Matav's Action Plan under the loan were implemented and
met within the expected timeframe, though they had to greatly evolve under the restructuring of
Matav's organization following its privatization. All these results and changes enhance Matav's
capacity to sustain operation and development of the basic telecommunications network in



12
Hungary. From the comments in paras. 35 and 36 above, it would appear that the project,
together with the first one, would not only have assisted Matav in qualifying for privatization,
but also put it on the path of major advances in the managerial, financial and operational
independence in its management and operation. Matav's current plans for continued growth of
an efficient network are warranted to the project sustainability.
E.    Bank Performance
39.   Overall Bank performance has been satisfactory under the project. The decade long Bank
participation in the Hungarian TC sector, from the first through the second project loans (1987-
1996) and with the TC Infrastructure Review of 1989 when the second project was prepared, has
been very valuable and instrumental to the sector's significant improvement and development
and also played an important role in sector reform.
40.   The physical development from the project, which took place with the assistance from
other important co-lenders, is summarized by the main exchange line capacities of the basic
telephone network, which increased from about I million lines of largely obsolete equipment in
1987 to 1.3 million lines in 1990 and 2.75 million lines of modern digital interconnected
facilities in 1996, the network being efficiently operated by a privatized company (Table 5, Part
II).
41.   With regard to institutional development, the Guarantee Agreement of the Second Loan
included a commitment of the government to establish an appropriate sector reform strategy,
beyond the commercialization of the main TC operator, and to implement it within a short period
of time. The continuing dialogue between the Bank and the authorities in the TC sector provided
the initial impulse to deregulation of the sector and contributed to the major steps in its reform
which were undertaken by the GOH and the TC operator during the project period. Support was
two-pronged in this field, through the teamwork of Bank staff with their counterparts in project
supervision and the active participation and role of IFC in the opening up of the TC sector in
Hungary within the process of its gradual liberalization (para 23). Continuity in the staff
involved by having the same task managers and project specialists from 1991 to 1994 and the
liaison/concertation between the operational teams were also helpful to the effective progress
made in sector reform and its privatization.
F.    Borrower Performance
42.   The Borrower's performance has been highly satisfactory and the Government's and
Matav's relationship with the Bank has been good throughout the implementation of the project.
The developmental, organizational and financial performance objectives were all achieved and
exceeded the forecasts and expectations in many cases (paras 15 to 29 above). Drawing upon the
consultants services, technical assistance and training financed under the loans from the various
co-lenders, Matav was able to overcome the challenging tasks of planning its development with
the still evolving new digital technology for integrated large networks and take the best
advantage of it in the technical and developmental cost aspects. Furthermore, the privatization
of Matav enabled the company to reorganize itself as an efficient operator with satisfactory
financial performance and improve through its partners its access to international capital
markets. This resulted in a lesser use of the Bank loan funds for the expanding development
needs and in an early prepayment of the loan outstanding balance of about US$76.7 million, six
months after loan closing, thus terminating the related loan and guarantee agreements (paras. 21
and 22).



13
43.    Regarding the preparation and implementation of a sector reform strategy by GOH, as
was provided for under the Guarantee Agreement of the Loan, major steps were accomplished in
a two year period (December 1993 to 1995) towards limited privatization of all basic TC services
in Hungary which are now operated by 13 local telephone operators and Matav, with foreign
participation, and the liberalization of mobile and specialized services which were open to
private operators and are expanding rapidly. The short period during which these changes took
place is noticeable. An assessment of the project results prepared by the Borrower is included in
Part II (Appendix B) of this report.
44.    Compliance with Loan and Guarantee Agreements Covenants. The status of compliance
to legal covenants is detailed in Table 10 of Part II. Matav (the Borrower) is in compliance with
all loan covenants and the government (the Guarantor) is in compliance with all guarantee
agreement covenants.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
45.    The project outcome is highly satisfactory. The project achieved all the physical and
organizational strengthening objectives that it was primarily directed to target. Matav has
exceeded many of the original performance targets in project implementation (see Table 5, Part
II). The sector reform objective has been thoroughly completed. Important steps were made in
the sector reform program and its implementation, including privatization targets and
achievement in line with GOH policy to reform public utilities, opening up their operation to
liberalized market economy through adequate phases during the transition.  In the end,
telecommunications became the first government-owned major utility to be privatized.
H.    Future Operation
46.    The key indicators for future operation of the provided infrastructure at project
completion and from its prospective development from the period 1996 to 2000, are presented in
Part II, Table 6.  The data are ICR estimates for Matav's operational areas and service
concession, assuming that the overall growth rates that were achieved during recent years would
be maintained. The targeted telephone density of 39 DELs per 100 inhabitants under Matav's
original 10-year investment program would be reached by the year 2000. Unsatisfied demand
would taper toward the end of the term waiting lists by 1998. Network usage under the
prevailing tariff regime and quality and efficiency of service would be maintained, which is
satisfactory and compares with international patterns. The financial performance forecasts are
satisfactory. Matav is currently preparing its operational and business plans for the next four
years and intends to maintain its annual investment rate of US$300 to US$400 million. GOH
and Matav are currently envisaging to proceed with an IPO for packages of Matav's shares (para
22). Detailed prospective information on the company and its plans have not yet been made
available. The project's satisfactory outcome is a good prospect for its sustained beneficial
future operation.
L.    Key Lessons Learned
47.    The key lessons learned are as follows:
(a)    The decade-long participation of the Bank in the Hungarian Telecommunications sector
had a major and profound impact on its development, organization and institutional evolution.



14
(b)    The first and second telecommunications projects, which had about three common years
of implementation, can be considered as continuous operations with complementary and
interrelated objectives and results; this was, in particular, with regard to technical assistance
and training, development planning and implementation, organizational and operational
strengthening of the main TC operator, and institutional building and reform.
(c)    The timing of the second project made it possible to take best advantage of the new
digital technology in the planning, construction and operation of modernized and expanded
networks, digitalization strategy prepared under the first project being applied in the design of
the second project and some procurement items being redistributed to best benefit from the
falling costs of equipment.
(d)    The standardization effort of the Borrower in some elements of the new sophisticated
systems, in particular in consideration of future expansion and enlarged operation and
maintenance requirements of these installations, led Matav to utilize alternative financing
resources rather than the Bank loan under the ICB procedure; this resulted in a partial
disbursement of Loan 3264-HU, in spite of the redistribution of some items for financing from
the first loan which was fully disbursed at closing.
(e)    The continuity in the staff involved in the dialogue with the Hungarian authorities and
the two-pronged support from the Bank and IFC in strengthening Matav's capabilities and the
opening up of part of the TC sector to liberalized activities and competition, facilitated the
progress of the ongoing sector reform.
(f)    The determination, persistence and consistency of GOH, during the project period, in
developing, deciding upon and implementing a comprehensive reform program of the country's
TC sector resulted in major steps being taken towards the deregulation of the sector, the
establishment of private or privatized players in the TC market and the gradual liberalization of
the sector in line with current worldwide trends.
(g)    The project had an important role in sector reform even though the loan itself was
directed to financing Matav's development and commercialization. The Loan Agreement
included an Action Plan to this latter effect. The Guarantee Agreement included only a
commitment of GOH to establish an appropriate sector reform strategy to be implemented
shortly thereafter. It is worthwhile to emphasize how the strengthening and development of the
main TC operator through traditional investment lending to a government-owned public utility
can be instrumental to the actual privatization of the sector when there is the political will and
the Government is determined to effectively engage and implement an in-depth reform of the
whole sector.
48.    The existing privatized Matav is a relatively good, dominant public telecommunications
operator in Hungary with satisfactory financial performance and suitable capacities for its
efficient operation and growth in future. The Hungarian TC networks would soon meet the
quantity and quality of performance of other western European countries without waiting lists for
services, thus reaching a level where it would be an incentive to foreign investment. Matav still
has a monopoly on ground-based telephony until the end of the year 2001. The OECD and the
EU, however, recommend in their sectoral guidelines or incentives, that complete deregulation of
the telecommunications market take place earlier than this deadline. It will be of interest to
observe, and/or assist in, the further steps GOH would consider to this effect in the near future.



15
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I    :      Summary of Assessment
Table 2    :      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3    :      Project Timetable
Table 4    :      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and
Actual
Table 5    :      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6    :      Key Indications for Project Operation
Table 7    :      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A    :     Project Costs
Table 8B    :     Project Financing
Table 9    :      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10    :     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11    :     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12    :     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13    :     Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices
A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. Map (IBRD No. 22348)



16
Table I:      Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives             Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                           Dg           D           D2            2
Sector Policies                                                                 E7
Financial Objectives                                  D           D              D
Institutional Development                            []          []              D
Physical Objectives                                  [ 1]         D              O
Poverty Reduction                        D            D:          FD             X
Gender Issues                            D                        D 7            3
Other Social Objectives                  D            D           D             z
Environmental Objectives                 D1           D           D1            z
Public Sector Management                 D3           2             ]           FD
Private Sector Development               D3                       D              D 
Other (specify)                          El          El           Cl            Fl
Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability                    E                                      El
Highil            Satisfactorv       Deficient
C. Bank Performance                       satisfactorv
Identification                                              E1                  F[
Preparation Assistance                                      E]                   El
Appraisal                                                    E                   El
Supervision                                                  E                   El
Highlv            Satisfactorv        Deficient
D. Borrower Performance                   Satisfactorv
Preparation                              El                 z 
Implementation                          Ez                                       E 
Covenant Compliance                                         El                   El
Operational (if applicable)                                 E                    El
Higb                                           Hiuhlv
Satisfactor   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactorv
E. Assessment of Outcome                                              El             E



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan
Title           Purpose         Year of    Amount
Approval   (US$M)               Status
Loan 2847-   (a) to increase financial   1987    $70 million  Project was satisfactorily
HU           and administrative                          completed in June 1993, and
First        autonomy for Magyar                         the loan was fully disbursed
Telecom      Posta (MP);                                 and closed on schedule, on
Project                                                  December 31, 1993. The
(b) to rehabilitate and                     project's PCR was distributed
expand local and long-                      on June 30, 1995 (Report No.
distance telephone,                         14727).
telex and data
networks, and expand
services outside
Budapest to improve
geographical balance
of the network; and
(c) institutional
improvement for more
efficient,
commercially oriented
and autonomous
operation of MP's
telecoms activities.
Note = At completion of the Second Telecommunications Project under Loan 3264-HU, there were no
other Bank Group operations in progress or preparation for the Telecommunications sector in Hungary.



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date/Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned                  Latest Estimate
Identification a/                 FY89                          FY89
Preparation/Appraisal a/              FY90                          FY90
Executive Project Summary          December 1990                 December 1990
Appraisal                 March 5-17, 1990              March 5-17, 1990
Negotiations               August 6-10, 1990             August 6-10, 1990
Board presentation/approval        October 9, 1990               October 9, 1990
Signing                  October 29, 1990               October 29, 1990
Effectiveness                January 4, 1991               Januarv 4, 1991
Project Completion                June 1996                     April 1996
Loan Closing                 June 30, 1996                  June 30, 1996
a/Project identification and preparation were combined during FY89 and 90 with
with supervision of the then ongoing First Telecommunications Project, under Loan 2847-IHU.
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94         FY95        FY96
Appraisal Estimate       12.0    44.0      82.0    117.0    145.0         150.0
Revised             12.0    44.0      72.0    197.0    100.0         110.0
Actual              10.0    10.1     28.3      47.1      84.8        87.2
Actual as % of revised estimate  .83%  33%      39%      51%       85%         80%
Date of last disbursement                                                 November
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 3 0 ,    1 9 9 5
a/An amount of US$40.0 million was canceled from the initial loan amount of US$150 million,
in April 1996, at Borrower's request resulting from project cost savings.
b/At loan closing in July 1996, an undisbursed balance of US$22.8 million was also canceled,
upon return of the unused funds of the Special Account, and Matav having decided to finance
from its own funding resources some remaining project items, that would be acquired under a
revised plan for its evolving network. The final disbursed amount from the Loan was adjusted to
a total of US$87.2 million on July 10, 1996.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Categories                        I-     990 - -\ I-----1991-----\ /--------1992------\ /-------1993---------  -----1994-------\ I-     1995 --   -----1996---\
Annual targets or                  SAR             SAR             SAR               SAR             SAR a/           SAR a/
values at December 31             Target Actual  Target  Actual  Target  Actual  Target  Actual  Target Actual   Target  Actual   Actual
1. Construction Program
(1) Total exchange capacity         1.28    1.27    1.34    1.38    1.55    1.60     1.77     1.97    2.07    2.32     2.37    2.50      2.75
(Million)
(2) Connected subscribers           0.96    0.99    1.04    1,13    1.17    1.29     1.35     1.49    1.55    1.73     1.88    1.89      2.15
DEL's (Million)
(3) Telephone Density                 -    9.62     -      10.92    -       12.52    -       14.57    -      17.40     -      24.20     28.10
(DEL's per 100 inhabitants)
(4) Connected data subscriber (000)  3.50    3.50    4.50    3.90    5.80    4.40    7.10     5.00    -       6.10     -       6.98      7.98
2. Quality of Performance
(1) Number of billing complaints    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.43    0.25    0.44     0.25     0.45    0.44    0.50     0.44    0.31      0.16
(per 100 sub/month/no.)
(2) Number of faults               11.20   11.20   11.09    6.30    10.00    5.30    9.50     4.70    4.50    4.20     4.00    3.30      2.73
(per 100 sub/month)                     _
(3) Effective calling rate (%)
-Budapest b/                    46.00   46.00   48.00   46.80   48.00   46.80    50.00    47.80   48.00   50.90      -       -
-Local inland                   58.20   55.20   58.50   55.40   59.00   56.30    60.00    58.30   59.00   67.34    61.40   59.18     60.66
-National long distance         52.50   43.12   52.50   43.30   55.00   49.20    57.00    51.00   50.00   50.30    50.00   52.60     57.92
-International/incoming         34.00   34.00   34.00   36.40   35.00   37.30    38.00    40.30   41.50   45.90    45.00   46.60     47.00
(4) Staff/1000 DEL                 25.20   22.00   23.60   18.50   26.80   15.20    20.10    12.30   15.00   10.50    12.00    9.00      8.30
3. Financial Performance
(1) Debt service coverage (%)       6.60    7.70    4.50    4.00    5.30    3.50     5.20     3.00    1.60    3.80     1.60    1.60      1.60
(2) Self-financing Ratio (%)        -     80.80     -      62.10    -      45.80     -       40.00   30.00   31.80    35.30   32.60     35.00
(3) Net internal cash generation   54.80    -      46.20    -      62.10     -      63.20     -       -       -        -       -
(4) Rate of return on net fixed    20.50   26.50   29.10   32.10   31.00   15.70    31.00    13.00   10.00   10.78    22.40   12.60     12.60
assets (%)
a/ SAR did not indicate targets after 1993. These are supervision/lICR estimates.
bl In 1995, Budapest area performance was combined with other Matav's local areas' performance.



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation a/
Categories                                           1996    1997        1 998     1 999      2000
Annual targets at                                  (JULY)
December31 a/A35+A22+A19
1. Construction Program (Matav Areas)
(1) Total exchange capacity                          2.75      3.00     3.40       3.90       4.40
(Million)                                      _
(2) Connected subscribers                            2.15      2.35     2.60       2.90       3.40
DEL's (Million)
(3) Telephone Density                               28.10     30.30    33.00      36.00      39.00
(DEL's per 100 inhabitants)
(4) Connected data subscriber (000)                  7.38      9.00    10.20      11.50      13.00
2. Quality of Performance
(1) Number of billing complaints                     0.16      0.15     0.16       0.13       0.12
(per 100 sub/month/no.)                      _
(2) Number of faults                                 2.73      2.30     1.90       1.50       1.10
(per 100 sub/month)                                                                                                   o
(3) Effective calling rate (%)
-Local inland                                    60.66     65.00    70.00      75.00      80.00
-National long distance                          57.92     63.00    68.00      73.00      78.00
-International/incoming                          47.00     53.00    58.00      63.00      68.00
(4) Staff/1000 DEL                                   8.30      8.20     8.10       8.00       8.00
3. Financial Performance
(1) Debt service coverage (%)                        1.60      1.60     1.60       1.60       1.60
(2) Self-financing Ratio (%)                        35.00     34.00    33.00      33.00      33.00
(3) Net internal cash generation                     -        45.00    45.00      50.00      50.00
(4) Rate of return on net fixed                     12.60     13.00    13.50      14.00      15.00
assets (%)                                                      I         I         I          I
a/ ICR estimates for Matav's operational areas, assuming that the growth rates achieved in 1996 are maintained.



21
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal       Status              Impact of Study
A. WB Loan Funded-                      Completed      MIS being implemented since 1995
1. Management Information System        (1993-94)     within Matav's new organizational
(MIS):                                              structure.
To develop new MIS and design a
Master Plan for Information
Technology.
2. Operation Support System (OSS):      Completed     Implementation is ongoing. Pilot
Implementation bid, initially for WB   (1995)      project working. Progressive cut over
financing, failed in mid-1994. Contract            planned from 1997.
with new firm and Matav financing was
concluded later in 1994.
3. Ouality of Service Supervision (QOS)  Completed    New quality control system
To develop a quality control system and  (1993)     implemented and working since
use appropriate quality indicators.                 1995.
4. Marketing Study:                     Completed     Responsibility for marketing of
To develop and implement an effective  (1992-93)    various value-added products were
marketing strategy.                                 transferred to appropriate
subsidiaries. New marketing
structure for reorganized Matav was
being introduced in 1996, under
guidance of strategic investors.
5. Human Resource Management and        Completed     Results of the work are continuously
Development (HRM&D):                  (1991-94)     put into practice in the personnel
To develop a Master Plan for                        activity fields, within Matav's
management and development of human                restructured set-up. Training will be
resource within the Hungarian TC                    started up in a separate TA project
Company (HTC).                                      (see item (iv) below).
6. Study Visits for Staff Training; in relation   Completed  Number of participating staff and
to the above studies for:                           total training days were:
-MIS                                (1994)         -57 for 90 days
-OSS                                (1993)         -4 for 16 days
-QOS                                (1993)         -9 for 30 days
-Marketing                          (1993)         -35 for 90 days



22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (Cont.)
Study
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal       Status             Impact of Study
7. Deferred Studies In:                               These studies were deferred or
(i) Accounting systems              July 1993      canceled from WB funding at HTC's
(ii) Procurement/Investment processes   Mid-1995   request, when indicated, in
(iii) Data Processing methods of SPC  June 1993    connection with Matav's
exchanges                       A draft       privatization and reorganization.
(iv) Training system                contract of    They are being implemented with
1944 with the   Matav's funding and its JV partners.
ITU (a) is    They are expected to be completed
being updated.  in 1996/97.
B - EIB Loan Funded
1. ISDN Implementation Plan a/           Completed   Plan was implemented and ISDN
(1992-93)   operational in 1995.
2. CCS No. 7 Implementation Plan a/       (1992-93)   Plan was operational in 1994-1995.
3. Pricing System and Tariffs             (1992-93)   Tariff Decree in line with Study was
published in November 1993, before
decisions on privatization.
a/ ITU: International Telecommunications Union (Geneva); ISDN= Integrated Services
Digital Network; CCS No. 7 = Common Channel Signaling System No. 7.



23
Table 8A - PROJECT COSTS a/
(In US Millions)
Appraisal Estinates for 520,000 lines (1991-93)  Actual Cost for 600,000 lines (1991-93)  Actual Cost for 630,000 lines (1994-95)  Actual Cost for 1,230,000 lines (1991-95)
PROJECT COMPONENTS           Local Costs I Foreign Costs    TOTAL    Local Costs Foreign Costs  TOTAL  Local Costs Foreign Costs  TOTAL   Local Costs Foreign Costs   TOTAL
1. Local Telephone Network         562.6           69.7       632.3        362        109.8    471.8       465.6         41.6      507.2       827.6        151.4       979.0
2. Long Distance Network            88.8           66.5       155.3       65.9         96.5    162.4        60.1          13.8      73.9        126         110.3       236.3
3. International Network             6.1            4.1        10.2       15.2         15.2      30.4        0.3           0.8        1.1       15.5           16        31.5
4. Telex, Telgraph, Data            30.5           27.8        58.3        9.9         17.4      27.3        6.6           3.4        10        16.5         20.8        37.3
5. Rural Networks b/                47.9           69.5       117.4      149.7         52.8    202.5      300.0          30.0        330      449.7          82.8       532.5
6. Mobile Radio  c/                 25.9           16.8        42.7        -           -         -           -
7. Operations & Maintenanc         28.0            38.8        66.8       30.6         13.5      44.1       22.2          6.6       28.8       52.8          20.1        72.9
8. Technical Assistance,
Training                        20.5            3.1        23.6        7.1          0.9      8.0        20.2          9.7       29.9        27.3         10.6       37.9
9. Miscellaneous d/                 61.4           -           61.4      69.0           0.8      69.8       36.9                    36.9      105.9           0.8       106.7
TOTAL BASE COST                871.7         296.3    1,168.0
10. Contingencies:
- Quanntities Physical          43.6          15.3        58.9
- Cost Price                    87.2          30.6       117.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                1002.5         342.2       1344.7      709.4        306.9   1016.3       911.9        105.9     1017.8    1621.3         412.8      2034.1
a/ The average exchange rates used are In Hunganan Forints per US $ = 62.0 at appraisal in 1990, 82.0 and 122 00 for the 1991-93 and 1994-95 project implementation sub-periods, respectively
b/ Rural networks also covered some primary areas from 1994 on.
c/ The mobile radio network was entrusted to 'Westel 900" a Matav subsidiary company in 1993. No funding required.
d/ Includes customs duties, taxes, and miscellaneous developments for plants, building and equipment reconstruction.



24
Table 8B: Project Financing
Funding Sources        Appraisal Estimate (US$M)        Actual (US$M)
Local   Foreign             Local   Foreign
Costs   Costs   Total       Costs    Costs    Total
External Sources
-IBRD
*Loan I( 2847- HU)                   20.01                      23.3
*Loan-II ( 3264-HU)                 150.01                      87.2
170.010.
OTHER
*EIB                                100.0                       96.0
*EBRD                                23.0                       22.0
*Other a/                            59.2                       184.
182.2                       302.3
Domestic Sources
*Internal Cash
Generation                741.1                      1063.6
*Domestic Borrowings b/     261.4                       559.7
1002.5                      1621.3
Total                      1002.5   352.2    134       1621.3   412.8    2034.1
a/ Includes: suppliers credits, commercial borrowings investment loans.
b/ Includes: local/government borrowing and bonds.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(HUF Million)
Without Project                             |With Project                                    Project
Op'g Expns                                 j Op'g Expns                                                        Add-Back
Excluding        Ttl Op'g  Ttl Op'g  Net Op'g  Excluding         Tti Op'g  Ttl Op'g  Net Op'g  Net Op'g        Dprctn on    Net
Year    Dprctn   Dprctn  Expns   Rvns    Rvns        Dprctn    Dprctn   Expns    Rvns       Rvns    Rvns   lnvstmnt  Invstmnt    Bnft
1991      24,323   8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948    24,323    8,591   32,914    44,862   11,948        0  -29,813         0    -29,813
1992      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     48,462    3,142   51,604    60,029    8,425    -3,523  -19,666    -5,449   -28,638
1993      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     50,748   15,073   65,821    81,053   15,232    3,284  -23,581     6,482   -13,815
1994      24,323   8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948    70,249   20,425   90,674   109,739   19,065    7,117  -52,754    11,834   -33,803
1995      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720  -17,000    21,923    23,643
1996      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
1997      24,323   8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948    82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
1998      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
1999      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
2000      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,852    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
2001      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
2002      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
2003      24,323   8.591   32,914  44,862    11,948    82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
2004      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21.923    40,643
2005      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
2006      24,323   8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948    82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
2007      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
2008      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
2009      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
2010      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
2011      24,323  8,591   32,914  44,862    11,948     82,139   30,514  112,653   143,321   30,668    18,720       0    21,923    40,643
Notes                                                                                     The Re-estimated Internal Financial Rate of Return
(1) This table is prepared by a HUF basis to be compared to the SAR.                                                             23.94%          (SAR. 25 60%)
(2) Total operating expenses of the project at current prices (1995 figures have been assumed for year 1996-2011)
(3) Total operating revenues of the project at current prices (1995 figures have been assumed for year 1996 to 2011)
(4) [Net Benefit]=[Net Operating Revenuesj+[investment]+[Add-Back Depreciation on Investment]



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant              3.ifill      fulfill
Clean (a)   Status     Date         Date      DesuXlhtion of Covenant 
Aereement: LOAN Loan Number. IBRD -32640
Text Reference: 4.01
12           C        07/01/1991                The Borrower shall by July 1, 1991, reconstitute    None
itself as a joint-stock company under the laws of
the Guarantor.
Text Reference: 4.01
09           C                                  Furnish to the Bank by 5/31 and 11/30 of each           None
yeara report on the progress achieved in carrying
out the Action Plan.
Text Reference: 5.01
01,09        C                                  Borrower to submit Financial Statements and Audit   None
Report.
Text Referentce: 5.02
02           C        06/30/1992                For each fiscal year after FY93 generate funds          None
notless than 30% of annual capital expenditure.
Tert Reference: 5.03
02           C        06/30/1992                The Borrower shall earn an annual return of not         None
less than 10%.
Text Referene: 5.04
02           C        06/30/1992                Maintain a debt service coverage of not less than   None
1.5.
Stat us:
C    - Conplied with
CD   - Conpliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Conpliance Expected In Reasonably Short Tlme
CP   - Conplied with Partially
MYD - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class
I Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds
4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
b Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other



27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable bank Operational Manual Statements
(OD or OP/BP) was observed under the project. Provisional unsatisfactory practices, in
particular in the procurement process, were adequately adjusted or corrected during supervision.
Number and Title            Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project
Cycle                  Planned                         Actual a/
I_____________ _ =  L Weeks           US$ b/        Weeks             US$ c/
Through appraisal         30          71,100        36 d/            103,320
Appraisal-Board           30          71,100         24               68,880
Board-effectiveness       10          23,700          8               22,960
Supervision               132        312,840        144e/            413,280
Completion                18          42,660         18               51,660
Total                    220         521,400         230             660,100
a/ Data shown are actual at project completion/loan closing, end of July 1996, on the basis of
available project supervision Form 590s.
b/At FY90 (appraisal time) average staff-week cost of $2370.
c/ At FY96 (project completion time) average staff-week cost of $2870.
d/ Some additional "preparation/coordination with other donors" activities were needed, due to project size
and complexity and to sector management improvement and reforms being undertaken.
e/ Some additional time was needed during project supervision, to adjust/update operational developmental
and financial management activities after Matav's privatization.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Mission
Number         Days            Specialized           Implemen-        Develop-
Month/           of            In             Staff Skills          tation/           ment
Stage of Project Cycle                        Year          Persons         Field        Represented /1a       Overall Status      Impact                                  Types of Problems
Through Apraisal
- Sector reviewfidentification /c             Mar-88           3             14          Econ; Eng., Fin A.                                    NB Telecommunications Infrastructure Survey & supervision of first project.
- Preparabon 1 /_C                            Jul-88           2             10             Econ; Eng..
- Preparation, pre-appraisal /c              Jun-89            3             28          Econ; Eng., Fin A.                                    Operations of Postal Broadcastng and Telecoms services are still combined
- Appraisal 1 Ic                             Dec-89            2             16             Econ; Eng.-                                        Assistance to manufacturing industry.
Appraisal through Board Approval
- Appraisal Update                           Feb-90            2             6              Econ: Eng-                                         Project co-financing to be secured.
- Final Appraisal /c                          Mar-90           3             30          Econ; Eng.. Fin A.                                    Telecoms, Postal and Broadcasting services operaged separately trom 1/90..
- Negotiations                               Aug-90            6             18         Econ: Eng ,Fin A.,
Leg., Mngt, Proc.
- Board approval                              Oct-90
- Loan dosing                                 Oct-90
- Loan effectiveness                          Jan-91
Supervision Completion
Supervision I (project start-up) /c         Jan-91            1             4              Tm/Econ.                                          Corporafzationprievitizafon targets being considered by GOH in line with
reform program for public utilities.
Supervision 2 /_                             Aug-91           4             20       Tm/Econ., Eng., Fin A.         2                        Organizational changes result in delay in initial project implementaton.
Co-financing now arranged.
Supervision 3 /c                            Jun-92            3             15       Tm/Econ., Eng., Fin A.         2                        HTC Financial situation deteriorates. Tariff levels to increase to cope with
inflation HTC becomes a joint stock company.
Supervision 4 /c                            Oct-92            4             20       Tm/Econ., Eng., Fin A.         2                        Limited tarff increase - HTC investment program to be provisionally scaled
down.
Supervision 5 Ic                            Jun-93            1             5               TmlEng.                 1                        HTC prvatization being prepared, project procurement now largely underway.
Supervision 6 /c                            Jan-94            3             12        Tm/Eng., Fin A, Eng.          1                        First project satisfactorly completed, PCR is being prepared HTC prvatized at
30% since Dec 93. Important organizational and financial management
changes are in progress. Tariff decree issued.
Supervision 7                               Oct-94            2             10           Tm/Eng., Fin A           HS /d           HS /d      Expanded investment program being now considered.
Supervision 8                               Apr-95            1             4               Tm/Eng.                HS               HS       Financial convenants adjusted to new financial management procedure.
Supervision 9                                Jul-95          2              6            TmlEng., Eng.             HS              HS        Mission was to handover project supervision to new TM
Supervision 10                              Jan-96            2             10        Tm/Eng., Fin A/Econ.         HS              HS        Action plan on undisbursed/not yet committed loan proceeds
Supervision 1i1  Completion                  Ju1-96          3             18        Tm/Eng., Econ., Eng.          HS               HS       HTC advised that separate funding was arranged for remaining project items
I  I  I               I______________  I_____________  IICR  prepared  from   mission.
la Abbreviations: -Eng. Engineer--FinA, Financial Analyst; -Econ. Economist; -MgmtlProct, ManagemenUitProcurement Specialist; -Leg. - Lawyer; Tm-Task Manager/Specialty
fb Keys to: -overall perform,nce rating (befora FY94f = I - problem free; 2 - moderate; 3 - major problems - Implementatlon/developmenl impact status (from FY94 on) = HS - highly satisfactory; S - satisfactory;
u - unsatisfactory; HU - highly unsatisfactory.
fe Combired mission for supervision of the first project (Loan 21474-u) implemented 6187 to 12193, and supervision of the second project (Loan 3264-HU).
Id New project performance rating isintroduced (revised Form 590, see <b above>.



29
APPENDIX A
Second Telecomunications Project (Loan 3264-HU)
Final Supervision/Completion Mission
Aide-Memoire
(12 pages)



30
Aide iMemoire
Hungarv Telecommunications If Project - Loan No. 3264-HU
Worid Bank Supervision/Completion Mission, Julv 3 to 9, 1996
To: Jinos Csak
Executive Director. Treasurer. Matav                             July 25, 1996
Introduction:
1.    The above mission comprised Messrs. H. W. Lantzke. M. Scoffier and Y. Kawamura of
the World Bank. The mission met with Mr. Rav Stewart (Chief Financial Officer) and other key
officiais of Matav tthe Borrower), MIessrs. L. Pandi (Procurement Manager) and A Kovacs
(Commercial Director) of Inteltrade: Mr. Imre Bolcskei (Deputy State Secretary) and
Mr. P. Fizesserv (Snr. Counselor) Ministrv of Transport. Communication and Water Manage-
ment. MNIs. T. Kisvolcsev and Dr. A. Hegeduis (Deputy General Managers) and other officials of
the National Bank of Hungary. and Mr. A. Csizmadia. (Service Counselor) of the Ministrv of
Finance. The key findings and agreements reached between the parties and the mission are re-
corded below - they are subject to ratification by Bank management on return of the mission
staff to headquarters. The mission extends its thanks to the management and staff of Matav, and
all other organizations involved in the mission for their kind support. helpful comments. and
generous hospitality.
2.    The main objective of the mission was to determine the final status of the project and
collect relevant information for preparinz the project completion report (Implementation
Completion Report - ICR).
i'fission findin2gs ont project implementation:
3.    Sunmav The mission congratulated Matav. the Ministrv and the Nationai Bank of
Hungiary on a verv successful project and expressed its appreciation for the excellent support
provided to the Bank throughout project implementation. Although a significant amount of the
loan has not been used. all Hungarian parties unanimouslv agreed that the Bank's participation in
the sector. from the first through the second project loan. had been verv valuable for (i) creating
momentum in sector reform and (ii) providing guidance and critical funds for the much needed
physical development and modernization of the telecommunications sector beginning in the late
1980's. It was also noted that in the wake of the first loan. the relationship and dialogue between
the various Hungarian parties and the Bank was well maintained and helpful in direct project
matters and with regard to sector restructuring and reform. The Mlission would like to record its
special thanks to MIr. Gabor Elekes and staff of Matav's International Financial Institutes Depart-
ment for the quality. effectiveness, and constructive support provided throughout the project.
4.    The detailed findings of the mission are contained in three annexes. Annex I comprises a
comprehensive status report of all project components. Annex 2 contains a commentarv on
findings of the mission in relation to sector reform and specific project implementation issues.



31
World Bank Aide Memoire - Hungarv Telecommunications 11 Sucervision Mission  Page 2
Annex 3 is the updated project performance indicators. Other specific information provided by
Mataiv will be incorporated directly into the ICR.
5.    Loan Status: As of April 9. 1996. S40M was canceled from the loan amount. Of the
remaining $1 OM, 589.55M has been disbursed. but this amount includes an outstanding Special
Account balance of about $2.33SM. The loan closed on June 30, 1996. Matav made clear to the
mission that there are no outstanding eligible invoices for which they would seek additional
payment from the loan. Therefore. there is no need for the Bank to keep the loan account open
after settlement of the Special Account. Matav is in the process of transferring the outstanding
Special Account balance to the World Bank. Thus the total dispersed amount of the loan will be
about $87.2M leaving an undisbursed amount to be canceled of about $22.8M. In total. about
$62.8M of the original loan amount was not used. There were a variety of reasons for this
including (i) rapidly falling equipment prices. (ii) changes in technology which resulted in a
review of the overall network development plans and some falling of demand such as telex, and
(iii) the privatization of Matav which opened Matav's access to other funds with less restrictions
than the Bank's loan on procurement. More details on this are given in Annex 2.
6.    Priect Status: The project objectives have been essentially completed. Matav has
exceeded many of the original performance targets (refer performance indicators in Annex 3).
Overall. from 1991 to 1995 Matav connected 897,000 new subscribers at an overall growth rate
of about 14% per annum. As a result. the density of phone lines increased from 9.6% of
population (end of 1990) to an impressive 24.2% (end of 1995) compared with an appraisal plan
of 16.4%. In other areas Matav has completely replaced its manual exchanges with modem
digital equipment. and installed over I 8.000 public telephones covering the whole of Hungary.
7.    There was some delay in disbursement. but the project has been completed apart from
some ongoing operations support items which are now being funded by Matav and are scheduled
to be completed in 1997 (see Annex 1).
8.    Loan and Guarantee Covenants Mativ is in compliance with all loan covenants and the
government (the guarantor) is in compliance with the guarantee agreement covenants.
Vataiv Structure:
9.    On December 20, 1995. the strategic investor MagyarCom. (a Deutsche Telekom/
Ameritech Consortium) purchased additional equity from APV Rt. (the state holding company)
thereby increasing its equity in the company from 30% to 67%. APV Rt. now owns 28% plus a
golden share: and EBRD/IFC and others own 5%. An extraordinary shareholders meeting on
Januarv 30. 1996 appointed the new Board members in line with the ownership change (7
members from MagyarCom. three from the State Privatization and Holding Co. (APV Rt.), and
one appointed from the other shareholders). A committee has been formed to consider a possible
public share offering in the future. Any reduction in APV Rt. shareholding below 25% would
require an amendment to the law. A chronological table of sector restructuring and Matav's
privatization is given in Annex 2.
Tariffs:
10.   At the beginning of the project. telecommunications tariffs were too low and were not
keeping pace with the rapid inflation. In 1991, the govemment agreed to a tariff increase of 40%.
For 1992 and 1993 prices were adjusted bv agreement with the govemment on an item-by-item



32
World Bank Aide Memoire - Hungarv Telecommunications II Suoervision Mission   Page 3
basis. In 1993 the ministry issued a decree stipulatina prices for 1994 together with a price cap
formula limiting increases for an overall basket of tariffs to the Producer Price Index (PPI). The
formula has a rebalancing mechanism designed to raise local prices and reduce intemational and
long distance prices in line with costs bv about 2002. Agreement on such a formula was a
covenant in the Guarantee Aareement. During 1995 overall tariffs were increased by 10.2% in
line with the July 1994/93 PPI. Separatelv. in 1995. the government agreed to an increase in
residential connection fees from HUF12000 to HUF3O.000 (plus VAT). This increase has
slowed residential demand but increased connection revenues during 1995. An increase of 23.5%
in the basket of prices is expected for 1996 in line with the 28.3% 1995/94 change in PPI.
Financial performance:
11.   Matav provided the Bank with its audited accounts for 1995. Matav's financial
performance for 1995 was verv good. Consolidated revenues increased in US dollar terms from
1994 to 1995 by 9.5% to about USS988M equivalent. All financial covenants, which were
modified in the Bank's letter dated December 19. 1994. were met. These include a self-financing
ratio of 32.6% (covenant >30%): the rate of return on net fixed assets of 12.6 (covenant 210%);
and debt service coverage of 1.56 (covenant > I.5%).
12.   [t is noteworthy that Matav currently enjoys a 100% tax holidav until the end of 1998 and
a 20% tax relief for the following7 5 years. This is permitted under a 1991 corporate tax act
allowing certain tax relief to joint venture companies with foreign participation of at least 30%.
Preparation of the ICR - Next Steps
13.   In accordance with the loan agreement, the Bank and Borrower are required to prepare a
project completion report (ICR). The ICR summarizes and evaluates the project objectives,
project implementation. expected project sustainabilitv, project benefits and the Bank and
Borrower performance. The ICR should also identify the key lessons from the project. The
Bank's first draft of the report is scheduled to be circulated to the Borrower. the Guarantor and
the principle co-financier (EIB) in October 1996 for their kind comments. The report should
contain a contribution from the Borrower which includes its own evaluation on the project's
execution. cost and benefits. as well as the performance of the BarLk and Borrower against their
respective obligations. This was discussed with Matav and representatives of the Guarantor.
Matav agreed to provide its contribution for the ICR to the Bank by the end of September. 1996.
14.   During the mission the annual project costs. sources of financing, and details on the
technical assistanceistudies (with notes on their impact on Matav) were discussed. Matav agreed
to provide the Bank wvith updates of these tables. together with an updated procurement table. as
soon as the final loan disbursed amounts are known.
Distribution:
Matav officials
Officials of the Ministrv of Transport. Communications and Water Management
Officials of the Hungarian National Bank
Officials of the Ministrv of Finance
Budapest Resident Representative, World Bank.
Hugh Lantzke
M:%LANTZKE\ECA\AMEM HTC.M76
July 25. 1996 9:37 AM



Annex I
Hungary - Second Telecommunications Project - LN 3264 HU
Suimmary of Project Statius - July 9, 1996
Loan Amount: Cuwrent    110M Canceled = 540M, Ong. = I150M. Disbused JUne 19. 1996 = $89. 55M, Orlg. Closing Date = June 30, 1996
Objectii-c        bCv Project          linplnicntalinn.  Ic.in                  Progress                  Commenis/Act-   SIaIuS
Conilloneil     _                                                                        ions & D);ae
Rehabilitate    a. Construct and      (i) Supply and install some 19   Work completed. By end 95 No. of                     Done
and expand      commission an         new digital trunk exchanges    exchanges reduced to 12 but capacity of
HTC's           oveflay long distance   with capacity of 158,000 truink   exchanges was greater than planned at
telecoiniuunica  telecommujnications    lines throughout Hungary   223,410 tiunk lines Excnanges were not
lions facilihies.   network           (Supplier Credit, EtB & EBRD)  installed in arteas to be given as
concessions lo diivate o     -era-ors
(il) Install abotil 1,400 kml of    Of Cable 4 coilfracts awarded to Pirelli         Done
optical fiber (OF) cable.    19Feb92, 30Sepl93. 30Nov93. 23Feb95
SAR $38.9M1, Actl. $2.39M  (S 2 39M) Equipinent delivered Inslallalion
(Aboti S 1 OM for OF liiided    financed by HiTC. 2,700kri installed by end
from 1 t Loan)               94 - some equipmnent also financed by EIB
& EBRD.
and associated transmission    140 Mbps optical line equipment and
systems ~ ~ ~ ~ 14                                                            DoneilJ ie qipmn  n
SAR y 35.3Ms  Actl. 7.57M  f4lliplexers contracted to lItaltel 31Mar92,
SAR S35.3M ActI.  4.13M). Equjipment installed.
Other Transniission Systems:
Digital pair gain systems contract to Greek             Done
Intracom S A. 25Aug94 ($3.44M).
Deliveries completed 95.
(iii) Install about 4P       Contract with Siemens ol Germany and                     Done
microwave systems.           Tomen of Japan. Financed by EIB.
SAR $8.05M, Acti. $SM  Equiipment delivered and installed.
One contract for emergency mobile
microwave was bid, SAT won the tender but
___________________ y then_e_uiprnentnot required,
(iv) Power equipment         Contracts to Muvek/Ascom for DC power                   Done
SAR S4.6M. Actl. $3.15M  supply systems 10Jan94 ($1.87M); Varta
AG for lead batleries 5Jan94. ($1.28M)
Equipment delivered and installed. (But air-
conditioning units canceled.)
b. Improve and        (i) Install Intelsat and Eutelsal  Contract to sumItomo for 2 Intelsat earth          Done
expand HTCs           Ground slatlons              stallons 27Sept91 - one to USA, Oet to
Intemational              SAR $4.IM, ActI. $0o86M   Asia. ($4.48M financed from 1st WB loan.
telecommunicatlons      _86M_fom_Inisloan)._e__ui 1m-
717196   Pape I



Objective         b'ey Project        Imilemcnlation. 'leans                   Progress                 Comments/Act-   St;atus
Coniponent                                                                             ions & Date
network                                           delivered and installed. Eutelsat earlh
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _____   ___ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ station    not   required._ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
(ii) Expand international   Bid approved I2Aug93. butI nol issued. HTC              Done
gateway exchange             already had 3 types of gateway equipment
HTC ftinanced. and decided to standai dize by selecting
bidder from one of these three. This did not
meet WB guidelines so 100% fITC
linanced. Equjipment delivered and
installed
(iii) Expand international telex  This item completely financed from first           Done
and data circuits           projecl. Additional expansion not required
SAR $19.6M. Acil. SONM  due to fall in demnand for telex. (use of fax
I st Lo:in: S19 6M) inslead.)
c. Improve and       (i) Install about 520,000 lines   Equiipment delivered and installed. Acitial        Done
expand local switching  of switching capacity (490,000  installed lines was approx. 1,137,000.
capacity             new, 30,000 replaceinenl)    (End '95)
EIB linanced. ($1 57M)                                                              _
(ii) Provide associaled cable   (l) Szeged: HTC lost concession, item               Canceled
neiwork and customer        canceled. (Contract actually signed but had
equipmeiunl fur Ihe 400,000  to be canceled afet loss of concession)
new customers to be         (ii) Nyiregyliaza: contract with Siemens
coninected (about 70%       ($3.67M) and1 Tavkozlestechnika 24Jun94,                Done
business customers)         (S7.02M) Wowk compleled.
Ofiginially to be HTC financed  (iii) Szolnok: contract with KOTI-VIZIG            Dn
SAR SOM, Actl. $34.55M  ($1.65M) and Sieinens 24Jun94, ($3.87M).               Done
WVork conmpletedi 95.
(iv) Debrecen: contracted 24Jun94 wilh
Sieiens. (55.44M) Tavkozlelechnika                     Done
($5.81M) Handed over 95 and completed
early in 96.
(v) Gyor: cotiliact with Siemens 31May94,
(S7.08M) work completed 95.                            Done
(vi) Bekescsaba and Kecskemet: Both
projects canceled.                                     Canceled
d. Improve and       (i) Provide about 1.300 km of  Electronic exchanges with capacity of                 Done
expand HTCs rural    OF cable and 200 pwave       53,000 lines in 60 villages were Instaeed to
telecom. network     systems. (Inc. in a(ii) & (iii)    replace rural manual exchanges. EIB
above)                      funded exchanges, ESRD funded OF
e_ Improve and  (.) Expand mobile                                                           I a
e. Improve and       () Expand mobUo radio         New companies 'Westel and 'Westel 900                  Done
expand HTC's mobile  network by about 13,200      formed as JVwith HTC and USWEST.        _
n^    Pipe ?



Objective        IKey Project         Implementation. NMeans                   Progress                 Comments/Act-   Status
ConiLmnent                                                                             ions & Date
radio network.        subscribers                  Demands for mobile significantly exceed
SAR S18.4M, ActI.S0M  expeclation, by end '93 Westel (450) had
more than 45,000 cuistomers. WB luncling
not required. IFCIEGRO provided some
eqilty. By end 95 Ihese were about
200.000 mobile customers.               _
. . Expand telex and   (i) Provide telex and data  No expansion required. Work completed       .lem
data services         services to about 12,000 new    under first project see ilem b (iii) above.         Canceled
.___ ___ _ _   custorners 
g. Provide public    (i) Install about 1,000 card  Item expanded to 12.000 card phones.                   Done
card payphones        payphones                   Contract for chip card with Monelel SA of
SAR $1.2M, Acti $29.27M   France 30Apr92 ($27.11M), work
(ist Loan: &28.07M)  completed. Financed Dy WB. Item originally
proposed for financing from first project
loan. An additional 2,000 phones added in
'95. HTC linaticed.
Contract for supply of indoor coin                     Done
telephones (about 3.500) with AHT KUt of
Hungary 31lov92 ($2.159M). Work
completed.
An additional 15,000 coin boxes financed by
. HTC.                                       ___
h. Appropriale        Operation and Maintenance    (I) Measuring Instruments (A):                         Done
Operations and        equipment, syslems           Contracted with 5 suppliers Jul92
Maintenance facilities    SAR$11.7M, Acti.$6.66M  ($1.01M), compleed.
to support the                                    (ii) Measuring Instruments (B):                         Done
modernization of                                  Contracted withi 9 suptlens
HTC's network and                                  Sep'94,($2 44M). completed.
systems                                            (l1l) Operational Support System                       90% done
Initially bid for WB financing, negotiations
tailed. HTC to finance. Contract to Tandem
ot US. Pilot proiect working. Progressive
cutover plannea from 97.
(ivj National Call Simulator:                          Done
Contracted with Consultronics 23Jun94
($3.21m). Work completed.
(v) Ditectory Assistance System;                       Contract
BidS opened Nov '95. Award In Jun0.                    awarded
Installation by 97 (S1OM). HTC linanced to
allow Bank loan lo close.                                  Pagc 3
"Fy-'t Rit-vi'.                                         V016   Page 3



Objective        Ivcy Project        Implementation. Mleans                   Progress                 Comments/Act-   Status
Coniponent                                                                            ions & );ate 
Strengthen and  a. Develop a Master   Hire consultanls lo make      Contracted with ITU (International                   95% done
improve HTC's  Plan for management  recommendations               Telecom. Union) in 91 :consultancy works
management    and developinent of                                 for developing traininj and personnel
and operations   HTC's human                                      systems. Comnplete except for final report
Ihrough.       resources.                                        dtue in 96. WS Finance. ($0.25M)
technical
assislance and
training.
SAR $1.73M  b. Develop and        (I) Develop new management  Contracted with SWEDTEL 13Nov92                         Done
Acti. S1.66M  Implement measures   information systems         (SKr3.78M) and a Master Plan for IT
to Increase.                                      developed CGnsultancy finished.
efficiency and       (ii) Inlroduce a modern     Item canceled from WB funding. KPMG                     Done
productivity Including   commercial accounting    consultants hii ed, ROSS system (US lAS
MIS and accounting    systenm                     based syscrlie) selecled based on
systems                           _               recomiTlendalitns. Funded by HTC
c. Enhance HTC's    (I) Develop and use a         Compelitive procurement arrangements                   Done (&
marketing strategy   competitive procurement      being finalized tinder management of                   ongoing)
and develop a        system.                      strategic invesior partner.
competitive
procurement system    (ii) Develop and implement    Contract wilh BT Telconsult 22Sep92. (StPd           Done (&
an effective marketing      0.18M). Work completed. Note also that                 ongoing)      o
strategy.                   responsibility for marketing strategies of
valioUs valLe added products transferred to
appropriate suibsidiaries. New marketing
strticlure 1)(oposed for HTC in '96 under
guidance of s!ralegic investor.
d. Develop an optimal                             The digital overlay network was mosily                 Done
digitalization strategy.             .            completed by Ihe end of 93. new SDH
lechnology will be Inlrodticed from 96.
e. Develop a quality                             (I) Quality of Service Supervision:                     Done
control system                                    Consultancy contract with TELEBRAS S.A.:
7Ju193 ($0.38M). New quality control
system implementea and working.
(ii) Operation Support System:
Contract with NYNEX Network Systems                    Done
30Mar92 ($0. 1 8M) for design of new OSS.
Completed. See item (iv) under O&M
above.
f. Develop measures  (I) Created commercial      Created joint slock company on Dec 1991.                Done
to Improve effidency   accounting system (see 1*O)   Strategic partner selected and contract
made possible by new   above), and                signed on 22Dec93 wih MagyarCom (JV of
legislation.          i  vertMTVntoaoinl  Ameritech and Deutsche Tebleom) having   _
-_ !  I .                                               7fMI    Plite 4



Objective         Key Project           Implementation. Mleans                    Progress                   Commenis/Act-   Status
Component                                                                                  ions & t      _al _
stock company.                share of 30%;APV RI (State Holding
Company) 70%. On24 Dec95 MagyarCom
share increased to 670APV RI dropped to
28%. (IFC and otners hold 5%.)
(ii) Rebalance tariffs        PPI based tariff adjustment has been                      Done
introduced.                                       ._  |
.____________       SAR Est S15OM, Actl. $87.2M
llu2h I.auiAe
C.ADA I AUECAU IJINGAJ(I YUIIJNt_SI'AI. 1uo
Jail 7, 1996 11:10PM
I" 4%    n-~ 4



38
Annex 2
Hungarv - Second Telecommunications Project
Loan 3264 HU
Various Issues Related to Project Design and Implementation
1.    The Project and Sector Reform   A Major restructuring and reform of the telecommunications
sector in Hungary we realized during the implementation periods of the first and second Bank telecom-
munications projects. from 1987 to 1993. and 1991 to 1995 respectively. Both projects included
appropriate assistance and covenants for organizational and institutionai improvements to increase the
efficiencv, autonomy and commercial orientation of the telecommunications activities in the country.
From 1990, a major transformation of the telecommunications sector took place. Public telecom-
munications operations were transformed from a combined departmental statute of postal. broadcasting
and telecommunications services to a variety of telecommunications service operators, mostly privately
owned. The primarv operator. Matav is now 67% privately owned and has a sole concession for
providing all long distance and internationai services. plus local service in 36 of the 54 primarv regional
areas. Matav also has a joint venture for local service operation in three other areas. There are 13 small
operators providing local telephone services in the remaining areas. Licenses for value added services
such as data. paging and E-Mail are available on application to the Communications Authorirv.
2.     The project had an important roie in sector reform even though the loan itself was directed
primarilv to financing Mativ's development program and commercialization. The Guarantee agreement
of the loan included a commitment of the government to establish an appropriate sector reform strategy
and then implement that strategy within a short period of time. One of the strengths of this approach is
that it provided a catalvtic effect without dictating the actual line to be taken, especiallv at a time when
the government was activelv considering various approaches to reform of the major public utilities. In
the end. telecommunications became the first government owned utility to be privatized.
3.     A summarv of the major steps in the reform program is summarized in the table below.
Draft Summarv of Major Steps in the Reform of the Hungarian Telecommunications Sector
Date         Event                                     Remarks
1964   Preceding Posts    Mazyar Posta (MP) was entrusted with national monopoly of posta.
and Telecom Law    broadcasting and telecom services as part of the Ministrv of Transport
__________(MT)
1983   MP established as   Separated from MT. MP has its own budget. The Secretarv of State is
a state enterprise    the MP's President. MP retains the full responsibility for managing the
(SE)               telecom sector (i.e. the telecom "Reguiator"').
Jul.   First World Bank    Loan 2847-HlU of $70M inciuded funds for development plus studies to
1987  telecom loan        rationalize tariffs. improve commercial and financial operation and
manazement of telecom services.
1989  .MIP incorporated    The Ministrv of Transport. Communications and Construction (MTCC).
| into the Ministrv    The telecom division of MTCC retains the role of "Regulator".
1988   Separation of the    The role of "Regulator"' is separated out of MP. A Communications
role of            Inspectorate.  a  Frequencv   Management  Institute.  and  the
"Regulator".       Communications Authoritv are created.
Jan   MiP's operations   1 Posts. Broadcasting and Telecoms are separated.
1990  split into 3 parts   I
Oct.   Second World        Loan 3264 HU of US$150M to Matav to finance network development,
1990   Bank telecom       institutional strengthening of Matav. and to facilitate reform  of the
World Bank Aide Memoire - I lunearv relecommunications 11 Supervision Mission   Annex 2 - Page I



39
project            sector and set appropriate tariff framework.
Mar   Government          Includes pnvatization targets in iine with overall government program
1991   decision          to reform public utilities.
Dec,  Matav becomes a    100% owned by the Ministry of Transport. Communications and Water
1991  joint stock Co.     Manazement. "Resrulator' activities remain with this Ministry
1992   New Telecom Law   Under the law. NMatav is the oniv network provider for local, trunk and
enacted.           international services (telephone and telex), private operators are
permitted concessions to provide other services on application.
fun.   Matav ownership    AV Rt is the State Holding Co.
1993  transferred AV Rt
Oct.   Offers sought for    A public tender was issued seeking offers for the sale of 30% of Maiiv.
1993   part privatization    Matav's 25 year concession included an 8 year exclusivity for provision
of Matav           of national long distance and international telephone services, plus local
service for at least 29 of the 54 primary areas including Budapest and 4
of the S other major cities.
Oct.   Offers sought for   A public tender was issued seeking offers for the sale of a 25 year
1993   concessions for 25   concession. including an 8 year exclusivitv, for provision of local
primary areas      service. Areas were included in the tender based on the decision of the
local governments.
Nov.  Tariff decree       Before submission ot the concession offers, a decree was issued
1993                      adjusting tariffs to compensate for inflation and capping future increases
to the producer price index (PPI). A decree was also issued setting down
the rules for interconnection and revenue sharing between operators.
Dec.  Award of Matav      The successful bidder was MazyarCom, a joint venture of Deutsche
1993   shares and the     Telekom and Ameritech. The privatization for 30% ownership together
concession         with the concession was settled on December 22. 1993. The concession
was later transferred to Matav. The government retained 65% plus a
golden share.
Eariv  Award of           Eighteen of the primary area concessions were awarded to 13 new local
1994   concessions for    telephone operators (with foreign participation). Three of these areas
local service in   were awarded to a joint venture between Matav and Bezeq of Israel.
primarv areas      Seven areas were awarded to Matav of which 2 did not receive
acceptable offers. Tlhus Matav's concession was finalized at 39 primary
areas (29+3+7).
End    Transfer of Matav   Completion of the transfer of Matav's assets to the new small local
1995   assets to smail    telephone operators was begun during 1994 and completed during 1995.
operators
Dec.  Secnd shase of    MagyarCom purchased an additional 37% of _Matv's stock from APV
1995  Mvlatav             Rt.- increasing its ownership to 67%.
privatization
4.     Summarv of reasons for the partial disbursement of the loan  The project was prepared in
1989/90 and was designed to support Matav's investment program for 1991 to 1993. During the project
period. the Hungarian celecommunications sector was subjected to a number of important changes which
significantlv affected the use of the loan funds. Tihese changes included (i) the refinement of plans for
sector development resulting from improved planning skills of Matav and improvements in technology,
(ii) a significant reduction in the cost of optic fiber cable and transmission equipment. (iii) the
privatization of Mataiv which gave a significant injection of equity (S400M) and improved its access to a
international capial markets - thus Matav rationalized its approach to the use of its bank loans. and (iv) a
World Bank Aide Memotre - Hungary relecommunications 11 Supervision Mission     Annex 2 - Page 2



40
reduction in the coverage of Matav's local service concession. The Table above describes many of the
sector reform reiated events which occurred. Matav responded to all of these events by appropriately
changing its development plans to meet the needs of the sector while minimizing development costs. In
part. Matav. with the Bank's concurrence and in accordance with the loan agreement, used some loan
funds to procure previously unforeseen items for its investments. Tihe table below estimates the effect on
the use of the Bank's loan resulting from these events.
Loan amount
Factor                                       est. SUSM
Factors Reducing Loan Reauirements
Savings due largely to falling prices and some overestimation in costs.           48.5
Use of alternative financing. In some cases World Bank procurement guidelines     34.8
restricted flexibility in procurement and Matav chose other financing for reasons of
standardization or simplicity of contracting.
Some items proposed for this project were financed from Loan 2847-HU.              14.5
Some Items not required due to changes in technology or lower demand (e.g.         27.6
telex).
Factors Increasing Loan Requirements
Some items financed from the loan were initially proposed to be financed from      28.1
Loan 2847-HU.
New items, including public telephones and subscriber access network (cables)      34.5
Net reduction in amount of loan funds required                                     62.8
5.     Procuremen  Matav's performance on procurement under the project was satisfactory. Most of
the initial procurement for the Bank's loan was handled by Matav tender office and its agent
(Electroimpex). In 1992, Matav created its own special company, Inteltrade. to handle mostly
international procurement - initiailv from other sources of financing. After an initial delay, project
procurement activities improved and thereafter disbursement accelerated. Matav noted two important
points. First. the Bank's procurement guidelines and documents were verv helpful as a base for
developing Matav procurement skills and procedures. Second. the Bank's procurement guidelines were
found to be progressively restrictive as Matav's network become more and more sophisticated. MatAv
found that it became more difficult to use the Banks ICB procedures to purchase very sophisticated
equipment and systems because of (i) the need for greater standardization of equipment and suppliers.
(ii) rapid technological change which required complex specifications and contracts catering for the
evolution of such systems. and (iii) greater reliance on building a comfortable relationship of trust with
suppliers proven to have the highly specialized skills and experience required.
6.     Transfer of Assets: As a result of the tender of concessions to 13 private operators for provision
of local telephone service in 18 primarv areas. MatAv was required to transfer its assets in these areas to
the new operators. A small proportion of the assets transferred were funded from the Bank's loans.
Considering the small value of the assets transfered. the Bank confirmed to Matav and the government
that it would not seek anv prepayment of the involved loan amounts.
Hugh Laneke
C:ADATA\ECA\HUNGARY\AMEMANX2.1N176
July 9. 1996 12:00 PM
World Bank Aide Memoire - i[lungary redecommunications il Supervision Mission    Annex 2 - Page 3



41
Hungarian Telecommunications COmPanY
Hunizarian Telecommunications 1I Project                  Annex 3
|Performance Indicators               -
Hungary Telecam. 11, Proiect Code: 8468. Loan 3264 HU    IJ 1998
I      I 19881I 1989 I 1990   1991 I 1992 1 1993 1 1994  1995
1I.ConstructioW Program   I -    I -       - I         I -          -I       
(1) Total exchange caoacity   Plan                 1.28  51.34          1.77 i  07   2.37
(Miion)             'Actua'  105- M, DOM
(2) Connected subscribers   Plan       I         0.96  11.04 1 1.17 1 1.35 1 1.54   1.87
D0's (Million)       Actual I 0.85. 0.90   0.96   1;13.. .!Z ::,4                l
(3t Tehohone Oensitv      Plan            _      ~ -                 I              __
(DIa:s ber 100 oopulatio Actual
(4) Connected data subscnberiPlan        |3.0   4.501  5.801  7.10
( 'i               Actual i_=@
2. Quality of Performance
(13 Number of billing comcola0n25Plan25   0.38 1 O."j
(1 }  N i  Gi              .     ~      ~      ~~        ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . ...44.
(per I 0 su-oimnthino) I Actua025:^    ..__0.43_
(2) Number of faults      Plan   . .              11.20 1 11.00 1 6.50 1  5.50   4.50   4.00
(per 1 00 sub/monthl)  Actual .11I.6a. 1 i:20.    :..  53-.  5.  4.
(3) Effective calling date l%)
li) Budapest            Plan                   48.00 1 48.00 1 47.00 1 47.00  4O.I 51.00
..._ ..... "  >4S6j "O ->-7ra:928
:A=ctual  4600- 8A0             66OO~4~
(iiG Local inlana       Plan          |      r58.20 158.501 50.00 1 57.00 | 59.00 1 61.40
Actual  -                                       055:40  5530.  .
(ii) National long aistance  Plan  '1     . 152.SOi52.50 1 48.00 i 50.00  51.50 1 50.40
_________________T IActuai  52;L  SzOo. ---             .14    T  i
(ivl Intemational/incoming j Plan   _          34.00 I 34.00 1 33.00 1 38.00 1 41.50 - 45.00 I
_  Actual  -4z. 34.00         38:40  .30  41.3
(4) Staff/O000 DEL         Plan                  25.20  23.50 1 25.80 1 13.40
|___________________ Actual 8Actua
.-7 -------------
3. Financial Performance                  
(11 Debt service coverage (%IIPlan       j6.60   4.50   5.30   5.20              1   1.65
_A ctual                            --  ---------.------ 5--- --
(2) Self-financing Ratio 1%)   Plan      t                     44.90  47.706130.00! 35.30
Actual  .5                                                  _
(3) Net intemal cash generati IPlan              54.80I 48201 62.10I 6320
Actual I T.5O  7730 .
(4) Rate of return on net fixediPlan              20.0  29.10 1 31.00 1 34.40  110.00  22.10
assets %)               lActual      ftD  2257    bS  TMi 
Page 1



42
APPENDIX B
Second Telecomunications Project (Loan 3264-HIU)
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
The Borrower sent its contribution to the Bank on November 6, 1996. The Evaluation
Summary of this contribution is attached (2 pages).
A copy of the final Draft ICR was sent to the Borrower on April 16, 1997. They had no
further comments to the report.



43
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3264-RU
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The Second Telecommunications Project, covering the period of 1991-1995, set the
following project objectives:
* finalize digitalization strategy and implement the first phase,
* construct a digital overlay long-distance network with attendant connections
to local networks and large-volume customers,
* strengthen MatAv's market orientation and business capacities through
technical assistance projects,
* transform Matav into a joint-stock company,
* rationalize telecom tariffs by introducing a new price-cap formula,
e and strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework of the telecom
sector by introducing competition into selected segmnents.
Simultaneously, the European Investment Bank has granted a co-financing loan of
USD 100 million to improve the company's debt structure.
Implementation Experience
During the project period radical changes swept over Central Europe and Hungary.
Changes of the economic and political environment influenced the company's
performance to a great extent.
The Bank very helpfully applied its regulations to fit MatiVs newly emerging needs,
e.g:
- agreed to adjust the numerical values of the financial covenants in 1994,
- and managed the procurement and technical assistance projects very flexibly.
However, the changing regulation system of the Bank, or to be more precise, the
standardized procurement procedures of the Bank ran counter to Matav's own
network-element standardization efforts.
Rasults
The physical targets of the investment program were overfuililled during the project
period. Technical assistance projects were amended to adapt to the changing
requirements of the company. The financial, institutional, technical and training
objectives of the Action Plan were implemented mostly within the given timeline.



44
In the Staff Appraisal Report it was planned that 393,000 new subscribers would be
connected to the network. Overall, from 1991 to 1995, Matav Ltd. connected 897,000
new direct exchange lines at a growth rate of about 14% per annum.
During 1995 Matav Ltd. became a majority foreign-owned shareholders company,
connected 327,000 new subscribers' lines and public payphones, and operated a total
of 1.9 million DELs, equivalent to 24 DELs/100 inhabitants in its service area.
Lessons Learned
The World Bank's participation in the development of the Hungarian
telecommunications sector was of primary importance. During a decade-long
cooperation - involving Telecommunications Project I. and II. - the Bank and the
Hungarian authorities conducted a successful policy dialogue with a view to
determining the best ways to develop the sector.
The Bank - through the professional teamwork of its staff - gave an impulse to the
deregulation of the telecom sector and to the formation of a multi-player telecom
market.
The pnvatisation of MatAv - carried out in two phases: at the end of 1993 and of
1995 - fundamentally altered the firm's internal life and external connections. The
company now can have easy access to new financial sources and markets and to the
knowledge and experience of its new owners; Matav Ltd. entered into a new
development phase.
All the knowledge and internal discipline, that the World Bank shared with Mativ in
the past decade, helped us to better understand and accept the approach and ideas of
the new strategic owners and maintain and improve the achievements of the World
Bank projects.



45
APPENDIX C
IBRD Map No. 22348






HUNGARY                              20 r22
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROPOSED TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK
Proposed Long Distonce Links,                  Rivers
including Optical Fi6er Coble                Megye (County) Boundaries
Proposed Nodes:                       ---      International Boundaries
Q        Tandem Function
2       Future Exchange (1991-1993)                                                                 Ea           os6
*       Existing Exchange (1990)                                                K     r     13715/4555
*       High Traffic Subscriber Node                                        *zd                     SD
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EtmtdNme of High/05                            TraffaNJmic usri6erTsffcSF                                   MISsKOLC         )                  
1397516050   (total county  county town)                                                     ~~~~~~~~~13360/8525
I49                       TO05< 3,400/210
*                  5765/2965~~Eu                                 5520/3375050                Z&~dkh&~
15/225                              15138                  wd0/527512                                               0/i0834E5R
4~~~~~~>~~~Pd>p f                                                                                                Korcog  )
SZOMBATHELY                 5t                                                                                                                         r  /ttk>3O0/057 \> ojl
/  9385/3910 Vdrpolbta         48     5/0  (             i        cld              zse bil 
45/0                     VIESZPR/M27H 1 75/ 5       t296s      K       3        0/
ZAAGES/                                                                 KES                      0  _t SEE   > M k 
;~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                    Kik& sSr'ee 5/\
_^.               \,         t        11375/949~~~~~~765295          K6,   1397160
< ~~~~*                                                           Sikl ,/y \X d,n,.o*,zd r
8 770402705 KltOMETER                                                                          j 834
_46                                                     18 1 375/9 9









IMAGING
Report No.:        16585
Type:     ICR



