Report No. PID8291
Project Name                     India-Rajasthan Second District Primary (@)
Education Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Primary Education
Project ID                       INPE55455
Implementing Agency
Address Government of India, Department of
Economic Affairs,
Ministry of
Finance, 39-B, North Block, New Delhi - 110001
Contact Person: Mr. Rahul Bhatnagar
Tel: 3015839
Fax: 3012477
Email: rahul@finance.delhi.nic.in
Environment Category             C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                May 4, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 11, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 28, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background: In 1991 literacy in India was only 52
percent and one-third of children in the age group 6-11 years were out of
school. The Government of India understood the task of universalization of
primary education seriously and explored the possibility of resource support
from bilateral and multilateral donors. The World Bank extended for the
first time assistance to the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project in 1993
and supported the national District Primary Education Program (DPEP) in 1994,
followed by a series of DPEP in India. This project is seventh in the
series. Government of Rajasthan recognizes that primary education is key to
poverty alleviation and growth, and has sought to make it an investment
priority despite its current difficult fiscal situation. This effort is
evident in recent improvements in literacy across the state. The literacy
growth rate between 1991 and 1997 was the highest in Rajasthan at 16.5
percent compared to the other educationally backward Hindi speaking states.
Preliminary analysis the 2001 Census also reveals that Rajasthan witnessed
the highest increase in overall literacy rates across India for the last
decade at 22.53 and 23.94 percent for males and females respectively.
Low and inequitable enrollment: Social stratification and poverty have
resulted in a severe disparity in access to and participation in primary
school, particularly in rural areas and for girls, SC and ST students.
Low efficiency (repetition, dropout and retention): Dropout and repetition
rates in Rajasthan are high, and retention is poor. Government figures
indicate that for every 100 children enrolled in Class I in DPEP districts,
only 43 children completed Class V after five years. The dropout rate for
girls is 4.22 percentage points higher than for boys.
Poor teaching and learning outcomes: Achievement levels in Rajasthan are low.
The average score on a Baseline Assessment Survey (BAS) in mathematics and



language for Class II students is about 50 percent, and worse for Class IV
students at below 40 percent.
Inadequate pedagogical support and weak management: In January 1999, the
management of elementary education was shifted in Rajasthan from the
Department of Education (DOE) to the Panchayati Raj Department (PRD). This
structure has the potential to facilitate and strengthen decentralized
authority and resources to the local level which could lead to improved
community and school-based management. However, several weaknesses emerged
during the first 18 months, and may persist. The links between the technical
and administrative support functions of the two departments only exist in a
loosely defined relationship and needs to be strengthened.
Government Strategy: The GOR is acutely aware and deeply concerned about
educational backwardness in the state. According to recent bank studies
(Rajasthan Economic Update and Education Finance in the 1990s) from 1992
until 1998, its strategy had been primarily focused on increasing access to
primary educational opportunities through increased allocations to elementary
education; building public-private partnerships to facilitate greater
community involvement in the primary schooling process; and supporting
innovations which would break through social, economic and cultural
traditions to generate more demand. The Shiksha Karmi (SKP) and the Lok
Jumbish (LJP) Programs constitute two such schemes established with
assistance from Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) , now
supported by the Department of International Development (DFID) of the UK.
Physical access to schooling received a boost in July 1999 when the state
sponsored scheme which opened nearly 12,000 community schools, called Rajiv
Gandhi Swarna Jayanti Pathshala (RGSJP) scheme, across the state, 9000 of
which are in DPEP districts.
In addition to taking steps to eradicate issues of access and equity, in
1998, the first phase of Rajasthan DPEP was developed to cover ten districts,
becoming effective in October 1999.
2. Objectives
To assist the Government of Rajasthan (GOR) in its efforts to build state,
district and local capacity to ensure that all 6-10 year old children in nine
districts, especially from socially and economically disadvantaged groups,
have access to a five year primary education cycle of appropriate quality.
It is expected to result in increased enrollments and community involvement
in primary education, improved teacher performance, greater learning and
higher completion rates of the primary cohort. It is the second phase of an
ongoing project, Rajasthan DPEP, which currently finances efforts in ten
undeserved districts of the states.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's experience in India in implementing large-scale education reform,
and design of external assistance strategies to these programs has resulted
in it becoming one of the most important sources of technical support and
external funding in India's progress towards universal primary education.
This support has served as a catalyst to make primary education a priority at
the national level, and mobilized a range of national and state level non-
project initiatives. In addition, the Bank has been instrumental in
mobilizing and coordinating financial and technical support form other donors
in the sector (DFID, European Commission, and the Royal Government of
-2 -



Netherlands and UNICEF).
4. Description
(i) Expanding access, retention and enrolments. This component of the
project would include targeted interventions to reach marginalized groups
such as establishing alternative schools, short-term bridge courses to reach
out-of-school and dropout children, establishing ECE centers, providing
residential facilities for migratory children and services/appliances for
children with mild to moderate disabilities. The project would also provide
parateachers to new and overcrowded schools, giving preference to hiring
female teachers, and train SMCs in community mobilization and awareness
building, for which NGOs would be contracted where feasible.
(ii) Improving quality and achievement. This component of the project
includes the following activities to be financed under the Credit: (i)
instituting a holistic pedagogical renewal approach for continuous support
for teacher development for all teachers, parateachers, and ECE workers which
includes training in interactive and child-centered learning activities,
establishing supportive school and locally-based supervision mechanisms, and
providing need-based content training; (ii) provision of teaching and
learning materials (TLM), teacher guides, student workbooks being developed
to support the new textbooks and pedagogy; (iii) development and provision of
school libraries for all primary schools; (iv) distance learning programs;
(v) improving teachers' capacity to assess student progress; and (vi)
improving the physical school environment by empowering SMCs to manage school
improvement plans and activities.
(iii) Building capacity to manage primary education at the state, district
and local levels. This component includes the following: strengthening the
SPO to meet the expanded scope of DPE; establishing and strengthening DPOs
with a project coordinator, four program officers, financial and accounts
professionals, and support staff; establishing and staffing BRCs and CRCs for
teacher training and on-site professional support; providing training and
professional development opportunities to SIERT and DIET faculty; further
strengthening the Center for Educational Management as it develops as
supported in the first phase of Rajasthan DPEP; and building capacity at the
district and sub-district level for monitoring and evaluation through the
EMIS and FMS systems.
5. Financing
Total Project Cost       US $87.50 million, IDA $74.34 million
6. Implementation
Implementation period: September 1, 2001 through December 31, 2006
Executing agency:
GOR through an autonomous registered society called
Rajasthan
Council of Primary Education (RCPE) established on
November 3,1997
Project coordination:    Elementary Education Bureau of the Department
of Elementary Education and Literacy (DEEL) at the Ministry of
Human Resource
Development, GOI
Project Oversight: Elementary Education Bureau, GOI
- 3 -



The project will be implemented according to the framework established in the
DPEP Guidelines, as adopted by the GOI in 1993 and amended from time to time,
and the agreed Project Implementation Plan (PIP) prepared by the state.
General oversight and coordination of project implementation would be
provided by the Elementary Education Bureau (EEB, formerly the DPEP Bureau)
in the Department of Elementary Education and Literacy (DEEL) of the Ministry
of Human Resource Development (MHRD) of the GOI. Implementation of the
specific project activities will be the responsibility of the Rajasthan
Council of Primary Education, established in November 1997 for preparation
and implementation of the first phase of Rajasthan DPEP.
7. Sustainability
The financial requirements have been considered in the context of two
scenarios of economic growth rates, each resulting from a set of fiscal
reform projected at a constant proportion (2.1 percent) of state GDP and then
netted for anticipated real increases in teacher salaries. Under the partial
reform scenario, in the year following the completion of all three projects,
the anticipated increase in allocations might be just below the additional
liabilities required to sustain the projects, but in the following year they
should be more than sufficient and the surplus will grow. Under the bold
reform scenario, the situation is healthier and the anticipated increase in
the allocation should more than cover the additional liabilities.
The ability to sustain the proposed and existing projects will be the very
minimum required of state resources for the basic education sector. While
the three projects (Rajasthan DPEP I and II and Lok Jumbish) will enable the
provision of schooling to be increased in every district in the state, they
will not provide all of the facilities required for universalization. By the
time the full responsibility for the DPEP and Lok Jumbish projects fall on
the government, universalization would require an increase allocation to
primary education from 2.1 percent to between 2.4 and 2.6 percent of the GDP.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
DPEP has been operational since 1994. The lessons which have emerged through
the various DPEP projects over time have confirmed the strengths of some of
the initial design assumptions. More specific lessons from DPEP and, more
specifically, the first phase of Rajasthan DPEP include:
(i) establishing an autonomous State Implementation Society has facilitated
the flow of funds and streamlined management procedures and provided
flexibility in procedures for effective projects implementation; (ii) while
the quality of initial preparation is important, it is tenuous until tested
against field realities; and (iii) it was initially assumed that each DPEP
project would learn about initial project implementation from its
predecessors to avoid delays in start up which has not been the case across
the series of projects. The lessons are that building state and district
capacity take time, and much can be done in the preparation process to refine
plans. Continuity of competent and committed project staff for life of the
project is critical to the quality of implementation for which political will
of the borrower is required.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI): Yes
10. Environmental Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues: The proposed project would not raise any significant
environmental issues.
-4-



11. Contact Point:
Task Manager:
Susan Hirshberg
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 458-1953
Fax: (202) 522-3408
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 18, 2001.
- 5 -



