Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21955-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.5 MILLION (US$74.4 million equivalent)
TO
INDIA
FOR A
RAJASTHAN SECOND DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
May 26, 2001
Human Development Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 3, 2001)
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. I = USS0.0218
USS1.0 = Rs. 45.90
FISCAL YEAR
Aprill - March31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWPB             Annual Work Plan and Budget
BAS              Baseline Assessment Study
BNS              Bhavan Nimian Saniti
BRC              Block Resource Center
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CEM              Center for Education Management
CRC              Cluster Resource Center
DEA              Department of Economic Affairs
DEEO             District Elementary Education Officer
DEO              District Education Officer
DFID             Department for Intemational Development (U.K.)
DIET             District Institute for Education and Training
DOE              Department of Education
DEEL             Department of Elementary Education and Literacy
DPEP             District Primary Education Project
DPO              District Project Offices
EEB              Elementary Education Bureau
ECE              Early Childhood Education
EMIS             Education Management Information System
EMP              Environment Management Plan
FMS              Financial Management System
GER              Gross Enrollment Ratio
GOI              Govenmment of India
GOR              Govemrnment of Rajasthan
[CB              Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA              Intemational Development Association
ICDS             Integrated Child Development Scheme
LJP              Lok Jumbish Pathshala
MHRD             Ministry of Human Resource Development
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
NCERT            National Council for Education Research and Training
NFHS             National Family Health Survey
NGOs             Non-Govemmental Organizations
NSSO             National Sample Survey Organization
OBC              Other Backward Communities
PHED             Public Health and Engineering Department
PIP              Project Implementation rian
PMIS             Project Management Information System
PRD              Panchayati Raj Department
PRI              Panchayati Raj Institution (local government)
PSR              Project Status Report
RCPE             Rajasthan Council of Primary Education
RGSJP            Rajiv Gandhi Swarna Jayanthi Pathshala
SC               Scheduled Caste
SKP              Shiksha Karni Progran
SIDA             Swedish Intemational Development Agency
SIERT            State Institute for Educational Research and Training
SMC              School Management Committee
SOE              Statement of Expenditures
SPO              State Project Office
ST               Scheduled Tribe
TLM              Teaching and Learning Materials
UNICEF           United Nations Children's Fund
WECs             Ward Education Committees
Vice President:    Mieko Nishitnizu
Country Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:    Richard Skolnik
Task Team Leaders:   Susan E. HirshbergfN.K. Jangira



INDIA
RAJASTHAN SECOND DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           13
2. Financial                                                                          14
3. Technical                                                                          15
4. Institutional                                                                      16
5. Environmental                                                                      18
6. Social                                                                             20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     23
2. Critical risks                                                                     24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     25



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         26
2. Other                                                                            26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       26
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       43
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis                                               44
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  55
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     56
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   71
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 72
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                73
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          77
MAP(S)



INDIA
Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
South Asia Human Development Unit
Date: May 26, 2001                                 Team Leader: Susan E. Hirshberg
Country Director: Edwin Lim                        Sector Director: Richard Lee Skolnik
Project ID: P055455                                Sector(s): EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
Loan      [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [] Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 74.4
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                              Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                                Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       13.10            0.00         13.10
IDA                                                            72.40            2.00         74.40
Total:                                                         85.50            2.00         87.50
Borrower:
Responsible agency:
Government of India, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance
Address: 39-B, North Block, New Delhi - 110001
Contact Person: Mr. Rahul Bhatnagar
Tel: 3015839                 Fax: 3012477                 Email: rahul@fmance.delhi.nic.in
Other Agency(ies):
Department of Elementary Education and Literacy, Minstry of Human Resource Development, Government of India
Address: Room No. 116 - C, Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi - 110001
Contact Person: Mr. Sumit Bose
Tel: 91-11-3383451               Fax: 91-11-3070584                Email: sumitbose.edu@sb.ni.in
Govermnent of Rajasthan, Panchayati Raj Department
Address: Shasan Sachiv, Panchayati Raj Vibhag, Rajasthan Shasan Sachivalaya, Mukhya Bhawan, Jaipur - 380005
Contact Person: Mr. Ashish Bahuguna
Tel: 91-141-380012              Fax: 91-141-380012               Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         .2001       2002       2003      2004       2005   l  2006
Annual    9.30       22.50       18.80      11.20      8.20       4.40
Cumulative    9.30       31.80      50.60      61.80      70.00     74.40
Project implementation period: Five years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
LDC PAD FlCn, V.I UaO,, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project is the seventh in the series of the national District Primary Education Program (DPEP) in India
which was launched in 1994 to target educational improvements in low literacy districts across India. The
objectives of DPEP and this project are to ensure that all 6-11 year old children in nine districts, especially
from socially and economically disadvantaged groups, have access to a five year primary education cycle
of appropriate quality. It is expected to result in increased enrollments and community involvement in
primary education, improved teacher performance, greater learning and higher completion rates of the
primary cohort. It is the second phase of an ongoing program, Rajasthan DPEP, the first phase of which is
being financed by Rajasthan DPEP (I) and covers ten underserved districts of the state.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex l)
Key performance indicators of progress towards development objectives include: (a) improvements in
teaching-learning conditions and practices in the classroom; (b) establishment of ongoing pedogogical
support systems for teachers; (c) effective use of school and teacher grants; (d) increased involvement of
parents and School Management Committees (SMCs) in school construction, maintenance, improving
enrollment and attendance, and other school-level support; (e) established monitoring systems (EMIS,
PMIS, and FMS) and better use of data for planning and management; (f) increases in gross enrollment
rates; (g) increased retention and decreased repetition; and (h) gains in learning achievement.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report 21852-IN         Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/05/01
The project is consistent with the objectives outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated
March 13, 2001, of assisting India with its pursuit of poverty reduction to create an environment for
growth. The strategy outlined in the CAS to achieve this goal emphasizes, inter alia, the need to strengthen
the enabling environment for development and growth, including human resource development, and to
support critical interventions of special benefit to the poor and disadvantaged. Poverty is severe in
Rajasthan, and the state has among the lowest social indicators of all Indian states. Differences in
education development between states have been shown in Bank poverty studies on India to be a major
cause of variation in the incidence of poverty. Therefore, investing in primary education would facilitate
human development which should lead to higher productivity and incomes. Furthermore, the project will
target socially and economically disadvantaged groups (females, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes,
Other Backwards Castes, working children and children with disabilities) with the aim of reducing gaps in
education participation and attainment, to ensure equity in development and growth. The economic and
social returns to primary education are reported in Bank publications (Primary Education in India, 1998),
in Project Appraisal Documents for Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh and in various surveys (e.g.,
Family Health Survey and National Sample Survey).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
GOR recognizes that primary education is key to poverty alleviation and growth, and has sought to make it
an investment priority despite its current difficult fiscal situation. This effort is evident in recent
improvements in literacy across the state: according to the 52nd Round of the National Sample Survey
Organization report, the literacy growth rate between 1991 and 1997 was the highest in Rajasthan at 16.5
percent compared to the other educationally backward Hindi-speaking states, with a higher female literacy
- 2 -



growth rate than males at 18 and 14 percent respectively. Preliminary analysis of the 2001 Census also
reveals that Rajasthan witnessed the highest increase in overall literacy rates across India for the last
decade at nearly 23 and 24 percent for males and females, respectively. However, much remains to be
done. Issues within the five year lower primary cycle include the following:
Low and inequitable enrollment: Social stratification and poverty have resulted in a severe disparity in
access to and participation in primary school, particularly in rural areas and for girls, Scheduled Caste
(SC) and Seheduled Tribe (ST) students. 1997/98 data revealed a striking imbalance in the Gross
Enrollment Ratio (GER) based on household income level and gender: GER for girls in Classes I-V is 30
percentage points lower than for boys, and GER for ST girls is 47 percentage points lower than all boys.
Combining educational indicators with indicators of economic status, a Bank study portrays variation in
enrollment between students from wealthy and poor families across the state (Filmer and Pritchett, 1998).
In 1997, only two in five children in the poorest 40 percent of households in Rajasthan attended school
compared to over three in five children from the next 40 percent. Sociocultural influences also have a
negative impact on enrollment: 90 percent of children from the wealthiest 20 percent of households in
Rajasthan attend schools, yet in Rajput communities where income is relatively high, up to 90 percent of
girls still remain out of school. The persistence of obstacles to children attending school due to family
obligations, social, economic or cultural factors, or not attending due to poor quality remain.
Low efficiency (repetition, dropout and retention): Dropout and repetition rates in Rajasthan are high, and
retention is poor. Government figures indicate that for every 100 children enrolled in Class I in DPEP
districts, only 43 children completed Class V after five years. The dropout rate for girls is 4.22 percentage
points higher than for boys. Given these statistics and using a standard flow model, it is estimated that 60
percent more resources are being used than would be required if dropout rates were zero. Student dropout
is exacerbated by uneven attendance and the poor quality of education provided, indicated by low
achievement scores (see below).
Poor teaching and learning outcomes: Achievement levels in Rajasthan are low. The average score on a
Baseline Assessment Survey (BAS) in mathematics and language for Class II students is about 50 percent,
and worse for Class IV students at below 40 percent. The Public Report on Basic Education (PROBE)
published in 1999 identified reasons for low achievement levels, corroborated by the BAS, including: (1)
low student attendance, (2) low teacher attendance due to lack of commitment and/or demand from required
non-teaching activities, (3) insufficient instructional time at about 150 functional working days per year
with approximately four hours of instruction per day, (4) difficult textbooks, and (5) a lack of focus on
developing students' problem solving skills, due to inadequate pre-service and inservice teacher training and
an inappropriate curriculum.
Inadequate pedagogical support and weak management: In January 1999, the management of elementary
education was shifted in Rajasthan from the Department of Secondary and Higher Education to the
Panchayati Raj Department (PRD). This structure has the potential to facilitate and strengthen
decentralized authority and resources to the local level which could lead to improved community and
school-based management. However, several weaknesses emerged during the first 18 months. First, the
links between the technical and administrative support functions of the two departments only exist in a
loosely defined relationship: the State Institute of Education Research and Training (SIERT) which is
responsible for primary curriculum and textbooks remains with the Department of Secondary and Higher
Education while hiring, evaluation, salary distribution and school management are the joint responsibility
of the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRls) and the PRD. Second, supervision is the joint responsibility of
the Department of Secondary and Higher Education and PRIs, and the Block Elementary Education
Officers and teachers answer to both the PRIs and the departmental functionaries in the field. Capacity for
-3-



monitoring by the PRD needs strengthening, and the means of providing feedback to the system for
informed planning and decision-making are still weak.
Government Strategy: The GOR is acutely aware and deeply concemed about educational backwardness
in the state. Its strategy had been primarily focused on increasing access to primary educational
opportunities through increased allocations to elementary education; building public-private partnerships to
facilitate greater community involvement in the primary schooling process; and supporting innovations
which would break through social, economic and cultural traditions to generate more demand. The Shiksha
Karmi (SKP -- Education Worker) and the Lok Jumbish (LJP -- People's Movement) Programs constitute
two such externally-supported schemes established with assistance from the Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA), now financed by the Department for International Development (DFID) of
the UK. Both projects are jointly (public-private) funded, semi-autonomous schemes which have been
fairly successful, and are well known for their teacher training models and school mapping/microplanning
initiatives, respectively. Other innovative GOR projects include Saraswati Yojana which trains adult
women to educate girls in their homes or community centers, the centrally sponsored Total Literacy
Campaign, and the Digantar (an NGO) program for tribal education. Even with the success of these
programs, access to school remained an obstacle to many children in the state. Physical access to schooling
received a boost in July 1999 when the state sponsored a scheme [called the Rajiv Gandhi Swarna Jayanthi
Pathshala (RGSJP -- Golden Jubilee Schools) scheme] which opened nearly 12,000 community schools
across the state, 9,000 of which are in DPEP districts. Another 6,000 are planned, which could virtually
eliminate the need for new schools in all but the most remote communities. This large-scale program has
created near-universal access to the first five years of the eight year elementary cycle, yet providing such
rapid, wide-scale access to schooling requires additional emphasis on the quality of education provided, and
capacity of communities and officials to monitor and supervise the system. DPEP will provide pedagogical
support for RGSJP schools to improve their quality and functioning.
In addition to taking steps to eradicate issues of access and equity, in 1998, Rajasthan DPEP I was
developed to cover ten districts, becoming effective in October 1999. This project targeted districts and
blocks where SKP and LJP are not functioning, and serves to tackle issues of quality and institutional
capacity at the state, district, block and school levels more broadly. Since Rajasthan DPEP was originally
designed, GOR has taken two strategic steps which will have an impact on the education sector: (1) moving
all primary schools under the administration of the PRD as described above, and (2) bringing the three
largest primary education schemes of SKP, LJP and DPEP under one umbrella at the state level for better
coordination (the implications of these are discussed under Institutional Assessment).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Many technical, economic and sociocultural reasons can be identified for the low levels of literacy,
enrollment, and intemal efficiency. Low enrollment rates could be attributed to the lack of accessible
school facilities and for girls, to the absence of female teachers. In some communities, the absence of a
tradition in education or the direct and indirect costs of attending school prevents parents from sending their
children to school. Inadequate quality accounts for the high dropout and low achievement levels. The
strategies currently employed by govemment with donor assistance include increasing access, improving
quality, reducing costs through teacher redeployment and use of parateachers, and decentralizing
management of schools to local govemment and communities. Strategically, given the low levels of literacy
and school participation in the state, the project will focus on the first five years of elementary education
where the economic and social retums are highest. It will address the following basic needs of the system:
-4 -



Increased access to and retention in primary school. Efforts to increase access and enrollment will focus
on: (i) establishing alternative schools (AS) from a menu of options to be selected by the community in the
remaining, mostly remote, villages where schools do not exit; (ii) improving the school environment by
strengthening PRIs and community organizations to take a more active role in enrolling students, and
managing, supervising, and monitoring school activities; (iii) canying out targeted enrollment drives
designed to tackle specific social, cultural and economnic obstacles to children's enrollment and attendance;
(iv) selectively establishing Early Childhood Education (ECE) centers; (v) hiring parateachers to
supplement the existing teaching force; (vi) providing infrastructure to schools or AS as required; and (vii)
improving existing infrastructure through major repairs, additional classrooms where warrented due to
overcrowding or a strong enrollment response, and providing hand pumps and toilets (a known factor for
improving girls' enrollment and attendance).
Improved quality of teaching and learning, thus increasing achievement, completion and retention.
Efforts to improve the quality of schooling and the teaching/learning process will include proven
interventions of the broader DPEP program: establishing school cluster resource centers to institute a
holistic pedagogical renewal scheme for pedagogical support and follow-up for teacher development;
providing inservice training and school-based support to teachers; developing and supplying improved
instructional materials; providing financial support and training to teachers for developing, using and
procuring teaching and learning materials (TLM); providing funds to SMCs for school improvement; and
developing assessment systems both for teachers in the classroom to measure student progress and district
and state education officials to use in overall monitoring.
Strengthened state, district, block and community-level capacity for planning, management, supervision
and monitoring ofprimary edcucation. The same system of support to strengthen capacity for managing
primary education used in Rajasthan DPEP I and across the other six DPEP projects will be utilized.
Futhermore, the GOR has brought all projects and schemes in elementary education under one umbrella in
order to better coordinate capacity building efforts, to be overseen by the State Project Director for DPEP.
Therefore, the difference in this project from Rajasthan DPEP I is the need to provide better coordination
between the institutions which provide technical support for education at the state, district and local levels
such as the Directorate of Elementary Education, District Elementary Education Officers, and Block
Elementary Education Officers with the Panchayati Raj Institutions which now oversee primary education.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
(i) Expanding access, retention and enrollments. This component of the project would include targetted
interventions to reach marginalized groups such as establishing altemative schools, short-term bridge
courses to reach out-of-school and dropout children, providing incentives to focus group children,
establishing Early Childhood Education (ECE) centers, providing residential facilities for migratory
children and services/appliances for children with mild to moderate disabilities. The project would also
provide parateachers to new and overcrowded schools, giving preference to hiring female teachers, and
train School Management Commnittees (SMCs) in community mobilization and awareness building, for
which NGOs would be contracted where feasible. Civil works include new schools for buildingless
schools, alternative schools with an emphasis on designs amenable to multigrade teaching, additional
classrooms, toilets, and water supply.
-5 -



(ii) Improving quality and achievement. This component of the project includes the following activities to
be financed under the Credit: (i) instituting a holistic pedagogical renewal approach for continuous support
for teacher development for all teachers, parateachers, and ECE workers which includes training in
interactive and child-centered learning activities, establishing supportive school and locally based
supervision mechanisms, and providing need-based content training; (ii) provision of teaching and learning
materials (TLM), teacher guides, student workbooks being developed to support the new textbooks and
pedagogy; (iii) development and provision of school libraries for all primary schools; (iv) distance learning
programs; (v) improving teachers' capacity to assess student progress; and (vi) improving the physical
school environment by empowering SMCs to manage school improvement activities.
(iii) Building capacity to manage primary education at the state, district and local levels. This
component includes the following: strengthening the SPO to meet the expanded scope of DPEP;
establishing and strengthening DPOs with a project coordinator, four program officers, financial and
accounts professionals, and support staff; establishing and staffing Block Resource Centers (BRCs) and
Cluster Resource Centers (CRCs) for teacher training and on-site professional support; providing training
and professional development opportunities to SIERT and DIET faculty; further strengthening the Center
for Educational Management as it develops as supported in the first phase of Rajasthan DPEP; and
building capacity at the district and subdistrict level for monitoring and evaluation through the EMIS and
PMIS systems. District-based Financial Management Systems are expected to be fully functioning by the
second year of the project.
tIndicative           Bank-      % of
Component  .;                 Sector     Costs     % of   financing    Bank-
=_ h _ -.(UM.  Total    (l$   financing
Expanding access and retention    Primary            38.40      43.9      33.40      44.9
Education
Improving quality and achievement  Primary           28.20      32.2      23.20      31.2
Education
Building institutional and management  Institutional  20.90     23.9      17.80      23.9
capacity                           Development
Total Project Costs                 87.50     100.0      74.40     100.0
Front-end fee                   0.00        0.0      0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                   87.50     100.0     74.40      100.0
-6 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Fiscal Reform. The 1990s in Rajasthan brought a decline in economic growth and a serious fiscal deficit.
At present, the state is simultaneously experiencing a fiscal crisis while social indicators are among the
lowest in all India, despite being a leader in budgetary support for education (26 percent of the budget for
the sector, of which 57 percent is allocated to the elementary level). The financial implications for reaching
out-of-school children in Rajasthan is of crucial concem: within the current structure of expenditure on
education, an 11 percent increase per year is required to achieve universal primary education of appropriate
quality. Given the state fiscal situation, this level of increased expenditure is putting pressure on the
system. Govemment is undergoing an overall fiscal reform program which would create some fiscal space
to increase expenditure in the sector, while implementing different policies to sustain the development
process and provide greater access to basic education. The policies and reforms the project would pursue
include building capacity for decentralized management of primary schools; improving the efficiency of the
system; establishing altemative, community-based schools; and using parateachers in both community and
regular government schools.
Decentralized education planning and management. The project supports GOR's policy of establishing a
decentralized management structure for education to ensure cornnunity ownership of primary education.
In 1999, the GOR transferred educational planning, administation and management to the PRIs, or locally
elected self-governing bodies at the district and sub-district levels. School Management Committees
(SMCs) will be formed for every school with representation from the local Panchayat of females,
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and parents with disabled children to work with the Panchayat and
school to improve the learning environment. SMCs will also be involved in microplanning for school and
resource mapping, mobilization of community support for encouraging parents to enroll and retain children
in school, management of the community construction program and school oversight. For convergence of
resources, the SMCs will work with the PRJs to secure available government funds from various
government schemes such as the Jawahar Rojgar Yojana Scheme, the Employment Assurance Scheme, and
the Battees Zila Battees Kam Scheme -- and local contributions for the construction and maintenance of
primary schools. In addition, available monetary and non-monetary inputs will be mobilized by the SMCs
for enhancing the effectiveness of project interventions.
Redeployment of teachers and employment ofparateachers. The project will support the redeployment of
existing teachers to ensure a more rational and efficient use of existing resources, in addition to hiring
parateachers in new and existing schools. Currently, teachers salaries consume 97.6 percent of combined
plan and non-plan expenditure on elementary education. Therefore, to employ additional teachers required
to fill vacancies at government pay scales and service conditions will not help reduce unit costs in
education. The policy of employing parateachers has been adopted by many states, including Rajasthan, to
address both the need to expand access to primary education and the issue of declining resources as
described in informal World Bank reports. Parateachers are hired by the local community. Compared to
regular teachers, locally recruited parateachers have been shown in an evaluation of the SKP to help lower
dropout and repetition rates, increase learning achievement in the first few years of primary schooling and
improve accountability of the teacher to the school. They are hired at a substantially lower salary at
around one-fifth the nornal teachers salary, with Class 12 qualifications (reduced to Class 10 for females).
Parateachers working in formal government schools would be required to meet norms set by the National
Council of Teacher Education. The technical and financial sustainability of and career incentives for these
parateachers will be addressed during the course of the project. Student achievement under parateachers,
particularly for Classes IV and V, will also be monitored.
- 7 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The project will focus on the key areas in primary education which would help Rajasthan in its attempts to
improve social indicators, and promote faster development and more equitable growth. According to the
National Family Health Survey, in Rajasthan actual and preferred fertility rates fall consistently as a
mother's education levels increase, the largest fall (15 percent) being associated with primary schooling.
Mortality rates for children under five fall by 14 percent with primary schooling and 40 percent with upper
primary education attainment of mothers. There is a significant reduction in the proportion of unnourished
children as mothers' education level rises. In addition to improvements in social indicators, the adoption of
high yielding varieties, utilization of extension services and other schemes for raising family incomes is
linked to the educational attainment. More intangible future social benefits of the project include the
empowerment of future generations of women and the possibilities for more informed participation of the
state's citizenry.
The direct beneficiaries of the project would include all children aged 6-11 years in the nine project
districts. It would create approximately 200,000 places for the estimated 350,000 children who are still out
of school -- approximately two-thirds of whom are girls, and one third SC/ST, working children and
children with disabilities -- and seek to improve the teaching and learning environment for all primary
school going children, thus boosting achievement. Special needs groups such as working children, children
with mild to moderate disabilities, SC, ST, OBC and girls would benefit from campaigns to increase
awareness of parents; specific sensitization training for teachers, Panchayati Raj Insititutions (PRIs) and
education officials; and other incentive/provision schemes to ensure their full participation. The project
would also benefit about 12,000 children in the 3-6 years age group by establishing 400 ECE centers. It
would also improve the functioning of 5960 Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) centers which
would serve the dual purpose of preparing the younger children for primary school and allowing their older
siblings, usally sisters, to continue to attend school. Teachers will benefit through inservice training and
ongoing pedagogical support through CRCs and BRCs, as well as new, user-friendly textbooks and teacher
guides, and funds for developing teaching and learning materials (TLM). Parateachers in Rajiv Gandhi
Pathshalas and alternative schools would also receive intensive training and ongoing support. Villages and
communities will benefit from training for their expanded role in school oversight, management of the
school funds provided under the project, and exposure to and engagement with low-cost
construction/repair/maintenance technology.
The system as a whole would benefit from improved levels of internal efficiency. Bank analysis for
Rajasthan DPEP I has demonstrated that in view of the high dropout and repetition rates, the education
system requires the resources for 7.9 years of schooling to produce one graduate of the five year cycle (56
percent more). With improvement in quality expected from the interventions in the project and
corresponding improvements in retention levels, system efficiency is expected to improve in termns of
reducing unit and total costs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period:   September 30, 2001 through December 31, 2006
Executing agency:        GOR through an autonomous registered society called Rajasthan
Council of Primary Education (RCPE) established on November 3,
1997
Project coordination:    Elementary Education Bureau of the Department of Elementary
Education and Literacy (DEEL) at the Ministry of Human Resource
Development, GOI
Project oversight:       Elementary Education Bureau, GOI
-8 -



The project will be implemented according to the framework established in the DPEP Guidelines, as
adopted by the GOI in 1993 and amended from time to time, and the agreed Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) prepared by the state. General oversight and coordination of project implementation would be
provided by the Elementary Education Bureau (EEB, formerly the DPEP Bureau) in the newly created
Department of Elementary Education and Literacy (DEEL) of the Ministry of Human Resource
Development (MIHRD) of the GOI. The Bureau was established in 1993 and has had the responsibility of
general oversight for the six Bank-funded DPEP and two UP Basic Education Projects. Implementation of
the specific project activities will be the responsibility of the RCPE, established in November 1997 for
preparation and implementation of the first phase of Rajasthan DPEP, and managed by a State Project
Director (SPD).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project alternatives were considered, and the decisions taken are given below:
DPEP was developed in 1994, and districts to be financed under the program were selected based on
established criteria. At that time, the GOR decided that the project would be a Centrally Sponsored
Scheme (CSS) with arrangements as found in other DPEP projects. In accordance with the national DPEP
guidelines, DPEP in Rajasthan is implemented in the proposed project districts through the autonomous
Rajasthan Council of Primary Education. The possibility of using the existing Lok Jumbish Society or
Shiksha Karmi Society to implement DPEP instead of establishing the RCPE was discussed with GOR at
the time of developing Rajasthan DPEP I. Instead of opting for one of these programs to manage the CSS,
the GOR decided to bring all three programs under one umbrella for better coordination and in order to
capitalize on the strengths of LJP and SKP in the areas of community mobilization and teacher training,
respectively.
*   GOR requested that DPEP assume financial and technical responsibility for the existing RGSJP
schools. This was partially rejected by the Bank: according to the GOI's guidelines, DPEP funds are to
be an addition to the existing state government's education budget. Since the RGSJP had been
established by the GOR before DPEP, it was agreed that DPEP would not finance existing RGSJP
teacher salaries, but would provide support for teacher training and development, provision of TLM,
funds to SMCs, and links to the CRCs as provided to all formal government and alternative schools.
*   When the project was first discussed in 1997, the Bank advocated filling new posts and vacancies with
regular government teachers. The Bank now supports the GOR's decision to meet the demand of
increasing enrollments by deploying a combination of parateachers and regular teachers. Parateachers
would receive intensive training based on the successful SKP model of once yearly intensive training
and regular monthly support meetings, and follow a similar career path as agreed in Rajasthan DPEP I.
This intervention will be evaluated by a third party by the mid-term review.
*   SKP schools in DPEP districts were initially considered ineligible for DPEP support and excluded from
the school construction program. The schools are well-established community schools with a proven
record of enrollment, retention, achievement and community support which serve the most
disadvantaged communities, but for which buildings could not be financed by SIDA (original funding
agency). Therefore, it was decided that the project would provide funding for SKP buildingless schools
if the school has maintained enrollments of 50 children and has been operating for at least three years.
-9-



Other resources would be provided as per all alternative schools (e.g., TLM grants, school
improvement funds to SMCs, etc) to the extent to which they are not already provided by SKP.
*   Most schools being established under Rajasthan DPEP H are in remote habitations with populations of
less than 200, and 30 primnary school-aged children. The GOI and the Bank suggested revising the
state norm of providing all communities with a two-room school and two teachers. Instead, a
cost-effective one-room building specifically designed to accornmodate multigrade teaching and easily
expandable to two rooms if enrollments require, will be provided. Similarly, it was decided that urban
slums would be included in the project design to cater to the needs of the urban poor.
Dialogue with the GOI and the Bank is focussing on the need for continued improvement of data collection
and the need for independent, third party evaluation of the overall impact of DPEP.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
l                          I    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
.____i____:______________.____ _  __________________   (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Primary Education                 First District Primary           S             S
Education Project (DPEP I)
DPEP II (Cofinanced by the       S             S
Primary Education                 Royal Govemment of the
Netherlands)
Primary Education                 DPEP III (Cofmanced by           U             U
UNICEF)
Primary Education                 Andhra Pradesh Economic          S             S
Restructuring Project --
Education Component
Primary Education                 Rajasthan DPEP I                 S             S
Primary Education                 Uttar Pradesh DPEP III           S             S
Completed Projects:
Elementary Education              Uttar Pradesh Basic Education    HS            HS
Projects (I and II) -- World
Bank
Other development agencies
Primary Education                 DPEP in Madhya Pradesh
(financed by the European
Commission)
Primary Education                 DPEP II in Andhra Pradesh and
West Bengal (financed by
DFID)
Primary Education                 Lok Jumbish and Shiksha
Karmi in Rajasthan (originally
financed by SIDA, now
financed by DFID)
- 10-



Women Empowerment                  Mahila Samakhya financed by
the Royal Government of the
Netherlands
Primary Education                  DPEP in Gujarat financed by
the Royal Government of the
Netherlands
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
DPEP has been operational since 1994. The lessons which have emerged through the various DPEP
projects over time have confirmed the strengths of some of the initial design assumptions, including: (i)
establishing an independent society at the state level for implementation has facilitated the flow of funds
and project implementation; (ii) the importance of placing a cap on civil works expenditure, originally 24
percent and recently raised to 33 percent by the GOI for those states which have disbursed at least 50
percent of allocations to quality components; (iii) the need for a comprehensive and holistic package of
interventions for improvement of quality such as continuous teacher development, incentives to teachers to
change the leaming environment with TLM grants and advancement opportunities, and improved books
and workbooks; (iv) the importance of building capacity for planning and implementing educational
interventions at the district and subdistrict level, phased over time with higher levels of support from the
state in the earlier years of the project; and (v) the need to build community support for education is central
to successful implementation, and establishing SMCs early in the program using fully participatory
processes. More specific lessons from DPEP and, more specifically Rajasthan DPEP I, include:
(i)    Establishing an autonomous State Implementation Society has facilitated the flow of funds and
streamlined management procedures. However, it is essential that the project management structure
remains closely linked with the state's primary education system and structure to ensure longer term
ownership and sustainability of the program. This is reflected in the project design by ensuring the state,
district and subdistrict level Executive Committees and Resource Groups contain representation from all
relevant nodal and local government institutions/governing bodies, and that existing education officials are
implementors of the program. Rajasthan has taken this a step further by bringing management and
implementation of all projects under the SPD to ensure full coverage and integration of education
development efforts.
(ii) While the quality of initial preparation is important, it is tenuous until tested against field realities.
The project design, therefore, requires flexible implementation arrangements which allow investment
priorities to be determined by districts and blocks. In the case of Rajasthan, this flexibility is encouraging
better utilization of the skills and strengths already developed in existing innovative projects in the state.
(iii) It was initially assumed that each DPEP project would leam about initial project implementation
from its predecessors to avoid delays in start up. This has not been the case across the series of projects,
and in Rajasthan DPEP I in particular. The lessons are that: building state and district capacity take time
and is only accomplished by "doing" rather than planning, and that much can be done in the preparation
process to refine plans (e.g., hiring and training staff, developing and approving civil works designs, field
testing training modules, providing orientation to state and district officials, etc.). Rajasthan DPEP II will
avoid this slow start-up by using civil works and training designs from Rajasthan DPEP I, and provision of
retroactive financing which has allowed the state to hire and train DPEP implementors in the nine new
districts as of May 1, 2001.
- 11 -



(iv)   Continuity of competent and commnitted project staff for the life of the project is critical to the
quality of implementation for which political will of the borrower is required.
The Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Projects were recently completed. The projects were rated highly
satisfactory, however, some concems emerged which would need to be addressed more pointedly in future
projects. They include the need for more robust third party monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to track
progress towards project outcomes, the concem for further improvement and data quality and utilization,
the need to synchronize enrollment growth with teacher appointments to regulate teacher:student ratios and
the need for improved methods for collecting and using feedback from the field to maximize the potential of
community organizations, including SMCs, for school improvement.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The GOI has demonstrated its commitment, consistent with the revised National Policy on Education
(1992), to providing primary education to all children in India, with particular attention to girls and
children from socially and economically disadvantaged groups. Since 1994, the GOI has worked to
implement and adapt DPEP in 15 states (now 18 due to bifurcation) and 242 low literacy districts with an
investment of about US$1.3 billion. Overall enrollments in the country are up in the last decade, and
according to a study by the National Institute of Education Planning and Administration (NIEPA) in
Novement 2000, enrollments in DPEP districts have significantly outperformed the national trends. Real
public spending on elementary education grew by about 5.8 percent a year over the perioud 1991-1998.
The GOI aims to further progress, and is formulating a comprehensive 15 year scheme to cover eight years
of elementary education -- the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) or Education for All -- for which a provision
of Rs. 500 crores (approximately US$110 million) has been allocated in FY2001/02.
Rajasthan has traditionally been among the most educationally backward states in India. The GOR has
demonstrated its commitment to improving this record with a 53.2 percent increase in total real expenditure
at the elementary level between 1991-1998, which resulted in a 45 percent increase in enrollments during
that time. Preliminary results from the 2001 Census also reveal the highest increase in literacy rates in
India to be in Rajasthan at 23 percent since the 1991 census. The GOR has further shown its commitment
to improve access to the hardest-to-reach children by initiating and financing the RGSJP scheme, opening
nearly 12,000 schools with enrollments of almost 60,000 children since 1999.
Slow implementation start up for Rajasthan DPEP I has been overcome due to renewed commitment of the
GOR and the placement of key personnel in the SPO, resulting in expenditure nearly tripling in six months
since October 2000. The GOR has provided upfront financing for hiring and training key personnel in the
new districts. Recruitment and placement of key project personnel took place prior to negotiations, and
remaining posts would be filled by July 2001.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Banl's experience in India in implementing large-scale programs of education reform, and the design of
extemal assistance strategies to these programs has resulted in it becoming one of the most important
sources of technical support and extemal funding in Ihidia's progress towards universal primary education.
This support has served as a catalyst to make primary education a priority at the national level, and
mobilized a range of national and state level non-project initiatives. In addition, the Bank has been
instrumental in mobilizing and coordinating financial and technical support from other donors in the sector
(DFID, European Commission, The Royal Govemment of the Netherlands, and UNICEF). The Bank has
provided a lead role in designing and operationalizing joint project review mechanisms whereby a group of
- 12 -



education and management professionals, nominated by the donors supporting DPEP and the GOI, review
implementation progress bi-annually. The GOI and donors provide education specialists and managers
from participating DPEP states and the GOI exposure to the education innovations of other developing
countries. It also plays a key role in providing continued technical and financial support, which are
essential for ensuring that the potential benefits of past investment come to fruition. Rajasthan DPEP II
would provide the opportunity for continuing the Bank's international experience in this sector, as well as
assisting the GOR to move towards universal primary education in the project districts, with special
attention to the needs of girls and other socially disadvantaged groups.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR   % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Primary education and poverty reduction
The six previous DPEP documents and recent background studies for two Bank reports on poverty in India,
Achievements and Challenges in Reducing Poverty (1997) and Reducing Poverty in India (1998),
demonstrated the very close association between income poverty and low levels of schooling. Simulation
studies have also shown that, of all the major states, low literacy levels have contributed the most in
Rajasthan to slower reductions in the incidence of poverty over the past five decades.
Until recently, economic evaluations of the impact of primary education in India have relied on relatively
old income data from small surveys and from estimations of the proportions of households below the
poverty line. This is now changing and some of the current economic and poverty research in India being
undertaken by the Bank is utilizing the results of much larger government surveys, both of household
consumption and of the incomes of wage earners (see Annex 4 for details). The findings include:
m For those in wage employment, the wages of male primary school graduates are 7.8 percent higher per
school year compared to those of a non literate. Part of this results from higher wages among those in
regular employment and (a greater) part from the increased probability of gaining regular employment
compared to casual employment. For females, the increment is lower at 3.8 percent per year.
* The relationship between education and poverty is very strong. For instance, in Uttar Pradesh, 77
percent of the poor had less than primary schooling and of those households where the head had no
schooling, 52 percent were below the poverty line compared to 36 percent of those whose head had
primary schooling. Even after controlling for household characteristics that might be expected to
influence consumption levels (such as demographic composition, social status, principal occupation,
land owned, etc.), the predicted mean consumption level of the household rises appreciably with
increasing educational attainment of the household head.
*   While the poor have less education, they also appear to have lower returns to whatever amount they do
have. A study across eight states showed that in only two states (not Rajasthan) the income increments
associated with primary education are higher for members of scheduled caste households compared to
members of other households.
Overall, these three findings suggest that while the strategy of increasing access to primary schooling to
members of scheduled caste households will reduce the incidence of absolute poverty, it is not a sufficient
measure to reduce income inequality.
- 13 -



Determinants of the demandfor schooling
Access to schooling is constrained in Rajasthan. According to the National Sample Survey for 1995/96,
only 67 percent of all 6-11 year old rural boys were in school and 37 percent of rural girls (and 58 percent
of all 6-11 year olds). To better understand the reasons for such low and gender-differentiated levels of
enrollment, an analysis of the determinants of enrollment was undertaken during project preparation,
incorporating several child, household and school characteristics, based on a large household survey
undertaken in the state in 1993/94. Determinants include: (a) being male (increases the probability of being
enrolled by 42 percent); (b) the education of the mother; (c) household income per capita; (d) the effect of
caste; (e) distance to school; and (f) regular training of teachers. These results point to a number of
considerations for project design highlighted in Annex 4.
Cost effectiveness
The Education Management Information System (EMIS) which has been developed through the national
DPEP is currently being implemented in the ten districts of Rajasthan DPEP I. Until the system generates
the necessary data, knowledge of the efficiency of the primary school system in Rajasthan remains the same
as in early 1999 and as documented in the PAD. There, it was shown that if the results of the project in
terms of increasing retention rates are as good as those from the Shiksha Karrni Program, which shares
several of the interventions designed for the proposed project, the cost per graduate would fall by around 30
percent.
The major intervention to reduce the unit cost of primary schooling in the Rajasthan DPEP I districts is the
employment of approximately 3500 parateachers, based on the success of the Shiksha Karmi Program and
appointed locally by representatives of the community, at one fifth of the salary of a regular teacher. In
addition, since July 1999, the state government has employed an additional 12,000 parateachers from its
own funds. Parateachers will also be employed under the proposed project. Again, the understanding of
the educational implications of the employment of parateachers is limited to evaluations of the experiences
of similar teachers in the Shiksha Karmi Program. Compared to conventional schools with regular teachers
it appears that (a) both dropout and repetition rates are significantly lower, (b) learning achievement of
pupils are at least as high, and (c) accountability of the parateachers to their schools increases and teacher
absenteeism decreases (see Annex 4 for further details).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Levels, patterns and trends in elementary education expenditure: The GOR had one of the highest rates
of growth of expenditure on elementary education across the states during the 1990s. Real spending
increased by 53.2 percent between 1991/92 and 1997/98 and the proportion of Gross State Domestic
Product (GSDP) spent by the government on elementary education rose from 2.0 percent in 1991/92 to 2.2
percent in 1997/98, compared to the all India decrease from 1.4 percent to 1.3 percent of GSDP during the
same time period. The share of revenue expenditure allocated to elementary education rose from 11.1 to
13.0 percent over the same period. However, despite these significant increases, the growth in enrollments
has been such that the state has recorded one of the lowest increases in real spending per student.
Fiscal Impact:
The state's finances have been in decline over the past decade or so. The fiscal deficit which averaged 3.8
percent of GSDP in 1988-93 grew to an average of 5.2 percent over the next five years and to an estimated
level of 9.0 percent in 1999-2000, requiring considerable financing from the GOI and the Reserve Bank.
The GOR has stated its intention to reduce the deficit to 4 percent in the medium term. The education
- 14 -



sector currently accounts for around 23 percent of total government revenue and capital expenditures and
all new interventions require a consideration of the impact on the state government's expenditure.
Rajasthan DPEP I and II are in 19 districts, and Lok Jumbish is covering the remaining 13 in the state.
Implementation of Rajasthan DPEP I began in mid-1999 and the current phase of Lok Jumbish began in
2000. All three projects have two types of financial implications for the state govermnent: the contribution
while being implemented and the cost of sustaining the successful interventions once the project is
completed. For all DPEP projects, the state govermment funds 15 percent of project costs overall, though
the share varies by year as the proportion of recurrent costs financed by the Bank declines. In the final
year of the project, the state typically funds 75 percent of the recurrent cost. The total cost of Rajasthan
DPEP is around US$101 million with an annual average required contribution from the state of around Rs.
14 crores. The annual cost of sustaining the project was estimated to be Rs. 34 crores. The overall size of
Rajasthan DPEP II is slightly less than that of the previous project, and hence the state's annual
contributions and the costs of sustainability will be similar. The Lok Jumbish project is to be financed over
a five year period by the state government, GOI and DFID through shares of 1:2:3, respectively. The state
government's responsibility during implementation will be around Rs. 15 crores annually with recurring
annual costs at the end of the project estimated to be around Rs. 65 crores.
Rajasthan DPEP I will close in 2004, Rajasthan DPEP II in 2006 and Lok Jumbish in 2005. In Table 2 in
Annex 4, the state's total liabilities from the three projects during and after their implementation are
presented for each year to 2008. While the three projects (Rajasthan DPEP I and II, and Lok Jumbish) will
enable the provision of schooling to be increased in every district in the state, they will not provide all of the
facilities required to universalize primary education. See "Sustainability and Risks" section for a full
discussion of this point.
3. Technical:
As with Rajasthan DPEP I, capacity to manage and provide increased access to education and improved
teaching and learning are the project's main goals. The key general areas of technical concern in the PAD
for the first project remain valid for this project. They include concerns about the effectiveness of
parateachers, the complexity involved in changing classroom teaching practices, and the state's capacity to
design and implement effective human resource development activities that will improve teaching and
learning. This project poses an additional issue: how will the state ensure that the implementation of DPEP
in the nine additional districts is coordinated with implementation in the first ten districts, as well as across
the remaining 13 districts covered by the Lok Jumbish Program. The key technical challenge is how
effectively state-wide policies and procedures regarding change can be articulated, shared with education
staff across the system, and monitored and evaluated during implementation. The state's plans and staffing
for improving access (deciding locations for new education activities, the design and construction processes
for civil works, and mobilizing communities to encourage enrollment) pose less of a challenge to integration
than the efforts to improve the quality of education and improve learning outcomes.
DPEP aims to improve teaching and leaming by providing a program that serves the state's heterogeneous
population. It draws the design of interventions from the rich variety of existing educational delivery
systems in Rajasthan which provide services of equal quality and effectiveness through this variety of
educational delivery mechanisms. This is an ambitious aim to achieve over the life of the project. The
differences in socioeconomic and cultural conditions across the state are enormous, hence the need for
different delivery mechanisms to provide primary education. NGOs, the state-assisted Lok Jumbish and
Shiksha Karmi Programs, the state's newly introduced RGJSP, and DPEP alternative school delivery
mechanisms respond to the population's diversity. Many of the programs have well-designed and
well-implemented training and supervision systems and classroom materials for improving teaching and
- 15 -



learning. Some do not. The project's challenge for improving educational quality is to provide a common
primary education for all the state's children despite the differences in the population and among programs.
To do this, the state, through DPEP and in conjunction with LJP and SKP, is developing a comprehensive
state vision and action plan, which would be implemented and refined over the life of the project. It will be
a challenge to draw upon the best of the state's experience in improving teaching and learning and to take
an integrated approach to scale, while ensuring responsiveness to the needs of the many different target
groups, staff and students, that participate in primary education. Its implementation would be monitored
and revised as required to make sure that the activities (training, supervision, materials development, etc.)
touch all the target groups equitably and that there is an impact on teacher behaviors and student leaming.
The Bank expects that project investments in building the capacity of SIERT and the DIETs to assess
classroom practices, in changes in the way schools function and in teacher support systems will contribute
to the state's capacity to successfully achieve DPEP's goals.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
At the national level, DPEP is managed by the Elementary Education Bureau (formerly the DPEP Bureau)
in the Department of Elementary Education and Literacy of the Ministry of Human Resource Development.
The Elementary Education Bureau was formed in 2000 to amalgamate two separate Bureaus which had
program management responsibilities for donor and centrally funded elementary education schemes.
At the state level, overall implementation of Rajasthan DPEP is the responsibility of the Rajasthan Council
for Primary Education, an autonomous body registered under the Registration of Societies Act 1958,
established by GOR and headed by the Minister, Panchayati Raj and Elementary Education. The RCPE is
comprised of 24 members which include several ex-officio members directly or indirectly connected with
education and child development, some individual members who have distinguished themselves in the field
of education, and NGO representatives. The Governing Council is responsible for overall policy planning,
guidance and review of the project. There is shared membership with the Governing Councils of other
externally aided programs in the state such as Lok Jumbish and Shiksha Karmi. The State Project Director
is the convenor of the Council. An Executive Committee, headed by the Development Commissioner and
with the State Project Director as the Member Secretary, exercises all administrative, financial and
academic authority over project implementation. The State Project Office has direct responsibility for
project implementation and strengthens, supports and monitors activities undertaken by the project districts.
The district level office is headed by the District Elementary Education Officer, supported by other senior
officials. The district level governing body under the chairmanship of Zila Pramukh (Elected District
Chief) is expected to look after policy matters and review progress made by the district project office. It
consists of inter-departmental ex-officio members, public representatives such as the Pradhan (Elected
Block level Chief), Sarpanch (Village level Chief) and Zila Parishad (District Council) members,
educationists and teachers. The Executive Committee at the district level is headed by the District
Collector and is empowered to monitor and review implementation of the district plan. The District Project
Office is responsible for the day-to-day management, administration, implementation and monitoring of the
project.
Institutional Arrangements: The State Institute of Educational Research and Training (SIERT) is an apex
state level institution for educational training and research which is expected to provide support to the
project for pedagogical renewal activities. SIERT will conduct regional and district training programs and
activities related to curriculum and development of books and other learning materials. While the SIERT's
basic capacity is sound, it is constrained by inadequate staffing and a constraint of funds for recurrent and
- 16 -



routine expenditures. There is also a need for the faculty to update their knowledge and skills in the areas
of cognitive development, pedagogy and interactive classroom processes to make a more effective
contribution to the pedagogical renewal. The DIETs are in a similar situation. They are expected, with the
support of a District Academic Committee, to be established under DPEP, to provide support to the BRCs
for conducting inservice teacher training, and CRCs to learn methods of school-based professional support
to teachers. However, the DIETs are constrained by a deficit of faculty and a weak knowledge of primary
level pedagogy. The project is addressing this concern by strengthening professional and physical capacity
at all levels. The state has the advantage of some well-established NGOs with years of experience in
working in basic education. The challenge will be to utilize this resource in ways that allow for GORtNGO
partnerships that would not only help improve quality in the system but also contribute to building
institutional capacity in a sustained manner.
Administration of Elementary Education: Shortly after appraising Rajasthan DPEP I, responsibility for
elementary education was removed from the Department of Education, and placed in the Panchayati Raj
Department (PRD). The process of integrating technical support from the DOE and its nodal institutions
with the administrative functions of the PRD has progressed, but some transitional difficulties and
structural weaknesses remain (see Section B2, Main Issues and Government Strategy for a detailed
discussion). Primary sections attached to secondary schools remain with the Departnent of Secondary and
Higher Education, yet get covered under DPEP. Similarly, the teacher training and support institutions of
BRCs and CRCs at the subdistrict level are under the administrative control of the Panchayti Raj
departmnent, while the state level institutions to support the development of training are under the
Department of Secondary and Higher Education. This lack of clarity in roles and functions between the
technical and administrative streams adversely influenced the first year of Rajasthan DPEP I project
implementation. Although the situation has greatly improved, it will need continuous monitoring in the
course of project supervision.
4.2 Project management:
The State Project Office was established for Rajasthan DPEP I and is functioning with experienced
personnel in place. To cope with the expanded coverage of nine districts, nine additional posts will be
financed under Rajasthan DPEP II. It is expected that project management and implementation would be
smooth and witness fewer start up delays than Rajasthan DPEP I. Since Rajasthan DPEP I became
effective, the overall responsibility for DPEP and all other externally aided projects was shifted under the
State Project Director, creating a significant administrative burden on this post. The Bank believes this
decision is likely to bring about a natural convergence of the wealth of experience in the state through these
renowned projects and thus enrich DPEP's effectiveness, but it could also divert attention from more
focused management of DPEP. The GOR has agreed to place an Additional Director in the SPO to
mitigate the potential problems. This will require close monitoring.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Bank is currently carrying out a comprehensive Country Procurement Assessment Review. The first
phase, on central government procurement practices, is completed, and includes recommendations on a
public procurement law; simpler procedures for approval, challenge and debriefing; publishing contract
awards, and an annual opinion poll on corruption perception; blacklisting rules; and printing the cost of
each day's delay on all stationery dealing with procurement and contract processing. These are now under
discussion with govemment. India has been borrowing for nearly five decades. The RCPE is already
executing the first project and is familiar with Bank procurement procedures, and since the bulk of
procurement will be based on community contracting with no ICB/NCB risks are minimal.
- 17 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management arrangements are decribed in Annex 6. The project satisfies the Bank's
minimum financial managment requirements. The implementing agency for the project is RCPE. The GOI
would pass on World Bank funds to the RCPE through a funds transfer to the RCPE bank account. The
GOR will pass on its share of counterpart funding through a budgetary allocation under a single
identifiable line item.
An integrated computerized financial management system (FMS) is being developed for the project
financed by Rajasthan DPEP I. There was a considerable delay in development of the system in the first
phase of the project. The first iteration of the FMS software has now been completed. Operationalization
of the FMS is expected to be completed by October 1, 2001.
Disbursements: Disbursements from the IDA Credit would initially be made in the traditional system
(reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure), and would be converted to
the Project Management Report based disbursements after the successful implementation of the
computerized FMS. The target date for this conversion is October 1, 2002.
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$1.8 million (SDR 1.4 million
equivalent) would cover eligible expenditures for implementing activities after May 1, 2001. Retroactive
financing would support hiring and training of staff in the SPO, the District Project Office teams; rent,
equipment and vehicle hire for district offices; hiring and training of 49 BRC Facilitators and BRC building
rentals; hiring and training of 678 CRC Facilitators; training and formation of SMCs and BNS, collection
of initial EMIS data collection; orientation programs on DPEP for district and PRI officials; and other
activities included in the state and district plans and agreed at negotiations.
Auditing Arrangements: The accounts of the project will be audited by a firm of Chartered Accountants,
even though the Comptroller and Auditor General will retain its right to audit the project accounts. The
annual project financial statements audited by the firm of Chartered Accountants would be submitted
within six months of the close of GOI's fiscal year, as required under the Bank's Operational Policies.
Thus the following audit reports will be monitored in the Audit Report Compliance System (ARCS):
Implementing Agency        Audit                       Auditors
RCPE              SOE/Project Audit      A firm of Chartered Accountants
DEA              Special Account         Comptroller and Auditor General
The auditors, in the audit report for 1999-2000 for Rajasthan DPEP I, had made some observations
on slow utilization of funds, loss of interest, etc. RCPE has drawn a satisfactory action plan to
address these issues.
Special Account: A Special Account will be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India, and will be managed
by the Department of Economic Affairs of GOI. The authorized allocation of the Special Account would
be US$7.0 million, or about four months of average estimated disbursements from the IDA Credit. The
Special Account will be operated in accordance with the Bank's Operational Policies.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
- 18 -



The proposed project would not raise any significant environmental issues. The environmental issues
considered are primarily those related to siting (land clearing), construction, operations and maintenance of
buildings. Inappropriate construction designs, haphazard construction practices and poor operations may
have the potential to impact local environments. The project will incorporate provisions to mnitigate any
adverse environmental impacts from inappropriate construction practices and poor operation and
maintenance of sanitation and water supply facilities. Land for new and altemative schools will be allotted
from Panchayat owned land or voluntarily donated by a community member.
A framework of norms has been laid out in the construction mannual developed under Rajasthan DPEP I,
to be utilized in Rajasthan DPEP II, which enables standardization in construction designs, good
construction practices and management and operation procedures. During siting, few trees will be cut (on
the contrary, schools and communities often plant trees to enhance the environment), and landscape is
emphasized as part of design. All buildings will follow applicable construction building codes, including
those for water supply, sanitation (boys and girls toilets), ventilation, safety and hygiene. Such provisions
will also be reflected in bidding documents. Certificates will be issued by the project engineers on structural
safety (including earthquake resistance), waterproofing, ventilation and material usage, confirning that all
designs are carried out as per relevant Bureau of Indian Standard codes. Drinking water supplied at the
schools financed under the Bank project should meet the State standards, and appropriate monitoring and
evaluation will be ensured by the Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED).
The designs of new schools have been developed under Rajasthan DPEP I, and are specifically planned to
use low-cost local technologies, and to be expandable over time. Emphasis will be placed on utilizing
locally available materials. To keep costs low, construction will be undertaken by subgroups of the School
Management Committees (SMCs) called Bhawan Nirman Samitis (BNS) which will receive training for
this purpose, and will be supervised by engineers.
The project will closely coordinate with PHED in providing adequate coverage of water supply and
sanitation facilities, and with UNICEF for provision of hygiene education and sanitation packages for
schools. Primary school graduates are expected to become more environmentally conscious citizens since
the study of environmental issues and use of renewable resources form a part of the revised primary
curriculum. In addition, training will be provided for the use of school water and sanitation facilities, and
to develop awareness for good hygiene practices. It is likely that the knowledge gained in school on
environmental, health and hygiene issues will be shared at home, thus influencing parental attitudes.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
A construction manual has been developed under Rajasthan DPEP I which will be updated as required for
Rajasthan DPEP II. As part of project preparation, it was agreed that a detailed district-wise "Resource
Mapping" exercise would precede the civil works design and planning process, in order to provide
information regarding appropriate technologies and ensure protection of the environment. The training for
project engineers and BNS at the state and district level also includes a detailed module on environmental
aspects of school construction. The revised manual will contain generic environment management
guidelines and Best Environmental Practices (BEPs) in design and construction/expansion of schools and
water supply and sanitation facilities, including environmental standards for safety, waste disposal, use of
hazardous materials, esthetics and other aspects of the school construction program. This will help in
minimizing environmental impacts and generate environment awareness during design, construction and
operation of facilities.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable
- 19 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
See details on stakeholder consultations in social issues section below.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Prior to commencement of works, subgroups of the School Management Committees called Bhawan
Nirman Samitis (BNS) will be set up and provided with adequate training and resources to effectively
undertake the monitoring and supervision of construction works and operation and maintenance of water
supply and sanitation facilities. Trained engineers on deputation from different line departments'
engineering cells will be located in each district to ensure regular inspection and certification, and to
train/assist communities. Technical supervision will be carried out at every main construction stage by
district and block-level-based engineers. As in the other DPEP Bank-financed projects, third party
evaluation of environmental aspects of civil works would be conducted, if warranted.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
As the Project's Development Objective is to increase access to and completion of the cycle of primary
education of appropriate quality for all children aged 6-11 years, the key social issues to address are those
of differential knowledge, attitudes and behaviors related to primary education among various
socioeconomic groups. In Rajasthan, as in other parts of India, the following groups are particularly
disadvantaged with regard to education: girls; children of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other
Backward Castes, minorities, working and children with disabilities. Some of the reasons underlying the
differential access to and use of educational facilities are: (a) the low status of women and, thereby, lack of
value attached to girls' education; (b) the social stigma of 'untouchability' attached to Scheduled Castes;
(c) the remoteness, isolation and small size of tribal and, often, scheduled caste habitations; (d) some
differences in mother tongue between the majority population of an area and minorities (Urdu speakers) or
a few tribes (mostly in the westem part of the state not covered by DPEP); (e) emphasis given to religious
education among certain minorities; (f) dependence among poor families on child labor for economic or
domestic work; (g) seasonal migration among tribal people, wage laborers, and some occupational groups;
and (h) lack of awareness among parents and teachers of the potential to integrate children with mild to
moderate disabilities into regular classrooms, or unfavorable attitudes towards this.
The project proposes the following strategies (among others) to deal with the above problems: (i)
altemative schools with local parateachers for small, remote/inaccessible habitations; (ii) altemative
evening schools with parateachers for working children; (iii) short-duration bridge courses to bring girls
and working children into mainstream education; (iv) residential facilities for children of migrant families;
(v) adoption of Islamic religious schools (Maktab) as full-time altemative schools; (vi) provision of Urdu
teachers for this language minority; (vii) opening new and strengthening existing Early Childhood
Education (ECE) centers to give a head start to pre-schoolers as well as to benefit older siblings
(particularly girls) who look after them; (viii) awareness creation and enrollment drives emphasizing the
importance of education of girls and other disadvantaged groups; (ix) provision of facilities, such as
drinking water and toilets, which would make school attendance attractive particularly to girls and children
of the poor; (x) distribution of free textbooks and TLM to girls and children of disadvantaged groups; (xii)
Mother-Teacher Associations and Parent-Teacher Associations; and (xiii) a 'Girl Child Motivator' to help
-20 -



increase girls' enrollment and retention in areas where female literacy is below 15 percent.
Social Development Outcomes (SDO): The project's SDO would therefore be greater equality among the
different socioeconomic groups in terms of knowledge about schooling, and attitudes and behaviors among
parents as well as teachers and school administrators that result in increased enrollment, retention and
learning achievement among children of disadvantaged groups. Ultimately, educating children in the target
disadvantaged groups should lead to their future empowerment, greater economic productivity, and
increased quality of life. The project would bring about improvements in knowledge, attitudes and
behaviors and achieve equality in a number of ways. In particular, the project would monitor the closing of
gaps between girls and boys, and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe children and those from the
"general" category. It would also aim to improve the situations of minority, working, migrant and children
with disabilities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project aims to mobilize communities in the districts, particularly disadvantaged groups and women,
by (a) disseminating information on the potential of primary education and innovative approaches adopted
within the project; (b) establishing SMCs that would undertake inter alia motivation drives and enrollment
campaigns, micro-planning and school mapping, school construction, oversight of school enrollment and
retention of children, and of teacher attendance, parateacher selection, extra-curricular programs, tours and
awards, and managing school facilities funds of Rs. 2000 per annum; (c) orienting grass-root officials and
panchayat members; (d) meeting with ethnic/social groups and their leaders; (e) holding gram sabhas (i.e.,
meetings of all voting adults in a village) at which the SMCs would be constituted, school facilities funds
distributed, and activities planned; (f) establishing community mobilization teams at cluster level; and (g)
involving Block Education Committees in enrollment drives and mobilizing financial contributions. SMCs
would include representatives of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, women, minorities or OBCs,
youth organization, parents and gram panchayat members, in addition to school/ECE functionaries.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs were involved in conducting the district-wise Social Assessments for the nine Rajasthan DPEP II
districts and have participated in their design. They are expected to collaborate in its implementation in the
areas of community mobilization (particularly to ensure the enrollment/retention of girls, children from
disadvantaged groups, working children and children with disabilities), providing resource support for the
development of pedagogy, early childhood education, alternative schools and bridge courses, women's
empowerment, and research and evaluation. NGO representatives would also be members of the State
Resource Group and District Resource Groups which have input into project planning and implementation.
As mentioned above, SMCs comprised of private citizens would be established to plan, decide on, manage
or implement various aspects of the Project. The SMCs will be chaired by a local (ward) panchayat
member and will include other elected members of the panchayat (i.e., SC, ST and women members).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The village-level SMCs that are to be established under the project would ensure enrollment and retention
of children from disadvantaged groups and girls. The Cluster Resource Centers (one for 15-20 formal
primary schools, 4-6 Alternative Schools and 4-6 ECE Centers) would be responsible for overseeing the
SMCs and the community mobilization and environment-building activities, and planning related activities
such as enrollment drives. The Girl Child Motivators would be based at the CRCs. Training for the
CRCs, SMC, Girl Child Motivators and teachers would be developed with assistance from staff from the
- 21 -



Lok Jumbish and Shiksha Karmi programs which have significant experience in community mobilization
and community-based school development. The Block Resource Centers would assist the CRCs by
analyzing educational data, ensuring proper planning and functioning of the Alternative Schools, and
training teachers, parateachers, and ECE workers. State and district level resource groups would oversee
the development and utilization of adequate pedagogical inputs to improve the school performance of
children from socially disadvantaged communities. The District Institutes of Education and Training will
provide teacher training that is gender and socially sensitive.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The enrollment, retention and learning outcomes for each of the disadvantaged groups (girls, SCs, STs,
working children, disabled children) will be monitored throughout the project period through the
Educational Management Information System (EMIS) and Project MIS (PMIS) which monitor educational
indicators and project inputs, respectively, and achievement testing at the project's mid term and end. An
innovative Child Tracking System being developed under the project will collect data on all children in or
out of school, and monitor enrollment, achievement, attendance, while correlating these to their own
background as well as teacher and school characteristics (see Annex 2 for details). These data will provide
critical information on project progress toward achieving equality in education, and would in turn be
monitored by the Joint Review Mission mechanism set up for the whole DPEP. Systems will be designed
for appropriate analysis and feedback of the MIS data at cluster, block, district and state levels. Other
relevant key performance indicators on which information would be collected include: number of SMCs
holding regular meetings and actively monitoring teacher attendance and managing funds for school
improvement; completion of community-developed school mapping and microplanning exercises, children's
participation in the classroom and teachers' continuous assessments of children's learning; development of
school improvement plans by communities; access to drinking water and sanitation facilities; and
community contributions received. The State Project Office, with the assistance of a State Resource
Group, will cause a range of research studies to be carried out to provide additional information and
insights to relevant issues such as classroom practices and participation of girls, SC, ST, OBC and other
disadvantaged children. Proposed studies include assessments of: strategies for community mobilization;
strategies for girl child education; use of community resources in classroom teaching; and provision of
remedial teaching for weaker students.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability:
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   * YesO No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Gross Enrollment Rate of Tribal children in Rajasthan is 84 percent, which is lower than the state
GER of 101. There are significant tribal populations in five of the nine project districts. The GOR
- 22 -



estimates that approximately 20 percent of ST children in these areas do not enroll in school, and 80
percent enroll but have higher-than-average dropout rates. To address these problems and improve the
education situation for tribal children, the project will undertake the following interventions: (i) use the
Child Tracking System being developed under the project to identify out-of-school children, including in
Tribal Areas, and monitor progress of those in school; (ii) carry out awareness building campaigns to bring
these children to school and strengthen the community's role to ensure the sustainability of educational
improvements in tribal areas; (iii) open 298 altemative schools and 95 evening schools which would have
flexible timings and a community selected teacher to serve ST children in remote hamlets; (iv) offer 775
short-duration bridge courses for ST girls with the intention of mainstreaming them into formal primary
schools; and (v) develop a Tribal language inventory. Other project-supported benefits to ST children
include: free school supplies and writing materials, escorts to bring girls to schools, and 250 Girl Child
Motivators in CRCs serving clusters with high ST populations. CRCs monitor school, altemative school
and SMC level participation of tribal populations to ensure adequate access to project benefits. As the
project is district-based, the interventions for tribal areas and children will be tailored to the specific tribal
situations of individual districts, based on the surveys conducted, and included in the annual district plans.
During the process of conducting the district-based Social Assessments, Tribal communities were consulted
in order to identify issues and strategies which affect Tribal children's access to and participation in
primary school. The information collected forms the basis of the 'Tribal Development Plan' included in the
Project Implementation Plan (on file). District Office staff have received an orientation which includes
specific issues and strategies related to all special needs group in the project, and the State Project Office
has dedicated staff monitoring tribal issues and implementation of tribal strategies across DPEP.
Furthermore, the state and district project officials have established links to the Social Welfare
Department's Tribal Development Authority, a separate unit which specifically deals with Tribal affairs
and schemes, to ensure convergence of resources and better meeting Tribal communities' needs.
Evaluations of the impact of project inputs and processes, disaggregated by gender, SC and ST, across the
series of DPEP projects have been undertaken by the GOI and states to monitor progress. Specific studies
include, inter alia, analysis of pattems in access and retention, learning achievement, and classroom
observations studies to understand teaching practices including attitudes towards different social groups.
These studies will continue to monitor progress for tribal populations in Rajasthan DPEP II.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The major issues relating to the financial sustainability of the proposed project (and the two other on-going
projects) were summarized in section E2 and are more fully documented in Annex 4. The financial
requirements have been considered in the context of two scenarios of economic growth rates, each resulting
from a set of fiscal reform. Within each scenario, primary education expenditures have been projected at a
constant proportion (2.1 percent) of state GDP and then netted for anticipated real increases in teacher
salaries. This procedure provides estimates of the resources likely to be available to fund the state
government's responsibilities during the implementation of the projects, and to sustain the activities beyond
the project period. It is assumed that Rajasthan DPEP I will close in 2004, Lok Jumbish in 2005, and
Rajasthan DPEP II in 2006. Under the partial reform scenario, in the year following the completion of all
three projects, the anticipated increase in allocations might be just below the additional liabilities required
to sustain the projects but in the following year they should be more than sufficient and the surplus will
grow. Under the bold reform scenario, the situation is healthier and the anticipated increase in the
allocation should more than cover the additional liabilities.
- 23 -



The ability to sustain the proposed and existing projects will be the very minimum required of state
resources for the basic education sector. There will be additional demands, including the increased demands
for upper primary schooling as primary completion rates increase. As noted in section E2, while the three
projects (Rajasthan DPEP I and II, and Lok Jumbish) will enable the provision of schooling to be increased
in every district in the state, they will not provide all of the facilities required for universalization. Twenty
to thirty percent of school age children are still not in school. The costs of universalizing primary
education by 2005 and elementary education by 2008 have been projected in Annex 4. The implication is
that by the time the full responsibility for the DPEP and Lok Jumbish projects fall on the government,
universalization would require an increased allocation to primary education from 2.1 percent to between
2.4 and 2.6 percent of state GDP depending on the rate of economic growth and from 9 to 11 percent of
total government expenditure. If the parateacher scheme is not implemented, or if their payments increase
to those of regular teachers, the requirement will be around 3.3 percent of state GDP. The lower the rate of
economic growth, the more difficult it will be to allocate the required resources.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating              Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Competing demands on limited state            S         GOR has already demonstrated its commitment
resources in the current fiscal situation              to primary education as a state with the highest
may affect the ability to sustain project               growth in allocations to the subsector. The
interventions.                                          project supports lower cost delivery systems
including hiring of parateachers and low-cost
civil works designs.
The reform which shifted elementary          M          Control closer to the local level could improve
education to the Panchayati Raj                         administration and accountability. Phase II has
Department could serve to de-link                       integrated state and district level institutional
technical support for quality service                   inputs. At the district and subdistrict levels, all
delivery from the administration of the                 project officers reside in education offices but
system.                                                 are directly managed by the PRIs.
Interventions for socially disadvantaged     M          The project strengthens the level of PRI and
groups may not be well-targetted or                     community involvement in awareness
effective.                                              campaigns, greater involvement of NGOs in
mobilization efforts, and promotes ownership by
hiring locally selected teachers who community
members trust.
The nine project districts are among the      S         The project is employing alternative strategies,
most difficult with low indicators of                   learning from the successes of the SKP and LJP
education attainment which could result in              projects, which have have already proven
specific objectives not being met.                      effective in the Rajasthan context to target the
hardest to reach groups.
- 24 -



From Components to Outputs
The burden of additional districts on the  M         An Additional Director has been appointed to
SPO and bringing three large projects                each project to strengthen management, staff
under one umbrella could hamper project              from each project serve on joint committees to
implementation.                                      ensure coordination, and trainers and training
modules are shared among the programs. An
additional nine staff are provided for the SPO in
the project, and all DPOs will be fully staffed
and trained prior to project signing using
retroactive financing.
Wide use of parateachers could impact      M         The benefits regarding parateachers include
the quality of the schools.                          more accountability and less absenteeism,
incentive to perform in order to have their
contract renewed, more engagement of the
parateachers with parents and school
committees, etc. The project has developed its
parateacher training and teacher development
program based on the successful SKP model
which has been documented to produce greater
achievement at the lower levels of primary
education, and similar results to government
schools in Class 4.
Pedagogic renewal and training developed   M         State level resource institutions which have a
under the project may not be effectively             solid reputation nationally, as well as smaller
delivered.                                           well-known education NGOs are represented on
the committees responsible for developing
training modules and supervising
implementation of the training program.
Intensive training of trainers will take place
during the first year.
Rajiv Gandhi Swama Jayanthi Pathshala      S         RGSJP schools are being brought under the
(schools) have received little pedagogic             DPEP umbrella and will be provided extensive
and content support which, given their               teacher training, continuous pedagogic support,
numbers, could affect the overall quality            appropriate teaching and learning materials,
of education delivery in the project                 training for SMCs, and school facility grants.
districts.                                           The GOR will also be developing a plan during
the project for a possible career ladder for
RGSJP teachers.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
- 25 -



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
1  1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
E  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
0L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
(36~n E. Hirshberg          }          /;h   ee Sko                { Edwin Lim
Team Leader                       Sector Director                    Country Director
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
In order to assist the GOI in  Increased literacy rates,  National Education Statistics  Human capital development
alleviating poverty to create   especially among women and  (NES).               helps alleviate poverty and
an environment for growth,   socially disadvantaged groups.                      promotes economic growth.
the project would support                             Research studies.
GOR's progress towards     Reduction in the gender gap                           Sustained investment in
improving the quality and    in enrollment to less than 5%  Household survey data.  quality basic education is
delivery of basic social   and improvements in Social                            essential to enhance economic
services, and universalizing   Equity Indices (SEIs).  Human Development Reports. and social benefits, especially
access to primary education.                                                     for disadvantaged
Economic and sector work.   populations.
Census data.               GOR will realize its
commitment to overall fiscal
reform which would enable it
to sustain increased levels of
investment in primary
education.
Increased education
attainment (years completed).
A more efficient and effective
primary system in the state.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Assist the GOR in providing  Increases in gross enrollment, Educational Management    Improved access, retention
access to primary education of retention and completion  Information System (EMIS).  and quality of education will
appropriate quality which  rates, decreased drop-out and                         contribute to increased
would ensure successful    repetition in grades 1-5,                             productivity, better quality of
completion of the cycle to all  particularly for the target  Govemment of India and  life and participation in civil
children between the ages of  groups of girls, SC/ST  Government of Rajasthan    society.
6-1 1 in the project districts.   children, working children    Educational Statistics.
and children with mild to
moderate disabilities.    Twice annual supervision
missions.
A 25% percent gain in
leaming achievement of all   Leaming assessment tests
children in language and  administered at mid-term and
mathematics over the baseline project end.
assessment conducted for
preparation, disaggregated by  Qualitative studies.
girls, SC/ST, and urban/rural
data.
-27 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Increased access and    Of the estimated 350,000   EMIS data.                 The GOR is striving to
retention in primary       out-of-school children, the                           coordinate the variety of
education.                 project would create and                              programs which target the
attract 200,000 places,                               socially disadvantaged groups
especially for girls, SC/ST,                          available in the state of
working children and children                         Rajasthan.
with disabilities.
(a) increase in number of  1(a). approximately 880    Civil works progress reports,  Systems to carefully monitor
student places in formal   alternative schools        PMIS data, state and district  at the local level to ensure
government schools and     established, 2800 additional  education statistics    coverage are being
alternative schools;       classrooms.                                           established.
Disaggregated data on the
number of children from the
target groups in school.
(b) increase the number of    1(b). 3500 parateachers                            Local teachers selected by
teachers and parateachers;    provided, pupil:teacher ratio                      communities will be more
of 40:1.                                              committed to the schools and
students.
(c) enhanced support from  l(c). SMCs and WECs meet Block and district level     Awareness of and demand for
and involvement of SMCs,   regularly and are actively  surveys, BRC/CRC reports on education has increased,
WECs and parents in        working to have all children   VEC meetings/minutes.  along with communities'
enrollment drives and school  attend school full time.                           willingness to participate in
monitoring.                                           Supervision missions and   the process.
indepth evaluations.
2. Improved quality of     2(a). Improved quality of    Classroom observation    The right mix of inputs
education, thus increasing    textbooks, teacher guides, and studies.            (books, teacher training, etc.)
achievement.               workbooks and their                                   combined with a more
availability in the classroom,                        interactive and child-centered
(a) Improvements in teaching Greater and effective use of                        pedagogy will engage
and leaming practices in the  TLM and number of teachers  Reports monitoring teacher   children in a manner which
classroom.                 who have effectively utilized  absenteeism.           stimulates leaming, increases
the Rs. 500 annual grant.                             achievement and retains
children's interest in school.
Children's participation in the
classroom, especially girls and
socially disadvantaged groups. Student attendance records.
Increased time on task (hours
directly engaged in teaching   Regular surveys of
and learning activities) and   achievement, textbook
number of days in school.    availablity and inservice
training.
- 28 -



Teachers presence in the   Achievement studies at
classroom and ability to   mid-term and project end.
facilitate the learning process
(knowledge of content and
pedagogy) using a variety of
teaching methods.
Continuous assessment of
children's learning by
teachers.
(b) Improvements in the                                GOI conducted research and  Ongoing support to teachers
pedagogical support systems  2(b). 49 BRCs and 678 CRCs analysis.                  in content and pedagogy will
for teachers.               established and holding                                sustain the benefits of training
regular meetings for all   State and district institutions  and improve learning
teachers.                  field evaluations and       outcomes.
34,960 teachers provided   monitoring reports.
training in new pedagogy.
3500 parateachers receive 41  Twice'annual supervision
days induction training, and   missions and field visits.
30 days of additional training
annually.
Frequency with which
teachers receive guidance on
teaching in their classroom
and participate in professional
development activities.
The extent to which there is a
shift in the supervisors (SDIs)
role in assisting teachers.
Fully staffed DIETs, BRCs
and CRCs.
- 29 -



(c) Improvements in the    1800 major repairs and 3200  PMIS data.               A clean, safe and stimulating
overall school environment.  minor repairs undertaken in                         environment with adequate
exisiting schools, structurally  Field visits.        access to water and toilets
safe, well-lit and well                              contributes to overall
ventilated schools.       District and block level   satisfaction with school and
500 schools provided for  supervisors' reports.      retention of children,
buildingless schools.                                 especially girls.
7100 toilets, 2300 handpumps Engineer's reports.
and 380 PHED connections
provide access to safe water
and hygiene.
Evidence of community
contributions to the
classrooms and schools'
grounds.
Charts and children's work
displayed on the walls.
3. Strengthened state,
district, block and community
level capacityfor planning,
management, supervision and
monitoring ofprimary
education.
(a) Effective management of  The state, district and block   AWPBs.              The Dept of Secondary and
and planning for primary   levels undertake an annual                            Higher Education and
education.                 planning exercise which    Updated school maps and    Panchayati Raj Department
become aggregated to form    microplans.              must have close linkages to
the AWPB.                                             ensure appropriate technical
Communities and schools are Expenditure reports.      suppoTt and inputs from
able to develop a school                              educational entities, providing
improvement plan.          Evaluation studies.        feedback from the schools up
Resources and decision                                into the system to improve
making are managed closer to                          planning, and to build the
the schools.                                          PRI's capacity for managing
primary schools.
(b) Ability to effectively  School and community level  EMIS and FMS data.       same as above
monitor the system.        data, EMIS, and financial
management systems are     VEC and supervisor reports.
established, generate relevant
data, and the information is
incorporated into schools
improvement plans and
AWPBs.
(c) Enhanced community and 15,900 SMCs are established  Minutes of VEC meetings.    Community representation,
SMC role in managing and   and meet regularly with                               participation and ownership
monitoring schools.        clearly defined roles.     Panchayati Raj department   in addressing their school
SMCs monitor teacher      reports.                    needs is essential to achieve
attendance, assist with school                        the projecfs objectives.
repairs and manage funds for
school improvement.
- 30 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
Civil works                buildingless schools,      Cluster, block, district and    Increased number of schools
additional classrooms, major  state monitoring reports.  and classrooms, and
repairs, alternative schools,                         providing communities with
BRCs and CRCs, toilets,   Engineers' reports.        alternative schooling
hand pumps and PHED                                   structures will allow for
connections, total $20.7  GOI supervision reports.    increased access, ease
million.                                              overcrowding and improve
EMIS and PMIS data.        the learning environment.
Water supply and toilets will
assist in retention of children,
particularly girls.
Staff                      parateachers, ECE instructors, EMIS and PMIS data.    Hiring parateachers selected
Block and Cluster Resource                           by communities will provide a
Facilitators and other    Twice annual supervision    sustainable, cost-effective way
Resource Persons, state and   missions.              to improve access, and ease
district office personnel for a                      overcrowding, as well as
total of $22.7 million.                               enhance their commitment
and accountability to the
school and children.
Block and cluster level
support to teachers and
parateachers will help
Training                   teachers (once-off and     EMIS and PMIS data.
ongoing), parateachers
training and upgrading of    ICDS LS reports.
skills, ICDS staff and ECE
workers, BRC and CRC staff  Field visit reports.
in pedagogy, supervision and
teacher support skills, SMCs  Impact evaluation studies.
in school management, PRI
interlocutors in management,
supervision and
implementation, state and
district officials in planning,
management and
implementation for a total of
$8.6 million.
- 31 -



Teaching and Learning     provision of workbooks,   EMIS and PMIS data.        Improved instructional
Materials                 funds to teachers to develop                         materials which reflect the
TLM for use in the classroom  Supervisor's reports.  new pedagogy and their
(US$9.4 million).                                   availability will enhance
PRI and district FMS      learning outcomes.
Incentives (US$4.8 million   monitoring.
total) to disadvantaged                             Minimal funds to teachers for
students for school supplies                        materials leads to increased
and writing materials                               creativity and learning, and
improvement in the school
environment.
Community Mobilization    support to SMCs, funds to    CRC reporting.          Community involvement is
SMCs for maintenance and                            required to improve
school improvement,       PMIS data.                enrollments, attendance and
awareness campaigns, NGO                            completion.
involvement, access to
innovation funds for US$2.1                         Fully operationsl SMCs are
million.                                            necessary to ensure ownership
of schools and improve the
use of funds, monitor teacher
attendance.
Monitoring, Evaluation and   EMIS, PMIS and FMS at the  Joint review mission   Improved monitoring and
Implementation            state and district level; student monitoring.        evaluation, and feeding the
achievement; support to state  Mid-term and project end    information back into the
and district institutions;  achievement studies by April  system, can strengthen
strengthening DIETS;      2004 and October 2006,    planning capacity and allow
building state, district, block  respectively .     corrections to be made in
and local research capacity,   Reports from each component project implementationi if
and the Child Tracking    (EMIS, PMIS and FMS) and  required.
System (US$2.6 million).    CTS.
State and local capacity to
Action research from the local assess learning outcomes must
level.                    be improved to diagnose
weaknesses in teaching and
training, and obstacles to
learning.
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDIA: Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project
The project is the seventh in the series of the national District Primary Education Program (DPEP) in India
which was launched in 1994 to target educational improvements in low literacy districts across India. The
objectives of DPEP and this project are to (i) increase access to and retention in primary education or
Classes I-V, particularly for girls, schedule caste (SC), schedule tribe (ST), other backward communities
(OBC), working children and children with mild-to-moderate disabilities; (ii) improve the quality of
schooling and the learning environment in order to increase achievement; and (iii) build state and district
capacity to manage primary education. Those districts in India with female literacy rates lower than the
national average of 38 percent, based on the 1991 census, were selected for the DPEP intervention. Now
functioning in 18 states and 242 districts, DPEP has reached approximately 60 million children, established
about 16,000 new formal primary schools and 50,000 alternative schools which serve 1.8 million children;
provided inservice training and continuous support to nearly 850,000 teachers; contributed to reducing the
mean dropout rate from 25 percent in 1996/97 to 18 percent in 1998/99; and increased learning
achievement, particularly for Class I language and mathematics, in the majority of districts where the
program has been running for more than two years.
In Rajasthan, all 32 districts in the state are eligible for DPEP according to the criteria. State-wide female
literacy was 20.8 percent in 1991, or the second lowest in the country following Bihar. Of the state's 32
districts, 19 are being supported by the Bank-financed DPEP - ten in Rajathan DPEP I which became
effective in October 1999 and nine districts in the current project - and the remaining 13 districts are
covered by the DFID-financed Lok Jumbish Project (LJP). Synergies between the DPEP, Lok Jumbish,
and the third largest education program in the state, Shiksha Karmi (SKP) will be realized by the GOR's
recent decision to bring all education projects under one management umbrella to help achieve the overall
goal of universal primary education.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$38.40 million
Increasing access to and increasing retention in primary education, especially for children in social and
economically disadvantaged groups includes the following sub-components:
1. Targeted interventions to reach marginalized groups: Rajasthan has among the lowest social and
education indicators in India. Access to educational opportunities and social traditions particularly affect
girls, SC, ST, OBC, minority, disabled, working and migrant children. Interventions are being developed
in DPEP to reach these children broadly, such as providing bridge courses for overage children, especially
girls; flexible hours of schooling; and adjusting the curriculum to be 30 percent local specific to meet
children's needs. More specifically, the following interventions will also be employed to attract and retain
children of the target groups into school:
(a) SC/ST/OBC/minority children. The project would establish 890 of altemative schools in remote
habititations where SC, ST, and OBC children live. To reach minority (Muslim) children, Urdu will be
introduced into formal and alternative schools, and 185 of Maktab/Madarasa, especially those serving girls,
will be adopted as full-time altemative schools and provided with resources accordingly. Stationary, school
supplies and workbooks would be provided to all children of these groups at an average cost of Rs. 70 per
child.
- 33 -



(b) Girls. The GOR has already instituted a policy of providing free textbooks for all girls in Classes I-V.
In addition, the project would support the following interventions to attract and retain girls:
* Increase the number of female teachers in formal and alternative schools. The lack of female teachers
has been identified in the Social Assessments as a primary reason for the non-enrollment and poor
retention, particularly in higher grades, of girls in primary schools. Currently, 10,000 parateachers are
being recruited for lower and upper primary school, and the GOR has instituted a policy for reducing
potential female recruits' academic credentials, and has given preference for female candidates. This
practice will contine.
*   Early Childhood Education. The project will strengthen 5960 Aganwadi Centers under the Integrated
Child Development Scheme (ICDS) by providing training in early childhood education to the Aganwadi
workers, developing teaching kits to be used in the classroom, and extending the duration of the
centers' hours to coincide with school timings to free older sisters from child care responsibilities. In
addition, 400 new ECE centers will be opened attached to primary schools. The ECE component also
contributes to quality improvement and retention since it reduces enrollment of underage children in
class 1 and assists in preparing children for leaming (school readiness).
*   In villages/clusters where female literacy is less than 15 percent, a Girl Child Motivator (GCM) would
be appointed at the CRC to work with parents and communities.
   In these same clusters, a committee known as "Mahila Prerak Dal" will be formed and an orientation
imparted to identify out-of-school girls, interact with their guardians, serve as a link to the GCM, and
follow-up to monitor attendance of newly enrolled girls.
v   Incentive items such as stationary supplies and exercise books to SC, ST and minority girls in blocks
with female literacy below 15 percent (p. 96).
v   Rs. 250/month would be provided for escorts to bring girls to and from school in habitations where
distance to school is an obstacle to parents sending their girls to school.
(c) Working and migrant children. Rajasthan is faced with a serious issue of working and migrant
children involved in the carpet trade, quarry mining and agricultural work, in addition to household chores
and sibling care. Strategies to reach these children are (i) bridge courses of six month duration for children
to help them transition to the formal system; (ii) creating Alternative Schools in the evening; (iii)
establishing residential facilities for migratory children; and (iv) providing migrant children with identity
cards with their education credentials (ie., class, name of school, marks) in order to allow them to transfer
to a school in their new habitation. The GOR assured the Bank that NGOs would assist in conununity
mobilization and awareness building to bring working and migrant children into school, and that evening
Altemative Schools would not be constructed or permanently established for the purpose of providing
working children with educational opportunities. These AS would be seen as a temporary measure while
striving to develop mechanisms to eliminate child labor and bring all children into regular day schools.
During Negotiations, IDA received assurances that no Alternative Schools would be attached to factories
or mines.
(d) Children with mild to moderate disabilities. Training would be provided at the Block level to Key
Resource Persons in assessing children for disabilities. Where required, schools would build ramps, and
the Resource Persons would link the children with the appropriate groups to receive aids and appliances as
needed.
(e) Children in urban slum areas. Overcrowding of schools, distance, and poverty levels which require
children's assistance in household chores and other forms of child labor plague government schools in
urban areas. Additional parateachers would be financed in overcrowded schools and classrooms, and day
and evening alternative schools would be provided in urban areas, overseen by Ward Education
- 34 -



Committees (WEC) with parateachers from the immediate neighborhood.
(f) In addition to the above interventions, an innovation fund of Rs. 80 lakhs (approximately US$174,000)
or Rs. 20 lakhs per year (approximately US$44,000) for developing new strategies to attract and retain
disadvantaged children in alternative schools would be established, particularly for engaging NGOs,
individuals and educational institutions. There are two means to access the funds: (i) the SPO would
advertise the availability of funds for education improvement purposes; and (ii) an invitation for proposals,
to be evaluated on a competitive basis, to specific agencies and NGOs, institutions and individuals would
be issued. A committee comprised of the SPD, two education professionals, and two specialists from other
components in the project (e.g., Community mobilizing, etc.) would shorlist proposals from organizations
with a proven track record in innovation in primary education, community mobilization, and early child
development. Proposals would be evaluated based on their potential contribution to meeting project
objectives, technical merit, replicability, cost, and competence of the agency or institution.
2. Filling teacher vacancies and providing parateachers: Rajasthan enjoys a fairly comfortable
pupil:teacher ratio of close to 40: 1, although distribution of teachers is somewhat uneven in certain areas.
Redeployment efforts are undertaken annually in an attempt to maintain an appropriate pupil:teacher ratio.
There are 2350 vacancies in the nine project districts which are being filled by June 2001 with regular
teachers. Subsequent vacancies in formal primary schools and alternative schools would be filled with
parateachers. The project will provide 2600 additional parateachers to ease overcrowding in schools. The
GOR will appoint one female parateacher to each Gram Panchayat in the formal primary schools in all
districts. Additional teachers to be provided in existing schools would be calculated on the basis of
enrollments: up to 60 students would receive one parateacher, 60-90 students would receive two
parateachers, and above 90 students would be allocated three teachers.
3. Community mobilization and awareness building.
(a) School Management Committees (see also under Component 3, Building Capacity to Manage
Primary Education). A total of 15,900 SMCs will be established by election to support each school and
alternative school in the project districts. They will be comprised of the Sarpanch, representatives from
SC, ST, minorities, OBC, a parent of a child with disabilities, one third women, a retired educationist,
Aganwadi Worker, Youth Club member, a woman activist, two guardians (one male and one female), and a
headmaster. To build community ownership of schools, the SMCs will serve the following functions: assist
in conducting school mapping and microplanning exercises; work with community members to monitor
enrollment and attendance of children in schools; oversee construction and repairs of the school; manage
the Rs. 2000 school facilities grants; serve as a link to the Gram Panchayat to facilitate convergence with
other available resources for education development; and select parateachers from the commnunity.
(b) Convergence of resources. Efforts will be made at all levels to combine project human and financial
resources with other available complementary skills and funds. At the state level, the GOR took the
decision to bring the three largest education programs, DPEP, LJP and SKP under one management
umbrella. To this end, DPEP will benefit from the skills and knowledge of the other two programs:
community mobilization, school mapping and microplanning exercises in DPEP districts will be adapted
from the Lok Jumbish Program with assistance from LJP staff; and the parateacher training and support
system will be administered by SKP. Similarly, SKP schools in DPEP districts would benefit from
resources under the project (i.e., become eligible for school facilities grants or civil works). Other areas of
convergence at the state level include collaboration with ICDS in ECE, coordination with PHED in
providing adequate coverage of water supply and sanitation facilities, etc. UNICEF has developed hygiene
education and sanitation packages for schools and a training program which would be utilized under DPEP.
- 35 -



Similar efforts would be coordinated at the district level under the guidance of the District Collector, who
serves as Chairman of the District Executive Committee. At the sub-district level, a "community
mobilization team" and "intersectoral facilitating team" will be set up in Gram Panchayats to facilitate
convergence with other schemes to promote social empowerment and coordinating financial resources.
4. Construction and rehabilitation of schools and classrooms: As per the revised DPEP guidelines,
there will be an initial ceiling of 24 percent of project costs for civil works, which could be raised to 33
percent when the project has disbursed at least 50 percent of allocations to quality components. In 1999,
in order to provide all habitations with a school within one kilometer, the GOR established nearly 12,000
Rajiv Gandhi Swama Jayanthi Pathshalas (RGSJP) or conmmunity schools, of which 9000 are in DPEP
districts. The majority of these schools received funds for a two room building, but many remain
buildingless in the nine Rajasthan DPEP II districts. Furthermore, under SKP, many schools have been
functioning without buildings for one to five years or more with steady enrollments of over 50 children.
Under the project, about 500 one or two room schools will be provided to these community schools which
meet agreed criteria based on age of the school and enrollments. In addition, 880 of Altemative Schools
will be established in unserved habitations yet to be covered under the RGSJP scheme or SKP. Each will
be provided one or two room schools, depending on estimated enrollments. Designs of new schools have
been developed under Rajasthan DPEP I, and are specifically planned so as to use low-cost local
technologies, and to be expandable over time. Thus, if an altemative school is established with enrollment
of 30 children and receives a one room school, it can be easily enlarged to accommodate up to 90 children
if there is a future enrollment response. In addition to new schools, 2800 classrooms would be constructed
to ease overcrowding, 1760 schools will undergo major rehabilitation, and 3200 schools will be provided
funds for minor repairs. To keep costs low, construction will be undertaken by subgroups of the School
Management Committees (SMCs) called Bhawan Nirman Samitis (BNS) which will receive training for
this purpose, and supervised by engineers. A construction manual has been developed under Rajasthan
DPEP I and will be used for this project.
The GOR has taken a decision not to establish new formal primary schools except in those villages which
meet state norrns of size and enrollment, and has decided to finance these from its own rather than project
resources.
Project Component 2 - US$28.20 million
Improving quality of classroom processes and enhancing learning achievement in primary education
includes the following sub-components:
1. Instituting a comprehensive pedagogic renewal approach for continuous support for teacher
development: A 'cascade model' of training and support would be developed, as implemented in the other
six DPEP projects. In this model, a State Resource Group (SRG) is established with representation from
nodal public and non-govenmuental education institutions. The SRG provides guidance to the State
Institute of Education Research and Training, which develops and tests training modules, and trains the
DIET faculty in the districts. DIETs in tum would provide training and support to the BRCs which have
the primary responsibility of training the teachers. DIET staff would also train the CRCs, which will be
responsible for conducting monthly teacher, parateacher and ECE worker meetings, and for training the
SMCs.
Training. Three types of teacher training will be imparted to primary level teachers: (i) new altemative
school parateachers and parateachers in formal primary schools will receive an initial training of 41 days
the first year, and 30 days in each subsequent year from the BRCs, based on the SKP model of training; (ii)
- 36 -



all teachers in formal primary schools will receive six days of inservice training per year to introduce
pedagogic concepts and methodologies at the BRCs; and (iii) all teachers will attend monthly meetings in
the CRCs for support in curriculurn content and delivery mechanisms. At the pre-primary level, six days of
training annually would be held for 5960 ICDS workers and 400 ECE "preraks," who would also attend
monthly meetings at the CRCs. SMCs will receive three days of training from the CRCs each year in
community/school interface, improving the school and learning environment, managing the Rs. 2000 school
facilities grants, and community mobilization for improving enrollment and attendance.
Teacher training modules have been developed under Rajasthan DPEP I with extensive input and
consultation from teachers, guardians of children, subject experts, representatives from LJP and SKP, and
other non-governmental educational institutions. Needs were identified through a survey of 1000 teachers.
The first inservice module has been implemented in Rajasthan DPEP 1, and will be used in Rajasthan
DPEP II following an impact evaluation and feedback from teachers. The methodologies used in training
are designed to mirror those activities and learning processes promoted by the new, proven and
comprehensive pedagogic approach: they are interactive, student-centered, and participatory further backed
by school-based pedagogic support. The first module includes lessons on the development and use of
low-cost Teaching and Learning Materials (TLM) to support the new pedagogy, following which teachers
receive their first annual Rs. 500 TLM funds (see 2 below). Parateacher training is being adapted from
and designed with significant input from trainers of the Shiksha Karmi Program, well-known for its
strengths in community teacher training and support.
2. Instructional materials including guidebooks, workbooks and funds for TLM. Rajasthan has a
policy of providing all lower primary students in government and community schools (RGSJP and
upcoming alternative schools) with free textbooks. At present, books for Classes I-III have been revised to
reflect curriculum changes adopted by the state in 1999. Rajasthan DPEP I is funding the development of
teacher guides and workbooks to support the new textbooks and curriculum. Rajasthan DPEP n will fund
free workbooks for girls, SC, ST, working children, urban slum dwelling children, and children with mild
to moderate disabilities in the nine districts.
All teachers in formal government schools, alternative schools and RGSJP schools will be provided with
Rs. 500 annually for the purpose of developing and purchasing low-cost TLM for use in the classroom.
Teachers in SKP schools receive the equivalent in materials at the beginning of the school year during their
annual training, and will thus not receive the TLM funds through the project. Receipt of the grant will be
contingent on having received training in effective use of the funds to develop TLM to support interactive
learning in the classroom.
3. Distance Education: Rajasthan DPEP I is supporting development of distance education programs
using print, audio and video/media, and implementing programs in the second, fourth and fifth year.
Rajasthan DPEP II will support reviewing the impact of modules and the planning process. Rajasthan
DPEP II will also finance Rs. 28 lakhs of equipment and training in line with that developed under
Rajasthan DPEP I and with the support of the EE Bureau.
4. Libraries and Book Banks: The presence of books is a known determiinant of learning. The project
will fund school libraries in all lower primary schools and lower primary sections in upper primary schools,
providing Rs. 2000 the first year, and another Rs. 2000 in the third and fifth years. Storage facilities for
the books could be purchased with the Rs. 2000 school facilities grants provided through the SMCs.
Textbook Banks would be made available to supplement the free textbooks the state already provides.
-37 -



5. Achievement monitoring and student evaluation: The project would establish a District Academic
Committee (DAC) in each district which will prepare assessment papers with assistance from the SIERT
on the pattern of the baseline studies. These would be transmitted to the BRCs which would serve as a link
between the DACs and CRCs. CRCs will supply examination papers to schools, maintain consolidated
records of exam results for the cluster, and share results with teachers in their monthly meetings in order to
develop remedial measures to improve learning in weaker areas. Teachers will undergo an orientation on
continuous student assessment.
A baseline achievement survey has been conducted in all nine districts (see Tables 1 and 2 attached). At
the mid-term review in April 2004, classes I and 4 language and mathematics would be reassessed, as in
other DPEP projects, to measure increases in learning over the baseline. A final achievement survey would
also be conducted in time to produce the results by the project closing date. The objective is to increase
learning over the baseline by 25 percent.
6. Improving the physical environment: school facilities grants, toilets and water supply: The
presence of toilets and adequate water supply are known determinants of school attendance at the primary
level, particularly for girls. 7100 toilets, 2300 hand pumps, and 380 PHED connections will be financed
by the Credit. Furthernore, the state has agreed to investigate alternative water supply sources such as
rain water harvesting for areas where PHED connections or hand pumps are not feasible. The Credit will
fiuther finance annual allocations of Rs. 2000 to each primary school, to be distributed to and managed by
the SMCs, specifically for school improvement efforts and activities. The SMCs will receive training for
managing and accounting for the funds.
Project Component 3 - US$ 20.90 million
Improving state, district and subdistrict level capacity to manage primary education includes the
following sub-components:
State Level. As in the design of the wider DPEP program, a State Implementation Society (SIS) called the
Rajasthan Council of Primary Education (RCPE), a semi-autonomous body registered under the
Registration of Societies Act of 1958 was established in 1998 to oversee project planning and
implementation for Rajasthan DPEP I. The RCPE has a General Council (GC), headed by Rajasthan's
panchayat Raj Minister as President and the Chief Secretary as Vice President, with members from, inter
alia, Departments of Finance, Social Welfare, Women and Child Development, teachers, Director Lok
Jumbish, etc. which provides overall policy guidance to the state program. In addition, there is an
Executive Council (EC) constituted with the Development Commissioner as Chairman, which meets
quarterly and is responsible for overseeing all administrative, financial, and academic aspects of project
implementation. The EC has authority for managing project funds in addition to framing regulations which
guide implementation, as approved by the State government. The State Project Director is the
Member-Secretary of both the GC and the EC.
The State Project Office (SPO) established for Rajasthan DPEP I has been responsible for project
implementation, and monitoring activities and inputs at the state and district level. It will continue in its
current capacity, and expand as required to provide adequate coverage of the additional districts. It
provides oversight of project management, developing and implementing effective monitoring systems,
serving as a link to nodal state institutions such as the SIERT and the Directorate of Elementary Education,
ensuring appropriate procurement and financial management practices are adhered to, and building district
capacity to develop Annual Work Plans and Budgets (AWPB). The SPO also facilitates the integration
and strengthening existing state and district resource institutions with the Panchayati Raj Department to
support primary education development and project implementation. The Credit will support additional
- 38 -



staff, on a declining basis, and consultants required to manage the additional nine districts and to provide
technical and administrative inputs to reach the DPEP's objectives. The Credit will also fund additional
requirements for equipment and stationary/office supplies. Additional staff were selected after May 1,
2001, and will be funded through retroactive financing as agreed during Negotiations. In addition to
supporting the SPO, the Credit would finance the strengthening of the SIERT and DIETs based on
comprehensive institutional development plans to be agreed upon by the SPO, GOI and IDA, and expected
to be submitted by September 2001. A Center for Education Management (CEM) is being financed under
the first phase of Rajasthan DPEP. Upon full implementation of the agreed staffing and development plans
in Rajasthan DPEP I, further strengthening of the CEM may be considered under Rajasthan DPEP II based
on an institutional development plan to be agreed among the state, GOI and IDA.
To support the SPO professionals, State Resource Groups would be established for the areas of civil
works, ECE, training, gender, community mobilization, and Integrated Education for the Disabled (IED).
Resource Groups would also be established at the district and cluster level in different functional areas to
support the efforts of DPEP.
District Level. At the District level, a governing body under the chairmanship of the Zila Pramukh (with
the District Collector as vice-Chairman) would be established to guide policy and review progress related
to enrollment, retention and the quality of education. The governing body would be comprised of public
representatives, Block level officers, as well as educationists and working teachers. Parallel to the state
level, a district level EC would also be established headed by the District Collector. The EC would have
the authority to review implementation, and assist in matters of convergence with other resources available
to support DPEP interventions (e.g., water supply, scholarships for tribal children, etc.). The District
Project Coordinator (DPC) would be the Member-Secretary for both the GB and district EC.
DPOs would be established in each of the nine project districts, comprised of District Project Coordinators
(DPCs), professionals in the areas of teacher training and support, community mobilization, ECE and
gender, and monitoring and evaluation. Accounts Officers and Engineers would also be assigned to each
DPO to oversee financial management and civil works, respectively. The DPOs would oversee all project
planning and implementation of activities from the district to the school and community level. They will
coordinate the work of the District Institutes of Educational Training (DIET), establish and monitor the
Block Resource Centers (BRC) and Cluster Resource Centers (CRC). The DPOs will prepare AWPBs,
manage the flow of project funds and monitor the physical and financial implementation process. The
Credit would support establishing and running the office, rental of vehicles, and staff salaries on a declining
basis and purchase of furniture and equipment. Retroactive financing will be provided for DPO staff put in
place and their orientation/training from May 1, 2001.
At the block level, 49 BRCs would be established with the responsibilities of imparting inservice teacher
training for all teachers and ECE workers, induction training for parateachers, supervisory support for
CRCs, collecting and analyzing educational data, guiding SMCs and oversight of Alternative Schools.
Each BRC Facilitator would also adopt a CRC to develop a model school for teacher development and
support. The BRC would also serve as liaison to the Block level panchayat organizations and NGOs, the
Block Education Officer (BEO) and Block Development Officer (BDO), and hold quarterly meetings with
Block Education Committees (BEC) for planning and dissemination of studies. The BRC Facilitator would
oversee construction of the BRCs and CRCs with the BEC, for which a joint account would be opened. A
building which included training rooms, dormitories and a kitchen, along with the relevant furniture and
equipment would be financed under the Credit for 49 BRCs in the nine districts. In three districts which do
not have DIETs, enhanced BRCs may be considered to compensate for the additional training requirements
which may be required. In Blocks with less than 15 percent female literacy, a Girl Child Motivator would
be provided to strengthen efforts to improve educational opportunities for girls.
- 39 -



A total of 678 CRCs would be established to cover every 15-20 formal primary schools, alternative
schools, RGSJP schools, ECE and ICDS centers within a radius of 8 km. They play a pivotal role in
building the capacity of teachers through monthly meetings, training and interaction with the SMCs,
coordinating other mobilization efforts, monitoring enrollment efforts, and collecting data. A room with
requisite furniture would be financed by the Credit, and the CRC Facilitator provided a conveyance
allowance of Rs. 600 per month to conduct his/her work.
SMCs, as described above, would be established and trained to assist with school monitoring, enrollment
drives, monitoring student and teacher attendance, developing school improvement plans in consultation
with teachers, oversee civil works, and serve as a link to the PRIs for support and convergence of funds
from other schemes.
3. Monitoring, Research and Evaluation
The Education Management Information System (EMIS), Project Management Information System
(PMIS), and Financial Management System (FMS) would be used to monitor progress. EMIS formats are
being developed under Rajasthan DPEP I based on those used in other DPEP projects, and will be used in
the Rajasthan DPEP II districts. It is designed to measure progress towards achieving project objectives
regarding access and enrollments, reduction in the gender gap, targeting special focus groups, etc. The
Credit will fund development of capacity of district and sub-district staff to manage the EMIS and PMIS
systems, carry out school mapping exercises, consult with parents and community, prepare AWPBs and
monitor project implementation. Third party evaluation studies will also be carried out. There will be an
annual review of implementation covering physical targets for civil works, procurement, training, software
systems, investment proposals and financing requirements for the following fiscal year. The review will be
conducted in the first quarter of each year by DPEP. Progress reports and work plans would follow a
comnnon framework for all the districts in Rajasthan DPEP.
Progress towards achievement of development objectives will be measured in several ways: (i)
district-based assessment surveys conducted at the mid term and end of the project will monitor progress on
key education indicators against the respective baselines identified during preparation; (ii) classroom
observation studies will assess the impact of project interventions on the classroom climate and pedagogy;
(iii) FMS, in compliance with the Bank's LACI requirements will provide quarterly information on the
project's physical targets for civil woks, procurement and training, software system development and
expenditures; (iv) bi-annual supervision missions will be conducted by the Bank including review workshop
to report on progress and share experiences; and (v) two in-depth reviews will be conducted by GOI and
GOR of the project. The EMIS will provide age-specific enrollment data at village level, year-wise
retention rates by grade, gender and socially disadvantaged students for consecutive school years and
average student and teacher attendance data. This information will be based on school records in addition
to SMC attendance reporting mechanisms and sample surveys. The FMS will monitor disbursements and
financial management. The project would also fund capacity building for conducting research and
evaluation studies pertaining to the project objectives as well as to assess the effectiveness of innovations
implemented in the project. To cany out these studies the SPO may also consider contracting out to NGOs,
universities and other apex institutions.
Rajasthan DPEP II is introducing a new innovation for monitoring primary school age children called a
"Child Tracking System" (CTS). It is an integrated monitoring system which first provides every child, in
or out of school, with an identity card and number which contains pertinent information related to their
school, grade level, achievement, attendance, etc., based on the school mapping and microplanning used in
Lok Jumbish and DPEP. The system would monitor the child's performance and attendance, and link this
information to the teachers and the schools. School Management Committees would collect the data
annually, which would be validated on a sample basis and computerized at the district level. It will allow
- 40 -



for continuous monitoring of attendance, dropout, completion and achievement, even if a child should move
to another school or community. The CTS would be piloted in one block in each of the nine Rajasthan
DPEP H districts during the first year based on software being developed with the assistance of UNICEF,
DFID and the project. After being fully evaluated, it would be extended to all blocks.
Summary Baseline Assessment Surveys by District and Gender (for breakdown by SC/ST, see PIP)
Table I - Class ll
(Percen age)
District       Gender       Language    Mathematics
Bharatpur        Boys          83.45         77.15
Girls        81.35         77.15
Total        82.50         77.15
Bundi          Boys          57.70         66.40
Girls        55.10         59.35
Total        56.60         63.45
Churu           Boys         69.60         76.70
Girls        66.40         72.35
Total        68.15         74.75
Dholpur         Boys          68.85         77.40
Girls        69.90         73.30
Total        69.30         76.15
Dausa           Boys         53.80         54.15
Girls        44.15         42.95
Total        49.70         49.45
Hanumangarh        Boys          56.65         68.50
Girls        57.55         65.20
Total        57.10         66.75
Jaipur          Boys         75.20         76.70
Girls        75.50         75.05
Total        75.35         75.90
Karoli         Boys          65.05         66.45
Girls        64.55         61.45
Total        67.20         64.40
Sawaimadhopur       Boys         68.35          72.25
Girls        69.35         71.50
Total        68.75         71.95
- 41 -



Table II - Class V
(Percentage)
District    Gender    Reading      Mathematics    Word    Language
comprehension              Knowledge
Bharatpur     Boys       53.11        47.75       59.57      56.34
Girls     52.34         45.83       62.03     57.17
Total      52.77        46.95       60.60     56.69
Bundi       Boys       42.34         38.43       55.89     49.11
Girls     45.46         38.48       56.60     51.01
Total      43.60        38.45       56.17     49.89
Churu        Boys      42.91         38.08       58.60     50.76
Girls     43.17         36.25       58.77     50.97
Total     43.00         37.38       58.69      50.84
Dholpur      Boys       45.03         39.45       58.51     51.77
Girls     45.80         38.80       57.17     51.47
Total      45.26        39.28       58.11      51.69
Dausa        Boys       40.14        32.13       51.60      45.89
Girls     33.74         31.80       45.03     39.39
Total      37.69        31.05       49.09      43.39
Hanumangarh    Boys        39.74        35.58       54.91      46.76
Girls     37.43         34.58       51.74     44.59
Total      38.03        35.10       53.37      45.70
Jaipur       Boys       58.20        51.35       64.77      61.49
Girls     55.20         48.98       63.20     59.20
Total      56.89        50.30       64.09      60.47
Karoli      Boys       51.83         43.05       58.17     55.00
Girls     51.23         40.93       58.57     54.90
Total      51.60        42.28       58.31      54.96
Sawaimadhopur    Boys       50.60        45.95       59.11      54.86
Girls     52.60         42.88       55.26     53.93
Total      51.31        44.85       57.74      54.53
-42 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project
Local         Foreign          Total
Project Cost By Component                       US $million    US $million    US $milion
Expanding Access and retention                                     32.70             1.10          33.80
Improving quality and achievement                                  24.70            0.40           25.10
Building institutional and management capacity                      18.50           0.20           18.70
Total Baseline Cost                                                75.90             1.70          77.60
Physical Contingencies                                             4.70            0.20            4.90
Price Contingencies                                                4.90            0.10            5.00
Total Project Costs                   85.50            2.00          87.50
Total Financing Required                    85.50            2.00           87.50
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 87.5 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 85.03% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-43 -



Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis
INDIA: Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project
Economic
Primary education and poverty reduction
The six previous DPEP documents and recent background studies for two Bank reports on poverty in India,
Achievements and Challenges in Reducing Poverty (1997) and Reducing Poverty in India (1998),
demonstrated the very close association between income poverty and low levels of schooling. Simulation
studies have also shown that, of all the major states, low literacy levels have contributed the most in
Rajasthan to slower reductions in the incidence of poverty over the past five decades.
Until recently, economic evaluations of the impact of primary education in India have relied on very old
data from relatively small surveys and from estimations of the proportions of households below the poverty
line. This is now changing and some of the current economic and poverty research in India being
undertaken by the Bank is utilizing the results of much larger government surveys, both of household
consumption and of the incomes of wage earners.
An analysis of the employrnent data from the 1993/94 National Sample Survey corroborates the general
positive effect of primary education on income through estimates of the impact of education on the weekly
wage of wage eamers (Wood and Calandrino, 2000). For primary school male graduates, wages are 7.8
percent higher per year of school compared to a non literate. Part of this results from higher wages among
those in regular employment and (a greater) part from the increased probability of gaining regular
employment compared to casual employment. For females the return is less at 3.8 percent per year, or 19
percent over the five year primary cycle.
Recent research in India on the distribution of education across households, and of the effects of the
household's education (including primary schooling) on per capita household income has been undertaken
across eight states using two large sets of household survey data from 1993/94. While Rajasthan was not
one of the eight states, the findings, particularly for the northem states, are likely to be similar. To take the
example of Uttar Pradesh, the relationship between education and poverty was very strong. There, 77
percent of the poor had less than primary schooling. Of those households where the head had no schooling,
52 percent were below the poverty line compared to 36 percent of those whose head has primary schooling.
Further analysis of the data shows that even after controlling for household characteristics that might be
expected to influence consumption levels (such as demographic composition, social status, principal
occupation, land owned, etc.), the predicted mean consumption level of the household rises appreciably
with increasing educational attainment of the household head.
While the poor have less education, they also appear to have lower returms to whatever level they do have.
In order to allow analysis of the possible differential impact of household characteristics (including
education) on the poor and not-so-poor, households were separated into scheduled caste and others.
Educational attainment was much lower in scheduled caste households. On average, only 23 percent of the
members of these households had completed a primary schooling compared with almost 59 percent of the
members of other households. The analysis was broadened to compare the experiences of members of
scheduled caste households with the rest of the population and to investigate whether increased incomes
associated with each schooling level differed between the two types of household (World Bank, 2000). The
results indicated that the increases in income were lower for members of scheduled caste households in four
states (Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala), similar in two states (Uttar Pradesh and
Punjab) and higher in just in two (Karnataka and Orissa). On the whole, the increment in income resulting
-44 -



from a primary schooling appears to be less for scheduled caste households than for the general population.
Since there is a strong association between poverty and membership of a scheduled caste, it follows that the
strategy of widening access to primary schooling to members of scheduled caste households will reduce the
incidence of absolute poverty but, while necessary, is not a sufficient measure to reduce income inequality.
Determinants of the demandfor schooling
Access to schooling is constrained in Rajasthan. According to the National Sample Survey 52nd Round for
1995/96, only 67 percent of all 6-11 year old rural boys were in school and 37 percent of rural girls (and
58 percent of all 6-11 year olds). To better understand the reasons for such low and gender-differentiated
levels an analysis of the determinants of enrollment was undertaken during project preparation,
incorporating several child, household and school characteristics including subsidy programs, based on a
large household survey undertaken in 1993/4. In Table 1, a subset of the results is presented which
includes data on each of the variables found to be statistically important. Among the results are:
(a)   being male increases the probability of being enrolled by 42 percent;
(b)  the education of the father has a small but positive influence of the enrollment of both sons and
daughters; the education of the mother has a strong influence on a daughters enrollment;
(c)  household income (consumption) per capita, does not appear to be a determinant of whether or not
boys enroll but it has a strong influence on the enrolment of girls;
(d)  the effect of caste of the household is significant for both boys and girls, but is much stronger for
girls;
(e)  distance to school does not have a negative impact on boys enrollment but it is a factor for girls (at
the six percent level of significance);
(f)  the proportion of male teachers has a negative effect on the enrollment of boys but has no significant
effect on girls (contrary to the All India results for the same set of calculations);
(g)  the proportion of teachers who are fully trained has a positive and significant effect on enrollment
probability; and
(h)  of the several types of subsidy (coverage is very low for each), none appeared to have an impact on
the decision of whether or not to enroll a child.
These results point to a number of considerations for project design.
(i)   The finding that caste and gender themselves have significant effects on enrollment implies that
specific strategies need to be designed for various targeted groups of children. There is a need to
identify, and to remove, the constraints on girls in general and on low caste girls and boys in
particular beyond those arising from low household income and the low level of parental education.
(ii)  The finding that distance from school influences girls enrollment negatively suggests either that more
schools are required or that alternative arrangements need to be made to reduce the anxieties
associated with distance. Even though the population and geographic norms for citing schools have
been fulfilled across almost all of the state, it is apparent that the norms themselves are insufficient to
overcome the reluctance of parents to send their daughters to school.
(iii) The finding that the level of training of teachers has an effect on enrollment underlines the argument
that if parateachers are to be employed, their training and professional development programs need to
be a great deal of emphasis.
(iv)  The finding that mothers' education has a significant impact of girls schooling points to the need for
women's literacy and empowerment programs, either within or complementary to the project.
- 45 -



Table 1. Determinants of Schooling Enrollment in Rajasthan
VARIABLE                       ALL                    BOYS                GIRLS
Gender                       0.42                    n/a                  n/a
118.41
Father's education               0.077                  0.058                0.081
16.791                 14.361               15.451
Mother's education                0.16                   0.057                0.23
[3.081                 [1.31]               13.401
Caste                       0.12                   0.076                 0.16
[5.051                 13.081              [4.501
Per capita income                 0.20                  0.095                 0.28
12.851                 [1.26]               [2.681
Distance: primary                -0.016                 -0.0058              -0.021
School                      12.171                 [0.73]               [1.90]
Male/Total teachers               -0.13                  -0.18                -0.077
[2.641                 [3.231               [1.04]
Trained/total teachers             0.14                   0.089                 0.18
13.991                 [2.551               13.251
No. of observations               2355                    1271                 1084
Chi-squared                   Chi(24)                Chi(23)              Chi(23)
Statistic                   497.26                  184.67               246.11
Notes: Dependent variable: whether child was ever enrolled Yes=l, No=0. Probit model marginal effects reported
here. T statistics are in parenthesis. Figures in bold indicate the variable is significant at a five percent level. All
estimations use age dummies that are significant.
Cost effectiveness
The Education Management Inforiation System (EMIS) which has been developed through the national
DPEP and which is providing higher quality data on the schools than previous reporting procedures, is
currently being implemented in the ten districts of Rajasthan DPEP I. Until the System generates the
necessary data, our understanding of the efficiency of the primary school system remains the same as in
early 1999 and as documented in the Project Appraisal Document for Rajasthan DPEP I. There, it is
calculated that if the results of the project in terms of increasing retention rates are as good as those from
the Shiksha Karmi Program, which shares several of the interventions designed for the proposed project,
the cost per graduate would fall by around 30 percent.
The major intervention to reduce the unit cost of primary schooling adopted from other programs by
Rajasthan DPEP I is the employment of a total of 3,800 parateachers, appointed locally by representatives
of the community at under one third of the salary of a regular teacher. In addition, in July 1999, the state
govemment has also employed an additional 11,000 of these teachers from its own funds across the state.
Parateachers will also be employed under the proposed project. Again, our understanding of the
educational implications of the employment of parateachers is limited to evaluations of the experiences of
similar teachers in the Shiksha Karmii Program. Compared to conventional schools with regular teachers it
-46 -



appears that:
(a)    both dropout and repetition rates are significantly lower. The most recent evaluation of the
1993/94 entering cohort gives a 33 percent completion rate with a further 29 percent still in school. In the
1997/98 school year, 77 percent of schools had a daily attendance rate of 80 percent and over. The
Shiksha Karmi schools are located in the most remote and generally disadvantaged parts of the state; and
(b)   learning achievement of pupils are at least as high as government schools. The Baseline
Assessment Survey undertaken during preparation of Rajasthan DPEP I tested levels of learning
achievement in language and mathematics for class I and IV children in regular and in Shiksha Karni
schools. Scores in the SKP schools were higher in class I in mathematics in six out of eight districts and in
the language test in four out of eight with no significant differences in the other four districts. In the class
IV tests, scores were significantly higher in five of the eight districts, while there were no significant
differences in the remaining three districts.
Financial
Levels, patterns and trends in elementary education expenditure
The GOR had one of the highest rates of growth of expenditure on elementary education across the states
during the 1990s. Real spending increased by 53.2 percent between 1991-92 and 1997-98 and the
proportion of Gross State Domestic Product spent by the Government on elementary education rose from
2.0 percent in 1991-92 to 2.2 percent in 1997-98. The share of revenue expenditure allocated to
elementary education rose from 11.1 to 13.0 percent over the same period. However, despite these
increases, the growth in enrollments has been such that the state has recorded one the lowest increases in
real spending per student.
Fiscal implications of education expansion
The proposed project is the second DPEP project for the state and together they would be implemented in
19 of the states 32 districts. Elementary education in the remaining 13 districts is being enhanced by a
parallel project (Lok Jumbish) supported by DFID, the GOI and the GOR. Implementation of Rajasthan
DPEP I began in mid 1999 and the current phase of Lok Jumbish began in 2000. These projects are being
implemented in a wider context of the GOR's attempts to universalize primary schooling. This section of
the annex is divided into two parts. The first deals with the fiscal impact of the proposed project during its
implementation (together with the implications of the Rajasthan DPEP I and Lok Jumbish projects) and
with its long term financial sustainability. In the second part, the financial cost of universalizing primary
schooling across the state over the next five or eight years is analyzed. Over the past year, the GOR has
taken steps to begin to reform aspects of its fiscal situation. Implications of this set of reform measures,
and of possible additional measures, together with different scenarios regarding the implementation of the
new parateacher scheme run through both parts of the analysis.
-47 -



(a) Fiscal impact andfinancial sustainability
Rajasthan DPEP II will be the second primary education project in the state supported by the World Bank.
Rajasthan DPEP I was made effective in September 1999 and will be completed in late 2004. The
proposed project will end in 2006. Each of these projects has two types of financial implications for the
state government: 15 percent of the total cost while under implementation, and the cost of sustaining the
successful interventions once the project is completed. The total cost of Rajasthan DPEP I was around
US$101 million with an annual contribution from the state for averaging around Rs. 14 crores. The annual
cost of sustaining the project was estimated to be Rs. 34 crores. The overall size of Rajasthan DPEP II
will be similar to that of the previous project, and hence the state's annual contributions and the costs of
sustainability will be similar. The Lok Jumbish project is financed over a five year period, to 2005, by the
state government, GOI and DFID through shares of 1:2:3 respectively. The state government's
responsibility during implementation will be around Rs. 15 crores annually with recurring annual costs at
the end of the project of around Rs. 65 crores.
The first row of Table 2 aggregates the state's total liabilities from the three projects during and after their
implementation for each year to 2008. From these costs are subtracted the 'savings' which will arise in the
future from the state's intention to replace retiring regular teachers (assuming an attrition rate of two
percent) with parateachers who are employed on much lower salaries. The result is the net liability row
which indicates the additional levels of expenditure the state will need to allocate to fund and sustain the
projects. These can then be compared to the incremental increases in the budgetary allocation to basic
education, after allowing for annual salary increases of teachers. These sets of calculations are described
in the remainder of Table 2.
The first assumption is that the projected increases in the annual allocations to elementary education will be
maintained at a constant share of the state domestic product - GSDP - which was 2.97 percent in
1999/2000. The second is that the shares of this allocation which will be devoted to primary and upper
primary schooling again remain unchanged and (in the absence of precise kn.owledge of the shares) that
they reflect the relative numbers of teachers in each cycle. Out of the incremental allocations, a large part
is required annually to fund the increases in teacher salaries. In the past, between pay rounds, these have
been increasing by around two percent a year. Subtracting these costs, results in an estimate of the net
increments each year which would be available for financing the projects and another interventions, and
which are then cumulated.
The growth of GSDP (and consequently the allocation to education) has been projected by Bank staff under
two scenarios: (a) a partial fiscal reform which reflects the intentions announced by GOR in the 2000
budget to alter the trends in revenues and expenditures and which it is anticipated would result in an
increase in the growth rate of GSDP from 3.9 percent in 1999/2000 to 4.6 percent in 2005/06; and (b) a
bold reform which would include additional measures on both the revenue and expenditure side and lead to
a growth rate of GSDP of 5.4 percent by 2005/06. The two scenarios and their implications for incremental
allocations to basic and primary education, and consequently for the government's ability to finance the
costs and future liabilities of the primary education projects, are shown in the bottom half of Table 2.
Under each scenario, elementary education expenditures have been projected at a constant proportion (2.97
percent) of GSDP, a constant share of this allocated to primary schooling and then netted for the real
increase in teacher salaries of 2 percent a year. This procedure provides estimates of the resources likely to
be available to fund the state government's responsibilities during the implementation of the projects, and to
sustain the activities beyond the project period. It is assumed that DPEP I will close in 2004 and DPEP II
and Lok Jumbish will close in 2005. Under the partial reform scenario, there is a slight deficit in 2001/02
(of under Rs. 10 crores) but thereafter the required state contributions would be easily covered with the
-48 -



'surplus' rising from Rs. 26 to Rs. 82 crores in 2006. In the year following the completion of all three
projects (2007), the anticipated increase in allocations is a little below the additional liabilities required to
sustain the projects but the surplus increases again in the following year. Under the bold reform scenario,
and with a constant share of GSDP for education, the situation is rather healthier with the 'surplus'
increasing from Rs. 33 crores in 2003 to Rs. 121 crores in 2006. In the year following completion of all
three projects, the anticipated increase in the allocation should more than cover the additional liabilities.
Table 2. Rajasthan: Financing Project Liabilities (Rs. million)
2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008
Project Liabilities
Liabilities constant at 2000/01 prices    290   430   430   430   630   1130  1330  1330
(a)
Net Liabilities (b)                290   379   328   277   426   857   1022  970
Partial Reform
GSDP Growth Rate                   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.5   4.6   4.6   4.6
Expenditures on Elementary Education  1855  1933  2016  2105  2200  2301  2407  2517
6     5      7      4      1      3      2     9
Expenditures on Primary Education  1326  1382  1441  1505  1573  1645  1721  1800
7     5      9      4      1      5      2     4
Increments to Expenditure on Primary      558   594   635   679   724   757   792
Expenditure requirements to finance       276   288   302   314   328   344   360
2.0% increase in teacher salaries
Net increments - Primary                  282   306   333   365   396   413   432
Cumulative net increments - Primary       282   588   921   1286  1682  2095  2527
Financing Project Liabilities
Partial Reform                            -97   260   644   860   825   1073  1557
Bold Reform                               -47    329   790   1102  1206  1606  2256
(a) includes GOR 's contribution during implementation plus recurring liabilities at end of each project
(b) project liabilities after deducting savings from filling vacancies with para-teachers
The ability to provide for and sustain the existing and proposed projects is the very minimum required of
state resources for the basic education sector. There will be additional demands. While the large numbers
of parateachers will be employed on a quarter of the salary of a regular teacher, significant funds will be
required for their training and professional support and development if they are to be effective. Further, the
increased demands for upper primary schooling will be strong and could compete with primary funding.
Finally, while the three projects (Rajasthan DPEP I and II, and Lok Jumbish III) will enable the provision
- 49 -



of schooling to be increased in every district in the state, they will not provide all of the facilities required
for universalization. Twenty to thirty percent of school age children are still not in school. In July 1999,
the GOR established over 11,000 RGSJP school, each with a parateacher, and there is an intention to
establish another 6000 in the coming months. In addition to the recurring expenditures which will be
required for each of these needs, there are also very large requirements for more and improved buildings for
existing classes as well as for those currently out of school.
Financing the universalization of primary schooling in Rajasthan
Rajasthan is one of India's poorest and educationally most disadvantaged states. The state has been
implementing the GOI and SIDA (now DFID) Lok Jumbish and Shiksha Kanmi projects since 1993 in
selected blocks and the World Bank supported Rajasthan DPEP I project across ten districts since October
1999. Each project aims to increase access to, and retention in, primary schooling and to develop local and
district level capacity to manage the delivery of this level of schooling. However, much remains to be done
if the objective of universalization is to be achieved in the near future. The 1995/96 National Sample
Survey describes the gross attendance ratio in primary schooling in Rajasthan as 74 percent with just 58
percent of the 6-11 years age group in school. This section describes the physical and financial
requirements for the universalization of primary education by 2005 and 2008, and the implications of these
requirements for the state's public finances. A model based on the demographic profile of Rajasthan,
describing in some detail the physical and, consequently, the financial requirements to universalize primary
education has been constructed. The details of the assumptions and other parameters used are described
below.
Enrollments
(i) The projection of the growth in school enrollments necessary to attain universalization of the 6-11 year
olds in primary schooling by 2005 and 2008 first required estimation of the age group in each year to
2008.
(ii) In addition, the extent of over and under age enrollment was taken into account since reducing this type
of enrollment would reduce the additional resources required to enroll all 6-11 year olds. The
difference between the gross attendance ratio and the proportion of 6-11 year olds in school implies
that around 15 percent of primary school enrollments are of over or under age children. As
universalization approaches, this share will decrease. It is assumed that the share will be five percent
in the terminal year in each of the projections.
(iii) According to the 52nd Round National Sample Survey 1995/96, just under 10 percent of primary
school enrollments were in private unaided schools. While the measures being introduced in the DPEP
and Lok Jumbish projects should improve the quality of governnent schools and encourage additional
enrollment, it is assumed that private schools will maintain a stable share of enrollments.
Teachers
(i) Two sets of teacher requirements were made using pupil-teacher ratios of 40:1 and 45:1.
(ii) It is assumed that the teacher attrition rate is two percent annually and that, in keeping with current
policy, all of the regular posts whichbecome vacant will be filled by parateachers. In addition, it is
assumed that all new teacher posts created in the future will be filled by parateachers
(iii) In calculating the financial requirements for the teaching force, a monthly emolument of Rs. 6,500 per
month for a regular teacher was used together with an annual increase of 2.0 percent. For
parateachers, the monthly payment is Rs. 1200 (and for the relatively small number of Shiksha Karmi
teachers it is Rs. 1800). Different rates of increase in the payment to parateachers are assumed in
separate projections.
- 50 -



Other recurring inputs
(i) Teacher training costs for regular teachers were estimated at Rs. 700 per year and, on the basis of
current expenditures, at Rs. 5200 for parateachers and shiksha karmis.
(ii) Grants to teachers for preparing low-cost teaching materials were estimated at the DPEP rate of Rs.
500 per year.
Capital expenditure
The estimated capital expenditures cover additional classrooms, toilets and drinking water facilities.
Separate estimates were made assuming one classroom for 40 and 45 children by the end of the timeframes.
It was also assumed that every school eventually would have at least one toilet and one drinking water
facility. The costs of constructing one classroom, toilet and drinking water facility were assumed to be Rs.
144,000, Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 45,000, respectively.
Financial requirements
Both the recurrent and capital expenditures required to universalize schooling by 2005 and 2008 have been
aggregated for each year from 2000 under two sets of assumptions for both pupil:teacher and
pupil:classroom ration. The results are shown in Table 3.
Table 3. Rajasthan: Financial Requirements for Universalizing Primary Education (Rs. million)
1999      2000     2001          2002      2003      2004      2005        2006      2007       2008      2009      2010
Base             Projections
Year
Universalization by 2005
Teachers
Salaries (in millions)
With PTR 40:1                   11772.6  11855.0    12466.5    12692.3  13045.4  13452.7  13993.3    14259.5  14456.2  14662.4  14872.7  15092.3
With PTR 45:1                   11772.6  12028.2    12466.5    12639.9  12876.0  13085.6  13386.8    13554.1   13726.9  13907.2  14092.9  14286.0
Training (in millions)
With PTR 40:1                     194.5    199.3      290.2        339.7    411.6       492.4     596.0       648.5     688.0     727.9      768.5    809.7
With PTR 45:1                     194.5     199.3    290.2         330.0    380.5       425.5    486.3        522.0     558.1     594.7      631.9     669.5
Grants for TLMs (in
millions)
With PTR 40:1                     184.4     195.1        214.7     230.7    255.6       284.0    317.4        327.2     335.7     344.4      353.4     362.6
With PTR 45:1                     184.4    195.1         212.4     227.0    246.0       265.3     283.5       290.8_   298.4      306.1      314.1     322.3
Classrooms & other
facilities (in millions)
With PTR 40:1                              1738.3       2929.2   2817.0   3995.2   4512.1   5010.2           1046.0   1073.2    1101.1    1129.7    1159.1
With PTR 45:1                              1823.3       3818.5   2608.2   3279.4   3460.1   2938.3            929.7    953.9      978.7   1004.2    1030.3
Total
With PTR 40:1                             13987.7      15900.6  16079.6  17707.9  18741.2  19916.8    16281.2  16553.0  16835.8  17124.3   17423.7
With PTR 45:1                             14245.9      16787.7  15805.1  16781.9  17236.6  17094.9    15296.7  15537.3  15786.8  16043.1   16308.0
Universalization by 2008                                                               _
Teachers
Salaries (in millions)
With PTR 40:1                   11772.6   1 2028.2     12435.5  12543.6  12779.1  12991.9  13248.1    13643.8  14015.8  14268.2  14462.6  14665.2
- 51 -



With PTR 45:1           11772.6  12028.2   12451.1  12579.0  12800.1  12980.7  13224.2  13466.9  13715.5  13906.9  14092.9  14286.0
Training (in milions)                                                       =                               =
With PTR 40:1            194.5   199.3     284.4   316.9  372.7   429.7   495.2    587.4   669.2   727.9   768.5   809.7
With PTR 45:1             194.5   199.3    284.4   307.5   352.9   387.9   428.8    491.6   554.2   594.7   631.9   669.5
Grants for TLMs (in
millions)                                                                                                         _
With PTR 40:1             184.4   193.2    206.8   215.1   232.4   249.8   270.7    300.8   332.8   344.4   353.4   362.6
With PTR 45:1            184.4   193.2     206.8   211.9   223.0   234.1   247.6    267.9   289.5   306.1   314.1   322.3
Classrooms & other
facilities (in millions)
With PTR 40:1                   1297.6    2777.6  1533.5  2868.5  2891.9  3401.1   4300.6  4945.7  1260.7  1129.7  1159.1
With PTR 45:1                   1297.6 .   2732.6  1098.4  1806.0  2122.9  2483.1   2969.9  3222.7  2716.4  1004.2  1030.3
Total
With PTR 40:1                  13718.4   15704.3  14609.1  16252.7  16563.2  17415.1  18832.7  19963.6  16601.3  16714.2  16996.6
With PTR 45:1                  13718.4   15674.9  14196.8  15182.0  15725.6  16383.7  17196.4  17781.8  17524.2  16043.1  16308.0
World Bank staffestimates
With 2005 as the target year for universalization, the financial requirement in that year (at constant 1999
prices) is estimated to range between Rs. 17 billion and Rs. 20 billion depending on the pupil:teacher and
pupil:classroom ratios. With 2008 as the target year, similar requirements would be required, but the build
up would be at a lower rate. Expenditure on primary education in 200/01 was estimated to be Rs. 13.3
billion. This implies an increase of between 28 and 50 percent to achieve universalization. Over a four
year period this would require annual increases of between six and eleven percent; and between 3.5 to 5.5
percent over the eight year period. These costs are based on the crucial assumption that all new and
replacement teachers are parateachers whose salaries are constant and remain below one fifth of regular
teacher salaries. The detailed policies on this have yet to be finalized. However, taking the extreme case
for illustrative purposes, if it is assumed that all of the new teachers appointed and all of the replacements
for retiring regular teachers are parateachers, but that there salaries rise to those of regular teachers by the
fifth year of employment, the result would be that the requirement in 2005 would increase beyond the Rs.
17 - 20 billion by another Rs. 7 billion. Beyond the date of achieving universal primary education, costs
fall quite steeply as the demand for additional classrooms declines.
Fiscal implications
An initial assumption was made that the allocation to elementary education would grow at the same rate as
the overall economy, and consequently that the share of GSDP would remain at 2.97 percent and that the
share of the elementary education allocation devoted to primary schooling would remain constant (at 71
percent). As described above, the growth of GSDP has been projected on the basis of two contrasting
scenarios of fiscal reform and consequent economic growth rates. The implications for the allocations for
primary schooling and the resulting financing gap which would require to be filled if universalization is to
be reached by 2005 are described in Table 4.
- 52 -



Table 4. Financing Gaps for Universalization of Primary Education (Rs. million)
1999/00    2000/01   2001102  2002/03  2003/04  2004/05  2005/06
Base     Projections
Year
Financial Requirements for                            13988    15901    16080    17708    18741    19917
Universalization /a
Partial Reform Scenario (PRS)
GSDP Growth Rate                           3.9          4.1      4.2      4.3      4.4      4.5      4.6
GSDP at PRS Growth Rate                600168.      624775  651015   679009  708885   740785   774861
0
Allocation to Basic Education /b         17795        18556   19335   20167   21054   22001    23013
Allocation to Primary Education /c                    13267    13825    14419    15054    15731    16455
Bold Reform Scenario (BRS)
GSDP Growth Rate                           3.9 _        4.1      4.4      4.6      4.9      5.1      5.4
GSDP at BRS Growth Rate                600168.      624775  652265   682269  715700   752201   792820
0
Allocation to Basic Education lb         17795        18556   19372    20263   21256   22340    23547
Allocation to Primary Education /c                    13267   13851    14488    15198    15973    16836
Financing Gaps for Universalization
In Partial Reform Scenario                             720    2076       1661    2654     3010     3462
In Bold Refonn Scenario                                 720    2049      1591    2510     2768      3081
1===~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The partial reform scenario. Implementation of the reform scenario currently adopted by GOR is
projected by Bank staff to lead to a rate of growth of 4.6 percent by 2005/6 compared to a current rate of
3.9 percent. If this occurred, and if allocations to primary education maintained their share of GSDP at 2.1
percent, then the resources available would be Rs. 16.4 billion and additional expenditures of around Rs.
3.5 billion would be required for universalization in 2005 (assuming pupil:teacher and pupil:classroom
ratios of 40:1). This would be equivalent to an additional 0.5 percent of projected GSDP in that year.
Summarizing, the financing of universal primary schooling by 2005 could be achieved through
implementing the partial set of reforms and increasing the share of elementary education in GDSP from the
current 2.1 percent to around 2.6 percent. In the following years, the share could decline as the
requirements for additional classrooms tail off.
The bold reform scenario. Implementation of the combination of fiscal reforms outlined by Bank staff is
projected to lead to higher rates of growth of GDSP reaching 5.4 percent by 2005/6. If that occurred,
additional expenditure of around Rs. 3.0 billion, over and above those that would maintain the share of
primary education in GSDP would still be required for universalization by 2005. This would be equivalent
to 0.37 percent of GSDP.
The costs of universalization will be kept down if the GOR continues to adopt the policy of appointing only
parateachers and if their pay remains substantially below that of regular teachers. The calculations above
- 53 -



assume that such a case prevails. The impact of re-engaging regular teachers or of increasing the pay of
parateachers to that of a regular teacher after five years (one of the policy options being suggested by the
GOR) would have the effect of requiring an increase in primary education's allocations to the equivalent of
around 3.3 percent of GSDP compared to the 2.5 - 2.6 percent estimated above.
The education sector is currently allocated over 23 percent of all revenue and capital expenditures and
almost two fifths of this is for primary education. Universalization would require an increase in primary
education's share of total government expenditure from the current 9.1 percent to 11.3 percent. If para
teachers salaries were to increase to those of a regular teacher then the share would have to increase to over
14 percent.
A significant increase in allocations to primary education could occur through increases in the overall share
for education or, to some extent, from reallocating post primary funding to the primary level.
-54 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project
Operational Period (Calendar Year of Expense)
2001-02  2002-03  2003-04  2004-05  2005-06
Proiect Costs
(US$ Million. Includine Continaencies)
Investment Costs                    10.7     19.9      15.9     7.4       6.6
Recurrent Costs                      4.4      4.8      5.4      6.0       6.3
Total               15.1     24.7     21.4      13.4      12.9
Financing Sources
(% of Total Costs)
IDA                                 91%      91%      88%       82%       63%
Government of India                  9%       9%       12%      18%       37%
Total               100%     100%      100%     100%      100%
All costs include contingencies
- 55 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project
Procurement
Procurement Arrangements
Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project is a follow on project of Rajasthan DPEP I. As such,
the procurement arrangements to be undertaken by the project will be the responsibility of the same
implementing agency, i.e., Rajasthan Council of Primary Education (RCPE). The procurement
arrangements in Rajasthan DPEP I so far, are considered satisfactory and the same procedures would be
followed in Rajasthan DPEP II as well. The procurement team at the RCPE is now familiar with the Bank
Procurement Procedures.
The RCPE will continue to provide a team of qualified engineers in each district to extend technical support
to the School Management Committees (SMCs) and to supervise the progress of civil works. The State
Project Office has one Building Advisor, two Assistant Engineers and one Architect (on contract) who have
done the work for Rajasthan DPEP 1. The same team will carry out the civil works in Rajasthan DPEP II.
One Assistant Engineer will be placed in each district level and one Junior Engineer in each block. Staff
will be oriented so that they are able to get civil works done through SMC according to the specified time
schedule and also ensure quality.
All Civil Works procurement under the project will be carried out through local community contracting.
For all procurement such as MIS, equipment and other supplies, consultants and services, the RCPE will
directly manage procurement activities with the assistance of staff working on procurement matters.
Civil Works (US$23.30 Million): The civil works program encompasses the construction of one room
buildings for about 540 new alternative schools, construction of structures for 500 buildingless schools,
2800 additional classrooms, 400 ECE Centers, 7100 toilets, 2300 hand pumps and 380 PHED connections,
49 Block Resource Centers and 678 Cluster Resource Centers in nine districts of Rajasthan. The
construction program also covers major repairs in 1800 schools and minor repairs in 3200 classrooms.
The unit construction cost of would be for: (a) primary school US$5,450; (b) alternative school US$3063;
(c) additional classroom US$2,800; (d) CRC US$3,191; and (e) BRC US$16,000. The unit cost of repairs
and renovation of existing school buildings ranges from US$560 to US$1,200. Toilets and drinking water
facilities will be provided at a unit cost of US$215 and US$1,064, respectively.
There will be approximately 9500 civil works contracts averaging around $500 each. A few contracts
would reach $20,000.
In the spirit of decentralizing project activities, these works will be carried out by community driven
process in accordance with paragraph 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines.
The first year civil works activities have been planned realistically and cover relatively simpler construction
viz drinking water facilities, i.e., installation of hand pumps and direct connections from the PHED,
construction of toilets and repairs of existing primary school buildings. The balance planned civil works
will be completed in the second and third year of the project.
- 56 -



Goods (US$12.40 Million): Procurement of Goods including, inter alia, office equipment, furniture,
books, workbooks, software, incentive items/supplies for focus group children would be phased on an
annual basis in accordance with the requirement of the project activities. Phasing of the procurement of
equipment and furniture will be closely sequenced with the civil works program. The bulk of the
procurement will be carried out at block/district level. Since the value of most of the items to be procured
under equipment and furniture, etc., is expected to be below US$50,000, National shopping (US$1.29
million) will be used for these items. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be used for the
procurement of items such as books and workbooks, valued at more than US$50,000 per contract.
Proprietary software (US$50,000) and books (US$7.85 million) costing below US$5000 per contract, will
be procured through Direct Contracting.
Vehicles estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less per contract will be procured through National
Shopping (DGS&D Rate contracts are acceptable as an alternative) up to an aggregate of US$570,000.
For procurement of Goods/equipment, there will be approximately 30 contracts under National Shopping
each valued at less than $1000, and about 16 contracts under National Competitive Bidding, each valued at
more than US$30,000. No contract will exceed US$300,000.
Services (US$24.90 Million): The project will fund services required for project preparation and
implementation, such as, training, workshops and seminars, which will include training of regular teachers,
parateachers, DPEP staff, public representatives as well as MIS training. The training and workshops will
be arranged at the State, District and Block level, and the expenditure would not exceed US$5000 per
training module. Consultants will be hired for various activities including studies such as those pertaining
to classroom observation, mid-term evaluations, etc., and to serve as resource persons for training
SMC/BNS members, ECE/ICDS workers/teachers/parateachers. Innovation, Research and Evaluation
work in the field of Elementry Education as also awareness activities for community mobilization will also
be undertaken under the project.
There will be an internal audit of expenditure including asset verification conducted by an auditor
appointed by RCPE along with a technical audit of community construction by an independent consultant.
A large number of individuals such as mahila activists, ICDS motivators, girl child escorts, etc., shall be
hired on a contract basis. There will be approximately 5000 such contracts each valued less than US$1000
each. The job description, minimum qualifications, terms of employment, range of remuneration payable
and selection procedures shall be agreed with the Association. A Letter of Agreement for short-term
assignments for individual consultants will follow the Bank's model format.
In addition, there will be about 530 contracts each valued around an average of US$8,000. There will be
one contract of the order of US$600,000.
Miscellaneous Costs (US$26.90 Million): These would be financed on a declining basis and would cover
(a) salaries and honorarium to the additional staff and parateachers ($18.23 million); (b) expenses incurred
by schools and teachers for school maintenance and teaching and learning materials ($5.10 million); (c)
operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles, hiring cost of vehicles ($0.97 million); (d) office
expenses and consumables such as telephone, stationery, electricity charges, office rent, printing, etc.,
($2.58 million); and (e) civil works maintenance (US$0.03 million).
- 57 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
IDA-financed works, goods and services will be procured using Bank guidelines of January 1995, revised
January, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 for goods/works and January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999 for services. The procurement methods applicable to the various
expenditure categories are sunmmarized in Table A below. For procurement under the project, the Bank's
standard bidding documents shall be used.
Procurement arrangements summarized in Table A are as follows:
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost over US$20,000 equivalent will be carried out following
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Contracts for civil works estimated to cost equivalent of
US$20,000 or less will be procured following procedures acceptable to the Bank: (a) direct contracting; (b)
under quotations solicited from at least three qualified contractors; and (c) unit/piece rate system through
qualified contractors or registered NGOs or other beneficiary associations.
Contracts for the purchase of goods valued at more than US$50,000 but less than US$300,000 may be
awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Items or groups of items valued
US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured on the basis of national shopping procedures.
Other items or small groups of items such as supply of furniture, equipment and books valued at less than
US$5,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through direct contracting or national shopping
procedures.
All NCB contracts to be financed from the Credit under the project would follow procedures satisfactory to
the Association, which are:
(i)    Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task Force
(and as amended from time to time) shall be used for bidding.
(ii)    Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, at
least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of the bids.
(iii)    No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given state.
(iv)    Except with the prior concurrence of the Association, there shall be no negotiation of price with
the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
(v)    Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond the control of the GOR extension of bid
validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Association: (a) for the first
request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (b) for all subsequent requests for
extension irrespective of the period.
(vi)    Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Association. The system
of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or "bracket" of prices shall not be used.
(vii)   Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB
procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under national shopping
procedures.
- 58 -



Contracts for maintenance of equipment and vehicles may be awarded through: (a) direct contracting; or
(b) national shopping procedures.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB           Other'         N.B.F.-   Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00             0.00          23.30          0.00        23.30
(0.00)           (0.00)        (21.00)       (0.00)       (21.00)
2. Goods                              0.00             2.60           9.80          0.00         12.40
(0.00)          (2.60)         (9.40)        (0.00)       (12.00)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          24.90          0.00        24.90
_________________________            (0.00)           (0.00)        (24.90)        (0.00)      (24.90)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00          26.90          0.00        26.90
_______________________     _      _(0.00)            (0.00)        (16.50)        (0.00)(16.50)
Total                              0.00             2.60          84.90          0.00        87.50
._________________    _  __ l_    (0.00)              (2.60)         (71.80)       (0.00)       (74.40)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 59 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category:  QCBS    QBS     SFB     LCS       CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
~~~~~~~~9--Ttl Cost'
A. Firms               0.56    0.00     0.00    0.00     2.62     0.00    0.00      3.18
(0.56)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.62)   (0.00)  (0.00)    (3.18)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     5.87     0.00    0.00      5.87
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (5.87)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (5.87)
Total  0.56    0.00    0.00    0.00      8.49    0.00    0.00       9.05
_  (0.56)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (8.49)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (9.05)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review will be required for: (a) all contracts for goods with an estimated value of more than
US$300,000 equivalent; (b) all contracts for works with an estimated value of more than US$300,000
equivalent as well as the first NCB contract each for goods and works regardless of the value; (c)
consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or more
for individuals; and (d) the Terms of Reference for all consultant contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$12,000 or more per contract in the case of firms, and the equivalent of US$5,000 or more per
contract in the case of individuals.
- 60 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value             Procurement            Contracts Subject to
Category               (Threshold)                 Method                 Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
1. Civil Works           Civil works by community (i)Through Direct Contracting  Post review only
estimated to cost the  or
equivalent of US$20,000  (ii) By inviting quotations
or less per contract   from at least three qualified
contractors
2. Goods
(a) Furniture, equipment,   (i) US$50,000 or less per  National Shopping Procedures Post review only
workbooks, books for      contract up to an      (includes DGS&D Rate
libraries and materials   aggregate not exceeding   Contracts)
US$1.29 million
equivalent
(ii) US$5,000 or less per  Direct Contracting      Post review only
contract, up to an
aggregate not exceeding
US$7.85 million
equivalent for books and
libraries
(iii) Proprietary software  Direct Contracting     Post review only
(0.05 million)
(b)                       Goods estimated to cost   National Competitive Bidding  Post Review only
more than the equivalent  (NCB)
of US$50,000 per contract
(c) Vehicles              US$100,000 or less per   National Shopping Procedures Post Review only
contract upto an       (includes DGS&D Rate
aggregate not exceeding   Contracts)
US$570,000.
3. Services
(a) Research contracts, IEC  (i) More than       Quality and Cost Based      Prior review of all
contracts, professional   US$200,000 per contract  Selection (QCBS)          consultant contracts shall
services, studies, training,                                                 be govemed by the
workshops and fellowships                                                    provision of paragraphs (i),
(ii), (iii) and (iv) below:
(ii) US$200,000 or less    Quality and Cost Based
per contract           Selection (QCBS) with Short
List (could comprise entirely
of national consultants)
- 61 -



(iii) US$100,000, or less  (i) Quality and Cost Based   (i) With respect to each
per contract              Selection (QCBS) with Short  contract for the
List (could comprise entirely   employment of consulting
of national consultants)      firms estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$200,000
or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 1, 2
and [other than the third
subparagraph of paragraph
2(a)] and 5 of Appendix I
to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply.
(ii) Selection based on       (ii) With respect to each
consultants qualification (CQ) contract for the
employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000
or more, but less than the
equivalent of US$200,000,
the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 [other than
the second subparagraph of
paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of
Appendix I to the
Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
(iii) Single Source Selection    (iii) With respect to each
for US$ 1,000 or less per     contract for the
contract (acceptable for tasks   employment of individual
representing a natural        consultants estimated to
continuation of assignment,    cost the equivalent of
when rapid selection is       $50,000 or more, the
essential, when only one firm   qualifications, experience,
is qualified, or for small    terms of reference and
assignments)                  terms of employment of the
consultants shall be
furnished to the
Association for its prior
review and approval. The
contract shall be awarded
only after the said approval
shall have been given.
- 62 -



(iv) Individual consultants in  (iv) Terms of Reference for
accordance with the provisions all consultant contracts
of paragraph 5.1 to 5.3 of the   estimated to cost the
Consultants Guidelines     equivalent of US$12,000 or
more per contract in case of
firms and the equivalent of
US$5,000 or more per
contract in the case of
individuals shall be
furnished to the
Association for its prior
review and approval. The
contract shall be awarded
only after the said approval
has been given.
All other cases                                    Post Review
4. Miscellaneous
(a) Incremental operating   Incremental operating
costs: expenses incurred on  costs estimated to cost the
salaries of staff,       equivalent of US$20,000
consumables, teaching    or less per contract, up to
learning materials       an aggregate not
maintenance and hiring of   exceeding US$26.90
vehicles, maintenance of    million may be executed
equipment and civil works   by:
and school facility
improvement
(i) Direct contracting up  Direct Contracting      Post review only
to an aggregate not
exceeding US$16.50
million; or
(ii) On the basis of price  National Shopping Procedures Post review only
quotations obtained from
at least three qualified
contractors eligible under
the guidelines
Total value of contracts                         US$180,000
subject to prior review:
Procurement Risk - Average
Supervision - once in six months
Post Award Review:
Because of the nature of this operation, almost all contracts would be below prior review limits. It is
expected that the project will include about 15,000 contracts over a five year period, with about 14,500 of
these below US$500, and the rest ranging from $500 to $2000, with a few reaching $20,000. The project
itself provides for a self audit to be conducted by independent auditors hired by the Borrower for
expenditures included, as well as asset verification. In addition, the project provides for a technical audit to
be carried out by independent consultants for all community construction works. The normal Bank's
requirement of ex-post review of 1 in 10 contracts for an average risk project, cannot be achieved in this
project due to resource constraints, since annual budget allocations only allow for a total of roughly 1,000
ex-post contract reviews for the entire India Portfolio. Given the sheer numbers of contracts envisioned in
- 63 -



this project, the Bank's resource constraints, the mitigating effect of the self audit and technical audits
mentioned above, we would consider the "benchmark" review level of I in 10 contracts to be excessively
large for this type of operation. In addition to a review of the independent self-audit reports called for in
this project, Bank staff will conduct post award reviews during SPN missions. These reviews will be
periodically supplemented by an appropriate allocation of of random ex-post audits conducted by firms
engaged by the Region for post award review coverage on the India portfolio as a whole.
- 64 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category                                    Amount i                 IDA Financing Percentage
Million
*   Civil Works                                            US$19.1          90%
*   Equipment, Fumiture and Vehicles                       US$1.5           100% of foreign expenditures, 100
of local expenditures (ex-factory c(
and 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured
*   Books                                                  US$10.0          100%
-  Training, Awareness Campaigns and Consultants           US$23.7          100%
Incremental operating and maintenance costs              US$15.7          80% for the first two years; 70% ft
the third year; 63% for the fourth y
and 25% thereafter
*   Unallocated (summation of contingencies)               US$4.4
TOTAL                                               US$74.4
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement
The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C. A Special Account would be maintained in
the Reserve Bank of India, and managed by the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Government of
India (GOI). The authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$7.0 million that represent
about four months of average estimated disbursements from the IDA Credit. The Special Account would
be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies.
Disbursements will initially be made in the traditional system (reimbursement with full documentation and
against statement of expenditure) and will be converted to Project Management Report (PMR)-based
disbursement after the financial management system has been demonstrated to be operating satisfactorily.
The target date for this conversion is October 1, 2002.
- 65 -



In the interim period, the SPO will be required to submit a report on sources and uses of funds by
disbursement category and procurement reports on contracts over US$100,000 to IDA on a quarterly basis.
The form and contents of these reports have been agreed between IDA and the RCPE and these are
included in the PIP.
Financial Management System
The project is a follow-on project of Rajasthan DPEP currently under implementation. The implementing
agency for the project is the RCPE. The RCPE has the following strengths in the area of financial
management: (i) the SPO is adequately staffed with a financial controller and an accounts officer already
in place; (ii) the SPO is familiar with the Bank's disbursement procedures; (iii) a project financial
management manual has already been prepared which details the funds flow process, the accounting
arrangements, financial reporting, auditing, etc.; and (iv) a system of timely submission of accounts from
BRCs/CRCs/SMCs to the district and from districts to the state level exists.
However, in the absence of a computerized financial management system, the project has still not started
preparing financial statements indicating sources and uses of funds by components which could be of use to
management for information and decision making.
Specific areas to be strengthened:
The following aspects need to be addressed to ensure that a satisfactory financial management system
commensurate with the size and scope of the project is established:
(a) the need to analyze financial information and use it as a decision making tool: Financial reports
which provide timely and quality information on the financial performance of the project should be
prepared. The accounting system should ensure classification and compilation/analysis of
accounting data in such a manner as to provide useful and timely information for project
monitoring;
(b) ensuring linking of physical progress with the financial progress;
(c) the monitoring system for funds advanced to and the expenditure reported by DPOs needs to be
strengthened at SPO and DPOs, respectively;
(d) the withdrawal claims preparation process at SPO needs to be more systematized. The claims
should be based on the expenditure as captured in the books of account, e.g., a ledger, rather than
complied in an ad hoc manner from the cash book; and
(e) improvement in the flow of funds to the SMCs through (a) making installment payments in such a
way to ensure that the SMCs do not run out of money and (b) making payments to SMCs through
demand drafts instead of cheques to facilitate faster transfer of money.
The proposed computerized FMS will address the issues (a) to (c). The project has also agreed to
streamline and systematize its withdrawal claim preparation process to make sure that the claims are based
on the books of account. The project has also accepted to make changes in the mode of bank transfer to
ensure faster transfer of money to SMCs.
- 66 -



Proposed Financial Management System
RCPE is already in the process of developing a comprehensive district-based computerized financial
management system to be used for both Rajasthan DPEP I and Rajasthan DPEP II projects. Project
Monitoring Reports of the project would be generated from the financial management information system.
The FMS will also help RCPE to perpare its annual financial statements.
The project financial management system has been documented in the form of a 'Financial Management
Manual'. This includes, inter alia, the: (i) funds flow process; (ii) detailed accounting system including the
Chart of Accounts; formats of books, vouchers, statements, etc.; (ii) formats of financial reports; linkages
between the Chart of Accounts and financial reports; inputs of budget and other data; data capture,
information flow and processing; (iii) internal control mechanisms; (iv) financial and accounting policies
and procedures; (v) budgeting and forecasting system; (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii) organization and
staffing including job responsibilities of key staff; and (viii) service standards (benchmarks) for various
accounting and financial activities.
The first iteration of the FMS software has been completed and the system is expected to be fully
operational by October 1, 2001.
Flow of Funds
GOT would pass on World Bank funds to RCPE, which is a registered society, through a funds transfer to
RCPE bank account. The GOR will pass on its counterpart share through a budgetary allocation under a
single identifiable line item. The SPO will retain part of the funds for payments on activities managed
directly by the SPO, and pass on funds to the nine DPOs through banking channels. The amounts passed
on to each DPO would be on the basis of their cash flow forecasts (which in turn would be based on their
annual work programs and budgets). It is expected that the transfer of funds from SPO to DPO would be
on a quarterly basis. The DPO would utilize the funds for payments on activities managed directly by the
DPO and for expenditures/advances for Block Resource Centres (BRCs), Cluster Resource Centres
(CRCs) and School Management Committees (SMCs) as explained below.
DPOs will provide advances to the respective BRCs, CRCs and SMCs through banking channels based on
the approved activities at those levels. Subsequent payments for civil works will be based on the
achievement of physical benchmark associated with the first installment as certified by the concerned Junior
Engineerand for other payments on reported expenditure for the quarter and projected expenditure for the
next quarter. It is expected that release of funds for civil works would be in installments of 50%, 35% and
15% of the approved amount of the works. This design of the funds release mechanism will take into
account the objectives of ensuring that there is sufficient amount of funds available at the works while at
the same time ensuring that internal controls are maintained and that amounts are being promptly and
regularly accounted for.
The bank accounts of BRCs would be operated by the BRC Facilitator and Chairman Block Education
Committee; CRCs by the CRC Facilitator and SMCs jointly by the Chairman and Member Secretary of the
SMC. These payments can be to suppliers, consultants, staff, etc., based on approved activities. These
payments would be supported by standard documentation.
SMCs have in the other DPEP projects demonstrated capacity to handle funds for school construction.
- 67 -



SPO will submit the withdrawal claims to CAA&A in GOI for onward submission to the Bank for
replenishment of the special account.
Accounting and Internal Controls
Books of accounts for the project would be maintained using double-entry bookkeeping principles.
Standard books of accounts (cash and bank books, joumals, ledgers, etc.) would be maintained at the SPO
and DPO levels using the FMS.
A Chart of Accounts has been developed to enable data to be captured and classified by expenditure center,
budget heads, project components, and disbursement categories. This would match with the classification
of expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan and
Project Cost Tables).
Accounting for BRCs, CRCs and SMCs in each district would be done at the respective DPO. The
accounting records (sub-ledgers) at the DPO level would provide details of accounts of the various BRCs,
CRCs and SMCs (important tool for monitoring the amounts advanced to and expenditures incurred on the
various BRCs, CRCs and SMCs). No books of accounts will be maintained at the BRCs, CRCs and
SMCs other then basic reporting of expenditures and materials register.
Transaction Information Flow and Accounting:
(i)  The SPO and DPO will generate and maintain the transaction vouchers for the various receipts
and expenditures made at SPO and DPO level respectively (including at the DPO level, for
amounts advanced by DPO to the BRCs, CRCs and SMCs).
(ii) Each BRC, CRC and SMC would generate the transaction vouchers for receipts and payments
made by it on various activities. At the BRC level, the BRC Facilitator will record the
transactions mainly bank receipts and payments. At the CRC level it will be done by the CRC
facilitator. At the SMC level this will be done by the member secretary of the SMC. There will
be a systematic filing of the supporting documentation for the transactions. At the time of
subrnission of monthly account statement to the district, at the DPO's, these monthly accounts
statements would be approved/authorized after being correctly classified for account heads
(based on the Chart of Accounts), and entered into the computerized accounting system. This
would enable generation of the sub-ledger giving the details of the accounts of each unit.
(iii) Consolidation of the project accounts at the SPO would be done by consolidation of accounts of
the SPO and the 9 DPOs, which would be done by the computerized system. Data transfer
would be handled through either a diskette transfer from DPOs to the SPO or through an
integrated computer network.
Intemal Controls: Intemal control mechanisms include the following:
(i) the establishment of appropriate budgeting systems, and regular monitoring of actual financial
performance with budgets and targets;
(ii) adoption of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which govern
financial management of and accounting for the project; and
- 68 -



(iii) at the transaction level, policies, procedures and systems have been developed for ensuring
standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of
authorization, bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliations, physical verification, etc.
Financial Reporting
Project Financial Management Reports would be generated from the project accounting system. The main
objective of the financial management reports is to provide project management with timely information on
various financial aspects, and thereby serve as an active project management tool.
The SPO and DPOs would generate quarterly financial management reports from the integrated
computerized financial management system for the whole project (SPO) and for their respective districts
(DPOs). These reports would be management oriented (i.e., summaries rather than transactional details).
Quarterly Financial Management Reports will include:
*   comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances, including on
aspects such as sources of funds and application of funds (classified by components,
sub-components, summarized expenditure categories, etc.);
3 comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances on key physical
parameters;
* forecasts for the next two quarters; and
3 infornation on procurement management for major contracts
Staffing
Key Professional Staff: The financial and accounting team for the project would be headed by a Financial
Controller located in the SPO, who has already been appointed. He will have overall responsibility for the
financial management aspects of the project. The Financial Controller would report to the Project Director.
At each of the DPOs, the finance function would be headed by an Assistant Accounts Officer with about 4
to 5 years experience, including suitable experience in modem accounting and financial practices. The
AAOs for the project districts have already been appointed. The Assistant Accounts Officer will be fully
responsible for all financial and accounting aspects at the DPO level and below. The Assistant Accounts
Officers would report functionally to the Financial Controller, and administratively to the District Project
Manager.
Auditing Arrangements
The accounts of the project will be audited by a firm of Chartered Accountants, even though CAG will
retain its right to audit the project accounts. The annual project financial statements audited by the firm of
Chartered Accountants would be submitted within six months of the close of GOI's fiscal year (as required
under the Bank's operational policies).
The Terms of Reference of the firm of Chartered Accountants would include a concurrent audit. This
would strengthen intemal controls, and would also facilitate early completion of the annual audit. Since a
significant portion of the expense will be made at the level of SMCs, CRCs and BRCs, the Terms of
Reference drawn up for the auditors would be oriented towards a strong emphasis on the audit of these
units involving site visits. The auditors would cany out such tests and controls as deemed necessary by
- 69 -



them. In accordance with the Bank's operational policies, the Terms of Reference and qualifications of the
firm of Chartered Accountants would be reviewed by the Bank. The firm of Chartered Accountants would
be appointed before the start of the project.
Thus, the following audit reports will be monitored in the Audit Report Compliance System (ARCS):
Implementing Agency      Audit                 Auditors
RCPE               SOE/Project Audit  A firm of Chartered Accountants
DEA/GOI            Special Account    Comptroller and Auditor General
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
An agreement has been reached with the project on the form and content of the Project Monitoring Reports
and these are a part of the PIP.
The next key steps in the institution of a comprehensive computerized financial management system in the
project are:
Operationalization of the FMS in the project   October 1, 2001
Complete training of RCPE staff on the software  October 31, 2001
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$1.8 million (SDR 1.4 million
equivalent) would cover eligible expenditures for implementing activities after May 1, 2001. Retroactive
financing would support hiring and training of staff in the SPO, the District Project Office teams; rent,
equipment and vehicle hire for district offices; hiring and training of 49 BRC Facilitators and BRC building
rentals; hiring and training of 678 CRC Facilitators; training and formation of SMCs and BNS, collection
of initial EMIS data collection; orientation programs on DPEP for district and PRI officials; and other
activities included in the state and district plans and agreed at negotiations.
Special account:
A Special Account will be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India, and will be managed by theDepartment
of Economic Affairs of GOI. The authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$7.0 million,
or about four months of average estimated disbursements from the IDA Credit. The Special Account will
be operated in accordance with the Bank's Operational Policies.
- 70 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                    .,Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      10                           10
First Bank mission (identification)             12/06/99                     04/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     03/29/2000                   04/16/2001
Negotiations                                    06/10/2000                   05/23/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/15/2000                   09/30/2001
Prepared by:
Government of India / Government of Rajasthan
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Susan Hirshberg                   Task Team Leader / Sr. Education Specialist
N.K. Jangira                      Co-Task Team Leader / Sr. Education Specialist
Ward Heneveld                     Team Leader / Lead Education Specialist
Keith Hinchliffe                  Lead Economist
Venita Kaul                       Sr. Education Specialist
Vandana Sipahimalani-Rao          Education Economist
Meera Chatterjee                  Sr. Social Development Specialist
Rajat Narula                      Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Santhanam Krishnnan               Sr. Procurement Specialist
Hiroko Imamura                    Sr. Counsel
Mohammad Nawaz                    Legal Consultant
Christophe Bosch                  Water and Sanitation Economist
Sudesh Ponnappa                   Program Assistant
Gertrude Cooper                   Program Assistant
Laura Kiang                       Operations Analyst
Anjali Manglik                    Team Assistant
John Middleton                    Peer Reviewer
Robert Prouty                     Peer Reviewer
Elizabeth King                    Peer Reviewer
- 71 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan. Rajasthan Council of Primary Education (RCPE), Jaipur.
State Component Plan.
State Investment Proposal.
District Investment Proposals: Bharatpur, Bundi, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Hanumangarh, Jaipur, Karauli
and Sawaimadhopur Districts. Rajasthan Council of Primary Education (RCPE), Jaipur.
District First Year Annual Workplans and Budgets: Bharatpur, Bundi, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur,
Hanumangarh, Jaipur, Karauli and Sawaimadhopur Districts. Rajasthan Council of Primary Education
(RCPE), Jaipur.
Project Costs for State and District Investment Proposals.
Project Procurement Plan.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Rajasthan Economic Update.
India Education Finance Study.
Baseline Achievement Study: Bharatpur, Bundi, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Hanumangarh, Jaipur, Karauli
and Sawaimadhopur Districts.
Social Assessment Surveys: Bharatpur, Bundi, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Hanumangarh, Jaipur, Karauli and
Sawaimadhopur Districts.
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Certificates.
Report on the Assessment of Project for PMR-based Disbursement.
C. Other
DPEP Baseline Assessment Survey of Rajasthan (Second Phase). State Institute of Educational Research
and Training, Udaipur. March 2000.
Revised District Plans (2001-2006) with First Year Annual Work Plan and Budget: Bharatpur, Bundi,
Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Hanumangarh, Jaipur, Karauli and Sawaimadhopur Districts.
Social Assessment Studies: Bharatpur, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Hanumangarh, Jaipur, Karauli, Rajsamand
and Sawai Modhopur Districts. Institute of Development Studies, Jaipur.
State Component Plan. Rajasthan Council of Primary Education (RCPE), Jaipur.
Government of India Pre-appraisal mission: Aide Memoire.
Tribal Plan and Strategies. Government of Rajasthan, Jaipur. April 2001.
Rajasthan DPEP II Procurement Plan.
Rajasthan DPEP Bidding Documents.
Rajasthan DPEP. Teacher Training Modules.
Rajasthan DPEP. Construction Manual.
*Including electronic files
- 72 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project
Apr-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P059242       2001 MP DPIP                                            0.00     110.10                 0.00      0.00     108.95       0.00      0.00
P050658       2001 TECHN EDUC III                                     0.00     64.90                  0.00      0.00      60.93      -0.77      0.00
P038334       2001 RAJ POWER I                                      180.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     180.00       0.00      0.00
P055454       2001 KERALA RWSS                                        0.00     65.50                  0.00      0.00      65.00       1.41      0.00
P010566       2001 GUJARAT HWYS                                     381.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     366.00      21.00      0.00
P050667       2000 UP OPEP III                                        0.00     182.40                 0.00      0.00     148.43      26.52      0.00
P050657       2000 UP Health Systems Development Poject               0.00     110.00                 0.00      0.00     103.66       2.49      0.00
P010505       2000 RAJASTHAN DPIP                                     0.00     100.48                 0.00      0.00      93.77       1.83      0.00
P045049       2000 AP DPIP                                            0.00    111.00                  0.00      0.00     103.62      -1.06      0.00
P049770       2000 REN EGY II                                        80.00     50.00                  0.00      0.00     125.24       2.00      0.00
P067330       2000 IMMUNIZATION STRENGTHENING PROJECT                 0.00     142.60                 0.00      0.00     108.37     -17.94      0.00
P035172       2000 UP POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT            150.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     136.05      14.55      0.00
P059501       2000 TA for Econ Reform Project                         0.00     45.00                  0.00      0.00      42.07       0.75      0.00
P009972       2000 NATIONAL HIGHWAYS III PROJECT                    516.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     485.84      -2.06      0.00
P055456       2000 Telecommunicabtons Sector Reform TA               62.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      58.38       3.85      0.00
P045051       1999 2ND NATL HIV/AIDS CO                               0.00     191.00                 0.00      0.00     149.35       6.26      0.00
P045050       1999 RAJASTHAN DPEP                                     0.00     85.70                  0.00      0.00      77.82      31.54      0.00
P050651       1999 MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                                0.00     134.00                 0.00      0.00     122.74     129.67      0.00
P050646       1999 UPSODIC LANDS tt                                   0.00    194.10                  0.00      0.00     162.01      41.83      0.00
P050637       1999 TN URBANDEV It                                   105.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      43.37     -11.02      0.00
P049537       1999 APPOWERAPLI                                      210.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     114.65      61.65      0.00
P041264       1999 WTRSHD MGMT HILLS II                              85.00      50.00                 0.00      0.00     109.37       9.88      0.00
P010561       1998 NATLAGRTECHNOLOGY                                 96.80     100.00                 0.00      0.00     157.29      65.44      0.00
P038021       1998 DPEP tl (BIHAR)                                    0.00     152.00                 0.00      0.00     118.29      75.72      0.00
P035169       1998 UP FORESTRY                                        0.00     52.94                  0.00      0.00      29.73      14.10      0.00
P035824       1998 UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT                               79.90     50.00                  0.00      0.00     108.85      57.01      0.00
P035827       1998 WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                               0.00    300.00                  0.00      0.00     268.49      41.30      0.00
P049385       1998 AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                             301.30    241.90                  0.00      0.00     344.94     122.36      0.00
P049477       1998 KERALA FORESTRY                                    0.00     39.00                  0.00      0.00      23.68       1.75      0.00
P010496       1998 ORISSA HEALTHSYS                                   0.00     76.40                  0.00      0.00      67.93      24.41      0.00
P009979       1998 COAL SECTOR REHAB                                530.00      2.00                  0.00    269.28      27.87     184.81    184.81
P044449       1997 RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT                          0.00      19.50                 0.00      0.00      15.48      14.30      0.00
P043728       1997 ENV CAPAaTy BLDG TA                                0.00     50.00                  0.00      0.00      38.48      30.31      0.00
P036062       1997 ECODEVELOPMENT                                     0.00     28.00                 20.00      0.00      16.65      12.56      0.00
P045600       1997 TA ST'S RD INFRA DEV                              51.50      0.00                  0.00      0.00      13.16      13.16     13.16
P049301       1997 A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                               50.00     100.00                 0.00      0.00      85.51      89.26      0.00
P010473       1997 TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                               0.00     142.40                 0.00      0.00     106.33      86.99      0.00
P009995       1997 STATE HIGHWAYS l(AP)                             350.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     233.89      88.89      0.00
P009584       1997 ECODEVELOPMENT                                     0.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00       9.74       9.18      0.00
P035158       1997 APIRRIGATION III                                 175.00    150.00                  0.00      0.00     214.64     110.47      0.00
P010531       1997 REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                               0.00    248.30                  0.00      0.00     157.10     110.69     70.45
P010511       1997 MALARA CONTROL                                     0.00     164.80                 0.00      0.00     121.96      79.07      0.00
P035170       1996 ORISSA POWER SECTOR                              350.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     228.36     163.36      0.00
P010484       1996 UP RURAL WATER                                    59.60      0.00                  0.00      7.20      28.53      23.83      5.53
P010480       1996 BOMBAY SEW DISPOSAL                              167.00     25.00                  0.00      10.00     85.26      91.47      13.49
P010529       1996 ORISSA WRCP                                        0.00    290.90                  0.00      0.00      98.46      48.00      0.00
P035825       1996 STATE HEALTH SYS It                                0.00    350.00                  0.00      0.00     153.10     158.18      0.00
P043310       1996 COAL ENV & SOCIAL MITIGATION                       0.00     63.00                  0.00      0.00      31.10      28.33      0.00
P035821       1996 DPEP It                                            0.00    425.20                  0.00      0.00     155.96      32.57      0.00
P010485       1996 HYDROLOGY PROJECT                                  0.00     142.00                 0.00      19.64     44.32      79.08     13.49
P039935       1996 ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                              200.00      5.00                  0.00      0.00     178.60     179.15      0.00
P010563       1995 FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV PROJ. (FSDP)                700.00      0.00                  0.00     301.30     29.83    -368.87      0.00
P010461       1995 MADRAS WAT SUP tI                                275.80      0.00                  0.00     189.30     21.46     206.65      2.36
P010463       1995 INDUS POLLUTION PREV                             143.00      25.00                 0.00     65.81      74.53     135.79      8.43
- 73 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount In US$ Millions                              and actual
disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                   IBRD         IDA                    GEF   Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Re vd
P010489       1995 AP 1ST REF. HEALTHS                             0.00    133.00                 0.00      0.00      35.60     31.05       0.00
P010522       1995 ASSAM RURAL INFRA                               0.00    126.00                 0.00      0.00      61.68     43.10      27.37
P010476       1995 TAMIL NADUWRCP                                  0.00    282.90                 0.00      0.00    119.38     118.53      22.12
P010503       1995 AGRICHUMANRESDEVT                               0.00      59.50                0.00      0.00       9.86     14.96       2.96
P010464       1995 DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                             0.00    260.30                 0.00      0.00      79.50     69.50       0.00
P009870       1994 CONTAINER TRANSPORT                            94.00       0.00                0.00      15.00     33.57     48.57      48.56
P009964       1994 WATER RES CONSOLID H                             0.00    258.00                0.00       0.00     82.11     79.92       0.00
P010457       1994 POPULATION IX                                   0.00      88.60                0.00       0.00     32.88     31.16       0.00
P010455       1994 BLINDNESS CONTROL                                0.00    117.80                0.00      10.00     53.30     56.30       0.00
P010448       1994 FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                             0.00     47.00                0.00       0.00      7.16     26.07      -1.91
P010410       1993 RENEWABLE RESOURCES                             75.00    115.00               26.00       0.00     43.17     75.08       0.00
P009977       1993 ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                             0.00    194.00                0.00       0.00     59.96     65.17      65.18
P009963       1992 POPULATION VIII                                  0.00     79.00                0.00       0.00     33.87     36.28       0.00
P009946       1992 NAT. HIGHWAYS II                               153.00    153.00                0.00       0.00     51.88     41.11      29.91
P009869       1989 NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO                            485.00      0.00                0.00       0.00     72.17     72.17      26.62
Total:    6105.90    6794.22             46.00      887.53    7031.23    3140.65    532.54
- 74 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval       Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
2000              Tanflora Park                0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/90/94        Tata Electric                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Taurus Starshare             0.00    2.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.53    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93     Titan Industries             0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00
1989              UCAL                         0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00
1996              United Riceland             10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/96           VARUN                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              WIV                          0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1997              Walden-Mgt India             0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00
1997              20TH Century                 8.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              20th Century                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989              AEC                          5.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Ambuja Cement                2.67    4.94    0.00    0.00    2.67    4.94    0.00    0.00
1992/93           Arvind Mills                 0.00    9.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.88    0.00    0.00
1997              Asian Electronic             0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1984/91           Bihar Sponge                 0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1997              CEAT                        19.80    0.00    0.00    0.00   19.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92           CESC                        21.00    0.00    0.00   46.90   21.00    0.00    0.00   46.90
1995              Centurion Bank               0.00    4.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.67    0.00    0.00
2000              Chinai                       1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Chowgule                    11.71    4.58    0.00   17.97   11.71    4.58    0.00   17.97
1997              Duncan Hospital              7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              EEPL                         0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-City Mills               0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-STG                      0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              EXIMBANK                    11.37    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              GE Capital                   6.25    4.39    0.00    0.00    6.25    4.39    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94     GESCO                        0.00    1.85    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.85    0.00    0.00
1988/94           GKN Driveshafts              0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00
1994/97           GVK                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/98/00        Global Trust                 0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.78    0.00    0.00
Gujarat Ambuja               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              HDFC                         0.00    0.49    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.49    0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93     HOEL                         0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00
1990              Hindustan                    0.61    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.61    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987              IAAF                         0.00    2.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.14    0.00    0.00
1998              ICICI-IFGL                   0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00
1990/94          ICICI-SPIC Fine               0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00
1990/95/00        IDFC                         0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00
1998              IL & FS                      0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00
1990/93/94/98     IL&FS Venture                0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
1992/95          ITW Signode                   0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00
1981/86/91/93/96    India Direct Fnd           0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.33    0.00    0.00
1996              India Equipment              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95
- 75 -



Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval       Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1984/90/94        India Lease                  0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00
1993/94/96        Indo Rama                    0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00
1996              Indus 11                     0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00
1996              Indus Mauritius              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992              Indus VC Mgt Co              0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1992              Indus VCF                    0.00    0.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.92    0.00    0.00
1992              Info Tech Fund               0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00
1992/94/97        Ispat Industries             0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1989/95           JSB India                    0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00
1981/90/93        M&M                          0.00    0.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.55    0.00    0.00
1996/99/00        MoserBaer                   21.27   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   14.80    0.00    0.00
NICCO-UCO                    0.00    0.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.13    0.00    0.00
1992/96/97        Owens Coming                25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Pennar Steel                 0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00
1981              Prism Cement                13.13    5.02    0.00    9.00   13.13    5.02    0.00    9.00
1995              RCHL                         0.00    2.95    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.95    0.00    0.00
1995/98           Rain Calcining              17.78    5.46    0.00    0.00   17.78    5.46    0.00    0.00
1995              SAPL                         0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00
1997              SREI                         0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997/00           Sara Fund                    0.00    5.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.33    0.00    0.00
1995              Spryance.com                 0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
2001              Sundaram Finance             0.00    2.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.15    0.00    0.00
2000              TCW/ICICI                    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1998              TDICI-VECAUS II              0.00    0.74    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.74    0.00    0.00
1990              TISCO                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/92/94
Total Portfolio:     183.58  146.95    5.00   73.87  151.31  135.96    5.00   73.87
Approvals Pending Commnitment
FY Approval       Company                        Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000              SREI II                     10000.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
2001              Samruddhi                       0.00     0.00   1000.00     0.00
1999             Sarshatali Coal              30000.00     0.00   5000.00    0.00
2001              eGurucool                       0.00     0.00    250.00     0.00
2000              APCL                         7100.00     0.00   1900.00     0.00
1999             Carraro                      10000.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
2001              GTB SME Facility            20000.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
2000             IndAsia                          0.00     0.00  15000.00     0.00
2001             Internet Express                 0.00     0.00   5000.00     0.00
2001              Jetair                          0.00  15000.00    0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:   77100.00  15000.00  28150.00    0.00
- 76 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               South      Low-           . . .....-.
Indla      Asia  Incomo        Development dlamond'
1999
Population. mid-vear (millions)                        997,5      1,329     2A417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      440        440       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       441.8       581       988
Average annual orowth, 1993-99
PoDulation (%)                                           1.7        1.9       1.9
Labor force (%)                                          2,1        2.3       2.3      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                 capita                        enrollment
Povertv (% of Population below national povorty line)     35         -          -
Urban population (% of total population)                  28        28         31
Life oxDectancv at birth (vears)                         63         62        60
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 five births)                 70         75        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under S)                53        51         43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of Dooulation)         81        77         64
Illiteracy (% oftoopulation ago 15)                     44         46         39
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-ago populatlion)   100       100         96      -India             Low-income group
Malo                                                  109        110        102
Female                                                 90         90        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios*
GOP (US$ bifi,ons)                           150.1    290,5       419.1     447,3
Gross domestic investment/GOP                 22.8      24.1       21.8      22.9                      Trade
Exports ot goods and services/GOP               6.7      7.3       11.3      12.1
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                    20,7      21.8       19,2      20.0
Gross national savinqs/GOP                    22.2      21.4       20.8      22.1
Cvrrent account balance/GDP                    -0.5     -1.8       -0.8       0.8      Domestic                     Ines vmn
Interest oayments/GOP                          03        1.1        1.1       12      Domes                         Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 11,9     26.0       23.4      22.9      Savings
Total debt service/exports                     10.1     28.6       17.0      15.6
Prosent value of debt/GDP                        ,,       .,       20.1
Present value of debt/exports                    ..       ..    143.3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   5.7       5.8      6.8        6.5       6.4       -India          - Low-income group
GNP per capita                        3.3       3.9      4.9        4.9       4,7
ExDorts of qoods and services         4.9      11.8     12.5        1.7       7,5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            30
Agriculture                                    36.8     31.6       29.1      27.7
Industrv                                      25.0      27.6       25.7      26.3     15 -
Manufacturinq                                17.4     17.4       15.6      15.9
Services                                      38.3      40.8       45.2      46.0      0                                   "9
Private consumption                           69.2      66.1       68.6      68.0    -15 rrs
General qovernment consumption                 10.0     12.2       12.3      12.0              -GDI             c  GDP
Imports of qoods and services                   8.7      9.6       14.0      15.0
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                     3.4      3.3        7.2       1.3    40
Industry                                        6.6      6.5        4.0       8.8    30as
Manufacturing                                 7.0      7.0        3.6       8.5    2C 
Services                                        6.7      7.5        8.3       7.9
10
Private consumption                             5.5      5.2        3.2       2.9      a
General government consumption                  7.8      5.9       14.5      10.3      o      94      vs97    -
Gross domestic investment                       5.7      6.2        4.3      11.5    -1         -
Imports of goods and services                   6.5      8.8       -2.5      -3.6              Expons           :Impons
Gross national Product                          5.5      5.8        6.7       6.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) comPared with its income-group averaqe. It data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 77 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                   1
(% chanqe)                                                                        15
Consumer prices                                ..      6.2      13.2       4.6  1e-
Implicit GDP deflator                        15.8      8.3       8.9       3.3        K                  A
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes cunrent grants)                                                o
Current revenue                                ..    23.5       21.8      23.6            94   95   96   97   98
Current budget balance                          .      0.4      -1.7    -0 01             -G DP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -12.5      -10.6    -11.4
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  16,613    33,667    38,326      60.000
Tea                                          ..    550         547       564
Iron                                         ..    557         380       374     40.000
Manufactures                                  ..  12,730    26,870   31,314
Total imports (cif)                            ..  21,219    41,858    55,385                  _            
Food                                         ..    714        2,543    2,459    20,000
Fuel and energy                               ..   3,768      6,435    10,682
Capital goods                                 ..   5,288      9,122    10,192       o   _ _ _ _ _                     _
93  94  95  96  97  99  99
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..    113          94       92
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      89         92       90                 U Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    128         102       102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services               9,980   21,201    47,484   54,047      0
Imports of goods and services              13,120   27,934    58,565   67,250        I
Resource balance                           -3,140   -6,733   -11,081   -13,203              *           *          *   :
Net income                                    527    -798    -2,955    -3,133               i           i
Net current transfers                       1,852    2,281    10,587    12,638    _1
Current account balance                      -761   -5,249    -3,449    -3,699
Financing items (net)                        985    4,400      7,382    9,487
Changes in net reserves                      -224     850    -3,933    -5,788      2 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      7,581    4,582    33,584   38,150
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              8.1     16.7      42.1      43.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       17,898   75,407    98,232  102,626
IBRD                                       728    6,615      7,993    7,879                            A 789
IDA                                       4,505   12,521    18,562    18,984                0:4,329    A ,87
Total debt service                          1,282    6,955    10,001    10,527                /984
IBRD                                       127      881      1,627     1,415                                   B 19,994
IDA                                         43      188      1,372      458
Composition of net resource flows                                                   F: 42,241                      C:26
Official grants                            717      698        476      300
Official creditors                         646    2,489      1,727     1,701                                       503
Private creditors                           13    2,870    -1,433       414
Foreign direct investment                   49      252      2,635    2,155
Portfolio equity                             0      168        342    3,026                               E: 24,664
World Bank program
Commitments                                766    2,987      2,055      909      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              695    2,011      1,421     1,592     B- IDA    D - Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        77      450      2,193     1,211     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                   619    1,561       -772      381
Interest payments                           93      619        806      663
Net transfers                              525      942    -1,578       -282
Development Economics
- 78 -



