Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3529 IN
Project Agreement
(Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
Dated July 27, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3529 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and the STATE OF RAJASTHAN, acting by its Governor (Rajasthan).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty eight million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 58,500,000) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Rajasthan 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS Rajasthan, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Page  2
Section 2.01. (a) Rajasthan declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, and shall cause RCPE to carry 
out the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Rajasthan shall, and shall cause 
RCPE to, carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) At the request of the Association, Rajasthan shall, and shall 
cause RCPE to, exchange views with the Association through the Borrower with regard to 
the progress of the Project, the performance of their respective obligations under the 
Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, promptly inform the Association 
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
Rajasthan and RCPE of their respective obligations under the Project.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association and the Borrower not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and Rajasthan, a plan as to Rajasthan’s intentions to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project and incorporating the results of the second review 
conducted pursuant to Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement and paragraph 
12 (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Rajasthan, RCPE through the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, maintain a Financial 
Management System, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
financial management and accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project of the departments or agencies of Rajasthan 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof and of RCPE.
(b)
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year: 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Fiscal Year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
accounts and a report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
Page  3
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the Financial Management 
System referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to enable RCPE, not 
later than October 1, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of 
which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, Rajasthan shall cause RCPE to prepare, in accordance with the guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Rajasthan thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Rajasthan through the Borrower of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Page  4
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Rajasthan:
Chief Secretary
Government of Rajasthan
Jaipur
Rajasthan, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Rajasthan may 
be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Rajasthan shall designate in writing, and Rajasthan shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
By /s/ O.P. Beharti
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
Page  5
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost more than $20,000 equivalent per contract shall 
be procured under contracts awarded, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
(b)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,630,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
2.
Procurement of Small Goods (Except Vehicles)
(a)
Goods (except vehicles and proprietary software) estimated to: (i) cost 
$50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines; and (ii) cost $5,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured by direct 
contracting in accordance with the provision of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
(i) Books estimated to cost $5,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,050,000 equivalent; and (ii) proprietary 
software, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured 
by direct contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
(c)
Contracts for procurement of incentive items/supplies for focus group 
children referred to in paragraph 2(d) of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,800,000 equivalent, may be procured by direct
contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
3.
Vehicles
Vehicles estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $570,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $23,300,000 equivalent, may:
(i)
be procured by direct contracting in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,150,000 equivalent; 
(ii)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
Page  6
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully; or
(iii)
be procured under the unit/piece rate through qualified 
contractors or registered non-governmental organizations, other 
beneficiary associations or Village Panchyats; or
(iv)
as a last resort be carried out by force account of if they meet 
the requirements of the provision of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,150,000. 
5.
Contracts for Hiring of Vehicles, and Operation and Maintenance of Equipment and 
Vehicles
Contracts for hiring of vehicles, and operation and maintenance of equipment and 
vehicles referred to in paragraph 2(c) of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract or up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may:
(i)
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, be 
procured by direct contracting in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines; or
(ii)
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with an annual procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for works estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $300,000; (b) each contract for goods (except vehicles) and books 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $300,000; (c) each contract for vehicles 
estimated to cost more than equivalent of $100,000; (d) the first contract for works 
awarded under paragraph 1(a) of Part C of this Section I; and (e) the first contract 
for goods awarded under paragraph 1(b) of Part C of this Section I, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
Page  7
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications or Single Source Selection
Services: (a) for publicity, training and workshops; and (b) in the areas of 
information, education, communication, civil works, management information system and 
educational research, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,620,000 equivalent, may:
(i)
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines; 
or
(ii)
with the Association’s prior agreement services estimated to cost 
$1,000 equivalent or more per contract be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for institutional strengthening under Part C of the Project estimated 
to cost $10,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $5,870,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with an annual selection plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
Page  8
(d)
Without limitation on any other provisions of this paragraph 2, terms of 
reference for all consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of $12,000 or 
more per contract in the case of firms, and the equivalent of $5,000 or more per 
contract in the case of individuals, shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval, and the contracts for such services shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, carry out the Project in accordance 
with: (i) the DPEP Guidelines; and (ii) the Project Implementation Plan.
2.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, as appropriate: (i) by December 31, 
2001, complete the appointment of individuals with adequate skills, qualifications and 
experience to the positions in SPO and each DPO as specified in the Project 
Implementation Plan; and (ii) at all times maintain SPO, DPOs, DIETs, SIERT and CEM 
with powers, functions, staff, resources and facilities necessary for the effective 
implementation of the Project.
3.
Rajasthan shall ensure that at least ninety five percent (95%) of the teachers’ 
posts in the Project Districts, starting June 1, 2002, remain filled with teachers 
throughout the Project implementation period.
4.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, establish by December 31, 2001, and 
thereafter maintain in all the Project Districts a SMC or WEC for each school 
(including an alternative school) in accordance with the criteria and procedures set 
forth in the Project Implementation Plan.
5.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, establish by September 30, 2001, and 
thereafter maintain, technical resource groups in all the Project Districts to assist 
in the development and implementation of the Project, in accordance with the criteria 
and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Plan.
6.
By December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2006, Rajasthan shall, and shall cause 
RCPE to conduct achievement surveys, and furnish to the Association the results of 
such surveys, including data, as of September 30, 2003 and September 30, 2006, 
respectively, for all the Project Districts on: (i) the enrollment of children in the 
age group of 6 to 11 years in primary education; (ii) the primary education dropout 
rates; and (iii) mathematics and language achievement scores of children in primary 
education, all with separate categories for females, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled 
Tribes and other backward classes.
7.
By March 31, 2004, Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to: (i) arrange for 
evaluation of early childhood education centers, alternative schools, changes in 
classroom teaching practice, functioning of BRCs, CRCs and SMCs and quality of civil 
works; and (ii) share the results of such evaluations with the Association.
8.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, ensure that no involuntary 
resettlement arises from any use of land, or change of land use for the Project, 
except to the extent that the Association agrees in writing prior to any land use that 
the arrangements for such involuntary resettlement, if any, are satisfactory to the 
Association.
9.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to:
(a)
implement the Project in accordance with strategies for improving primary 
education for children from socially and economically disadvantaged groups as set 
forth in the Project Implementation Plan; and
(b)
implement the Project in all tribal areas (as designated by Rajasthan in 
accordance with applicable state laws) in accordance with procedures and strategies 
for the delivery of the Project benefits to tribal people as set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan.
Page  9
10.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, ensure that the resources provided for 
primary education under the Project (including without limitation teaching and 
learning materials and school facilities) will be used exclusively for purposes of 
primary schools and primary sections of other schools. 
11.
Rajasthan shall take all such actions as may be necessary or appropriate in 
order to require and enable RCPE to carry out its obligations under the Memorandum of 
Understanding and the functions entrusted to it under this Agreement, all in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.
12.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with agreed indicators, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association and the Borrower on two occasions 
by March 31, 2004 and October 31, 2006, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of each such report (including, in the case of the first 
such report, the results of the evaluation referred to in paragraph 7 above) and 
setting forth the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; and
(c)
conduct in-depth reviews with the Association and the Borrower by April 
30, 2004 and November 30, 2006, or such later date as the Borrower and the Association 
shall agree, of the respective reports referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and after the first review, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the first report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
