                               Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR0000818




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-35290)




                                  ON A

                                 CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.5 MILLION
                    (US$ 74.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO

                                  INDIA

                                  FOR A

      RAJASTHAN SECOND DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT




                            September 25, 2008




Human Development Unit
India
South Asia Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            Exchange Rate (Effective August 21, 2008)

                  Currency Unit = Indian rupee (Rs.)
                        Rs. 100.00 = US$ 2.29
                         US$ 1.00 = Rs. 43.62

                            FISCAL YEAR
                          April 1 ­ March 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIE     Alternative and Innovative Education
ASER    Annual Status of Education Reports
AWPB    Annual Work Plan and Budget
BAS     Baseline Assessment Survey
BRC     Block Resource Center
CAG     Comptroller and Auditor General
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CTS     Child Tracking System
CFR     Concurrent Financial Review
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report
CRC     Cluster Resource Center
CWSN    Children with Special Needs
CSS     Centrally Sponsored Scheme
DEA     Department of Economic Affairs
DEEL    Department of Elementary Education and Literacy
DFID    Department for International Development (UK)
DIET    District Institute for Education and Training
DISE    District Information System for Education
DP      Development Partners
DPEP    District Primary Education Program
EC      European Commission
ECCE    Early Childhood Care and Education
EDI     Educational Development Index
EEB     Elementary Education Bureau
EFA     Education for All
EGS     Education Guarantee Scheme
EMIS    Education Management Information System
FM      Financial Management
FMIS    Financial Management Information System
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GER     Gross Enrollment Ratio
GOI     Government of India
GOR     Government of Rajasthan
GPI     Gender Parity Index
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Agency
INR     Indian National Rupee
IPR     Implementation Procurement Review

IRR     Internal Rate of Return
ISR     Implementation Status Report
KGBV    Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (Girls in special hardship areas)
LJ      Lok Jumbish (People's Movement)
MAS     Mid-Term Assessment Survey
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MDM     Mid-Day Meal Scheme
MHRD    Ministry of Human Resource Development
MIS     Management Information System
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MS      Mahila Samakhya (Program for Women Empowerment)
MTA     Mother Teacher Association
NAS     National Achievement Surveys
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NCERT   National Council for Educational Research and Training
NCTE    National Council for Teacher Education
NER     Net Enrolment Ratio
NGO     Non-Governmental Organisation
NIEPA   National Institute for Educational Planning and Administration
NPE     National Policy on Education
NPEGEL  National Program for Girls' Education at the Elementary Level
NPV     Net Present Value
NRBC    Non Residential Bridge Courses
NSS     National Sample Surveys
NSSO    National Sample Survey Organization
NUEPA   National University for Educational Planning and Administration
OECD    Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
OOSC    Out Of School Children
PAB     Project Approval Board
PHED    Public Health Engineering Department
PMIS    Project Management Information System
PPP     Public Private Partnership
PRI     Panchayati Raj Institutions
PTA     Parents-Teachers Association
PTR     Pupil Teacher Ratio
QAP     Quality Assurance Program
QMF     Quality Monitoring Framework
RBC     Residential Bridge Courses
RCEP    Rajasthan Council for Primary Education
REI     Rajasthan Education Initiative
RGSP    Rajiv Gandhi Shiksha Pathshalas
SC      Scheduled Caste
SCERT   State Council of Education Research and Training
SDMC    School Development & Management Committees
SDO     Social Development Objective
SIEMAT  State Institute of Educational Management and Training
SIERT   State Institute of Education Research and Training
SIS     State Implementation Society
SPAR    State Procurement Assessment Report
SPD     State Project Director

SPO    State Project Office
SRI    Social and Rural Research Institute
SSA    Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan
ST     Scheduled Tribe
SWAp   Sectorwide Approach
TAS    Terminal Assessment Survey
TDP    Tribal Development Plan
TLM    Teaching Learning Material
TSG    Technical Support Group
UEE    Universal Elementary Education
UT     Union Territories
VEC    Village Education Committee
WB     The World Bank




               Vice President: Isabel Guerrero

             Country Director: Rachid Benmessaoud

              Sector Manager: Amit Dar

         Project Team Leader: Nalin Jena

            ICR Team Leader: Sofia Shakil

                                                       INDIA
                  Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project




                                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...........................................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...........................................................3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.........................................................................................................9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .....................................................................15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................................................16
 6. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................................18
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......................19
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................................21
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..............................................................................................22
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..............................................................................30
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .........................32
 Annex 5. Borrower's ICR..........................................................................................................34
 Annex 6. List of Support Documents........................................................................................45
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Rajasthan Second
Country:                India                 Project Name:          District Primary
                                                                     Education Project
Project ID:             P055455               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35290
ICR Date:               09/25/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
Original Total
                        XDR 58.5M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 51.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Department of School Education, Government of India
Rajasthan Council of Primary Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/10/1998    Effectiveness:       09/05/2001          09/05/2001
Appraisal:             04/06/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/21/2001    Mid-term Review:                         12/13/2004
                                     Closing:             12/31/2006          03/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                 Quality at Entry
                                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          No                                      Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Pre-primary education                                          5                  5
Primary education                                             65                65
Sub-national government administration                        24                24
Tertiary education                                             6                  6


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                            Primary         Primary
Gender                                                      Secondary        Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                           Primary         Primary
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                     Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                 Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Rachid Benmessaoud              Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:           Amit Dar                        Richard Lee Skolnik
Project Team Leader:      Nalin Jena                      Susan E. Hirshberg
ICR Team Leader:          Sofia Shakil
ICR Primary Author:       Sofia Shakil



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of DPEP and this project are to ensure that all 6-11 year old children in
nine districts, especially from socially and economically disadvantaged groups, have
access to a five-year primary education cycle of appropriate quality. It is expected to



                                            ii

result in increased enrollments and community involvement in primary education,
improved teacher performance, better capacity to manage the education system, greater
learning and higher completion rates of the primary cohort.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Increase in Gross Enrollment Ratio
Value
quantitative or 95%                       All children                       117.09
Qualitative)                              enrolled

Date achieved 09/05/2001                   12/31/2006                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Good progress in increasing GER.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Decrease in drop-out rate and increase in retention rate
Value           Drop-out rate: 60%        Drop out rate to be
quantitative or                           less than 10                       27%
Qualitative)                              percent
Date achieved 06/12/2006                   12/31/2006                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        While drop outs have decreased, this is a major challenge for future agenda, and

achievement)    will require concerted effort to improve the classroom learning environment

Indicator 3 :   A 25% gain in learning achievement of all children and girls in Language (Lang)
                and Mathematics (Math) over the baseline

                Grade II: All                                                GradeII: All

                children:Mean score in                                       children-Lang-78.2:

                Lang- 66.05 and Math.-    To raise the                       Math-83: Girls-

Value           68.9: Girls-Lang-64.85:   average                            Lang-78; Math-83.

quantitative or Math-66.60:               achivement levels                  Grade V: All

Qualitative)    Grade V: All children:    by at least 25%                    children: Mean

                Mean score Lang-          over the baseline.                 score-Lang-67.3;

                29.57:Math- 40.63: Girls-                                    Math-58.5: Girls-

                Lang-51.40: Math-39.55                                       Lang-67; Math-
                                                                             58.3
Date achieved 03/31/2000                   12/31/2006                        03/31/2008
Comments        While learning achievements are showing improvements, these should be treated
(incl. %        as preliminary findings. More work is required to improve the quality of testing
achievement)    instruments and analysis.

Indicator 4 :   A 25% gain in learning achievement of Scheduled Caste and Tribe (SC & ST)
                children in Language and Mathematics.



                                                 iii

                Grade II:SC- Lang-65.90;                                     Grade II: SC-Lang-
                                          To raise the                       78; Math-83: ST-
Value           Math-69.15: ST-Lang-      average                            Lang-79; Math-84.
quantitative or 68.20; Math-69.05         achievement levels                 Grade V: SC-Lang-
Qualitative)    Grade-V: SC-Lang-
                50.59;Math-40.35: ST-     by at least 25%                    67; Math-59: ST-

                Lang-51.49; Math-35.95    over the baseline                  Lang-67.9; Math
                                                                             59.6
Date achieved 03/31/2000                  12/31/2006                         03/31/2008
Comments        While learning achievements are showing improvements, these should be treated
(incl. %        as preliminary findings. More work is required to improve the quality of testing
achievement)    instruments and analysis.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                          Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised         Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Enrollment of out-of-school children
Value                                                                        22,286 out of
(quantitative   208,305 out-of-school     All out-of-school                  school children
or Qualitative) children                  children enrolled                  remaining (1.36%)
Date achieved 09/05/2001                  12/31/2006                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The remaining out of school children are the most difficult to target.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Number of Alternative Schools established and additional classrooms provided
                                                                             929 Alternative
                                          Number of                          Schools (310 6hr
Value           Number of Alternative     Alternative                        AS and 619 4hr
(quantitative   Schools-0: Additional     Schools-880:                       AS).
or Qualitative) classrooms-0              Additional                         4059 Additional
                                          Classrooms-2800                    classrooms
                                                                             provided
Date achieved 09/05/2001                  12/31/2006                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Targets exceeded.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Number of Block Resource Centers (BRCs) and Cluster Resource Centers
                (CRCs) established
Value                                     49 BRCs and 678
(quantitative   No BRC and CRC exists CRCs to be                             59 BRCs and 766

or Qualitative)                           established.                       CRCs established

Date achieved 09/05/2001                  12/31/2006                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Targets exceeded, but focus now required on strengthening BRCs/CRCs to make

achievement)    them more effective in follow up.

Indicator 4 :   Number of School Development and Management Committees (SDMCs) formed



                                               iv

Value
(quantitative  No SDMCs exists         7684 SDMCs to be                  7684 SDMCs

or Qualitative)                        established                       established

Date achieved 09/05/2001               12/31/2006                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       100% target achieved. Further capacity building required.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                         IP              Disbursements
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1     01/03/2002         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    3.50
  2     02/05/2002         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    3.50
  3     06/27/2002         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    4.45
  4     12/23/2002         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    8.67
  5     06/30/2003         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   19.56
  6     12/05/2003         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   22.46
  7     06/17/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   32.22
  8     12/27/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   36.41
  9     06/13/2005         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   44.02
  10    12/16/2005         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              47.46
  11    06/12/2006         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              57.46
  12    12/19/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                59.26
  13    06/19/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                64.49
  14    12/18/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                67.12



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                             v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project (DPEP II) was seventh in a series of
DPEPs initiated in 1994 to improve education in low literacy districts across India, where female
literacy was below the national average of 38 percent. The DPEP series were supported across 18
states in India, covering more than 270 districts with an investment of over $1.5 billion made by
the World Bank and other partners. Rajasthan was among the last to implement DPEP, and was
among the states posing the largest challenge of very low performance in education. At the time
of DPEP, state-wide female literacy was 20.8 percent in Rajasthan, a state with among the lowest
social indicators in the country and with high levels of poverty, and all 32 districts were eligible
for DPEP according to the criteria. Out of these districts, 10 were supported by the Bank under
Rajasthan DPEP which became effective in October 1999 and ended in 2006; and nine were
selected for support under DPEP II.1 DPEP II was designed as the second phase of an ongoing
program, Rajasthan DPEP, to extend the coverage of access and quality initiatives to additional
districts in the State.


The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated March 13, 2001 targeted the poor and
disadvantaged as part of India's human development strategy to support poverty reduction and
economic growth. The Bank and other development partners had supported the Government's
District Primary Education Program (DPEP) through eight projects and the 2001 CAS
recommended scaling up based on the achievements to date. The context, at the time of
appraisal, was characterized by low and inequitable enrollment; low efficiency (repetition, drop
out and retention); poor teaching and learning outcomes; inadequate pedagogical support and
weak management. Interstate variations in education development contributed to the variation in
the incidence of poverty and provided a rationale for investing in primary education in order to
improve incomes and social indicators in Rajasthan ­ in line with Government priorities. The
project aimed to address these weaknesses in the system, especially to make access to primary
education more inclusive by specifically targeting marginalized groups (females, Scheduled
Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), Other Backward Castes, working children and children with
special needs ­ CWSN). Enrollment rates are particularly low for these groups and access to and
participation in primary schools is even more difficult in rural areas.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objectives of the project were to assist the Government of Rajasthan in providing access to
primary education of appropriate quality which would ensure successful completion of the cycle
to all children between the ages of 6-11 in the project's nine districts. It was expected to result in
increased enrollments and community involvement in primary education, improved teacher
performance, better capacity to manage the education system, greater learning and higher
completion rates of the primary cohort.

Specifically, the project was designed to: a) expand access, retention and enrollments; b)
improve quality and achievement; c) build capacity to manage primary education at the state,
district and local levels.

1
  At this time, the remaining 13 districts were covered under the DFID-financed Lok Jumbish Project.




                                                           1

Key project development outcome indicators included:

    a) Increase in Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER)
    b) Decrease in drop out rate and increase in retention rate
    c) Increase (25% gain) in learning achievement of all children and girls in Language and
        Mathematics over the baseline
    d) Increase (25% gain) in learning achievement of Scheduled Caste and Tribe children in
        Language and Mathematics

The intermediate outcome indicators included:

    a) Increased enrollment of out of school children
    b) Number of Alternative Schools established and additional classrooms provided
    c) Number of Block Resource Centers (BRCs) and Cluster Resource Centers (CRCs)
        established
    d) Number of School Development and Management Committees (SDMCs) formed


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators

There were no changes or revisions to the PDO.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries of this project were the 350,000 out-of-school children between the
ages 6-11 in the 9 project districts. It was anticipated that of these 200,000 would be enrolled by
project end. Of the target population, over 60 percent are girls and the rest children from
disadvantages groups such as Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST), working children and
children with special needs (CWSN). The establishment of 400 Early Childhood Care and
Education (ECCE) centers was to benefit 12,000 children in age cohort 3-6 years.

Other beneficiaries included the state and district level institutions such as the State Institute of
Education Management & Training (SIEMAT), State Institute for Education Research and
Training (SIERT), District Institutes for Education and Training (DIET), BRCs, CRCs, SDMCs,
etc. which were expected to benefit from the capacity building efforts.

Awareness campaigns for parents and teacher sensitization improved participation of children
from the disadvantaged groups, as did other interventions. Teachers were beneficiaries of the
teacher training programs supplemented by ongoing pedagogical support, improved textbooks
and supplementary learning materials. Capacity building in villages and communities has led to
improved management and supervision of local schools by local communities.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Funding is allocated as per the pre defined components for three specific set of interventions,
improving primary participation and retention rates, quality of classroom learning and education
management capacity at all levels of government.

Project Component 1 ­ US $38.40 million

The project component targets increasing access to and retention in primary education,
particularly for children in socially and economically disadvantaged groups. Also targeted was



                                                   2

closing the staffing gap and providing para-teachers, conducting social mobilization and
awareness building through establishment of School Management Committees (SMCs), and
construction and rehabilitation of schools and classrooms as per need.

Project Component 2 ­ US $28.20 million

The project component aims to improving quality of classroom processes and enhancing learning
achievements in primary education. Teaching support included pedagogical support and
textbooks and teaching aids were improved. The component also provided for the establishment
of distance learning programs, and funding for school libraries. Funding was also provided to
monitor student learning achievements and conduct periodic assessments. Missing facilities and
physical upgradation of schools, particularly those for girls, was also accounted for.

Project Component 3 ­ US $20.90 million

To improve state, district and sub district primary education management capacity, institutional
reform at the state and district level was undertaken to improve policy development, monitoring
and evaluation, teacher training and SMC supervision.


1.6 Revised Components
No revisions.


1.7 Other significant changes
The only change was in extension of closing date (from December 31, 2006 original closing date,
to March 31, 2008).


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

DPEP II was built upon a strong foundation of sector program experience in Rajasthan. Several
programs, such as Lok Jumbish and Shiksha Karmi, as well as DPEP I, provided the platform for
DPEP II. While designing the project, the Government of Rajasthan considered maintaining a
holistic elementary education development strategy to ensure that DPEP II would build upon the
lessons and gains of these earlier programs. Further, it is clearly evident from project
documentation and reports as well as from discussion with project management and staff that the
project's objectives were designed keeping in view the situation analysis, contextual relevance
and maintaining an objective-oriented focus. Specifically, the project was designed to address the
low participation rates, especially among the marginalized communities through the decentralized
approach, and the poor learning environment in schools. The project's preparation and design
was informed by detailed assessments that involved community and other stakeholders.
Participatory processes were built into the design of the program, through the local level planning
and consultation in the preparation of district plans and the establishment of SDMCs. DPEP II
also conceived the partnership with non government organizations (NGOs) in capacity building.

Risks and Mitigation. The project at entry identified some risks to achieving objectives. Major
substantial and modest risks included the competing demands on the state's resources under the
prevalent fiscal situation which could affect the ability to sustain project interventions; burden of
handling additional districts by the State Project Office (SPO) which could hamper project
implementation; possible negative impacts on quality by using para-teachers; inability to
effectively deliver pedagogic renewal and training; and ineffective targeting of interventions for
socially disadvantaged groups. Further, a substantial risk identified included the difficult



                                                  3

characteristics of the nine districts with low indicators of education attainment making it difficult
to achieve the project objectives. Appropriate risk mitigating measures were identified, and
included supporting lower cost delivery systems (including hiring of para-teachers and low cost
civil works design) to ensure the ability to sustain the project interventions; giving more control
to local level institutions ­ district and below, including greater involvement of Panchayati Raj
(local self government) Institutions (PRIs) and SDMCs, to and generally more community
involvement to mitigate against risks relating to ineffective targeting and difficulties in service
delivery to the marginalized communities; and using state level resource institutions as well as
well-known NGOs to be represented on committees responsible for developing training modules
and putting a lot of emphasis in the initial years on imparting training (especially for para-
teachers).

One important risk, although implied, was not clearly and explicitly identified ­ and this relates to
the capacity at district and block/cluster level to effectively provide the kind of support that is
required to bring about pedagogical renewal. If this risk, linked specifically to local level
capacity, had been identified, appropriate mitigating measures would have included providing a
specialized capacity building program for the block and cluster level officials and for the pool of
resource persons at all levels who were in place to provide pedagogical support for teachers ­
thus shifting the focus on quality interventions from input provision to ongoing support for
effective use of inputs at the classroom level.


2.2 Implementation

Institutional Mechanisms & Administration Capacity. Overall implementation of the project
was guided under the broader DPEP Guidelines developed by the Ministry of Human Resource
Development (MHRD) in 1993 and amended periodically to reflect issues emerging from
implementation experiences. These guidelines provided the basics, financial parameters,
planning process guidelines, and support for monitoring, and the Project Implementation Plan
prepared by the state also guided implementation. The Rajasthan Council for Primary Education
(RCPE) served as the apex institution to provide guidance to the education priorities and their
implementation in the state, with its Executive Committee functioning as the apex decision
making body. The implementing agency, the State Project Office (SPO), provided effective
management of all project aspects, including planning, implementation and monitoring, and also
coordinated the project in the nine project districts. In the early stages of the project, however,
there were frequent changes in key positions at the state level and the impact of this was reflected
in slow implementation progress and not sufficient commitment. Better staff and leadership
continuity towards the last two years of the project did enable better implementation. Discussions
with several district project officials revealed that in those districts where officials had been in
place for several years, there was clearly more articulation of holistic district education
development and collaboration with other programs.

Commitment & Participation. A major contributing factor to the success of the project was the
high level of the state Government's commitment and emphasis on decentralization and
stakeholder participation. The ownership of the State Government was clearly reflected through
the participation at the highest level ­the State Council of Primary Education. Decentralized
educational management and oversight through partnership with the SDMC, and participation of
the which includes the local self-government, PRIs, the parents and other village elders provided
the desired push in ensuring access to all children to primary schools in almost all habitations in
the nine districts. The participation of various stakeholders in planning, implementation and
supervision enabled the project to a very great extent to achieve the objective of enrolling every
child in school. Participatory processes built into the design of the program, through the local


                                                    4

level planning and consultation in the preparation of district plans and their implementation
through various decentralized bodies including the SDMCs have been very useful in achieving
the project objectives.

Planning & Coordination. The GOR's approach to decentralized planning was evident in the
Annual Work Plan and Budgeting (AWPB) process involving the community through
establishment of SDMCs, and the participation of NGOs. Such decentralized planning
encouraged dialogue between the State, district, block level functionaries and the communities
that helped to promote need-based target setting, fund allocation as well as innovations to meet
the local requirements. Decentralized planning also led to empowerment of different sections of
the community which enhanced both access and equity, particularly for the girls and the children
of the disadvantaged communities. Over time, the AWPB process has become more participatory
and reflects bottom up planning reflecting the needs of the communities (this is a process being
supported by the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) program as well). DPEP has also strengthened
micro-planning and school mapping introduced under the Lok Jumbish project.

Similarly, the state's commitment to primary education reforms was demonstrated in the
synergies maintained between the various sources of interventions and programs to strengthen
education outcomes (also see 2.5 below for more discussion). This has been a positive factor
affecting implementation and this will enable the Government of Rajasthan (GOR) to achieve its
education outcomes in the years to come, particularly on access and equity, and has helped to
strengthen the synergies with other education programs. However, institutions such as SIERT
and SIEMAT could be strengthened more to provide better information on outcomes and helping
state and district level institutions optimally coordinate the resources available for improving
quality interventions.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design & Implementation. With delays in setting up a comprehensive monitoring system
for managing education information in the state, the Education Management Information System
(EMIS) did not begin to function until the last two years of the project, and only began to fully
function in the last year. Continuous and concerted efforts of the Bank's task team were made
during each supervision mission, and a separate mission only on MIS was undertaken to
emphasize to the State the need for putting in the MIS system. The effort of Government of India
(GOI) at the highest level to take these suggestions seriously led to the mobilization of the SPO to
develop and strengthen the EMIS, which became fully functional by the last year of the project.
EMIS is a comprehensive system comprising the District Information System for Education
(DISE), data gathered and generated through field monitoring, studies and surveys, and other
information such as student achievement reports. Now, the data generated through DISE are
increasingly being put to use by the management. There are efforts to integrate the DISE data
and the CTS (Child Tracking System) for effective planning and monitoring. GOR is also
planning to conduct household surveys to plan for any remaining access gaps. The flow of
information from school to cluster and above has been streamlined which was quite an issue for
the first few years of the project. The challenge however is to strengthen the culture and practice
of using EMIS as a management and planning tool, to continuously update the data and
supplement it with additional survey-based information to help education planning.

The state has also started to monitor quality through the Quality Monitoring Framework (QMF)
developed by National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT) which captures
additional information compared to DISE, including that of student achievement based on school
exams and the Quality Assurance Program (QAP). The MIS capacities at the district and block


                                                   5

level are still limited to handle such information to ensure accuracy and timeliness, however with
additional capacity building and focused management attention, these can easily be strengthened.
These recent developments in M&E are positive, particularly the established links between the
districts and SPO which seem to be working well. The state also conducted a number of
evaluation studies during and after the mid-term, which provide useful insights for the continuing
programs. These need to be disseminated more systematically at the state and district level so
that lessons learned can be used.

M&E Utilization. For a robust and functioning EMIS that can ensure generation of quality data
to feed into the planning process, the SPO needs to now focus on strengthening these links.
Similarly, the culture of using and analyzing data needs to be deepened for planning strategic
interventions. Specific roles to be played at different organizational levels in data collection,
collation and use require skilled personnel and substantial capacity building. This is equally
important for monitoring processes and inputs, as well as student learning. The State of
Rajasthan is now starting to produce report cards for each level ­ school, cluster, block, and
district ­ and this information can be used to improve the gaps in teaching and learning. As
mentioned above, dissemination of findings of the various evaluation studies will help relevant
stakeholder departments to use the information to improve design of schemes and programs.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance


Safeguard compliance is rated as satisfactory.


Environment Aspects. The project was classified as environmental category C, with
environmental issues relating primarily to civil works, for construction of schools, classrooms and
latrines, and provision of water supply and sanitation facilities. The project incorporated
provisions to mitigate any potential adverse environmental impacts from inappropriate
construction practices and inadequate operation and maintenance of sanitation and water supply
facilities. First, a framework of norms was included in the construction manual developed under
Rajasthan DPEP I which was also utilized in DPEP II, enabling standardization in construction
designs, good construction practices and management and operation procedures, including
planting of trees to enhance the environment. The norms also included applying construction
building codes, ventilation, safety and hygiene ­ and these provisions were included in bidding
documents. Training was also provided to the subgroups of SDMCs which undertook
construction, and project engineers provided regular supervision followed by certification on
structural safety, waterproofing, ventilation, and other compliance with set state standards. The
project coordinated with Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) for provision of
adequate water and sanitation facilities, and PHED undertook appropriate monitoring to ensure
satisfactory compliance.


There were no major issues during project implementation related to the environmental aspects,
and quality of civil works was found to be satisfactory. The supervision and training provided by
project engineers was evidently effective as SDMC members involved in school construction
activities are knowledgeable about the norms and their implementation. However, better use of
facilities, particularly sanitation/latrines is needed as visits to every school revealed presence of
toilets but obviously low utilization. Focusing on strengthening capacity and resources for
operation and management may encourage teachers to facilitate increased use of such facilities.


Social Aspects. The project's key Social Development Objective (SDO) was to ensure greater
equality among the different socioeconomic groups in terms of knowledge about schooling, and



                                                    6

attitudes and behaviors among parents as well as teachers and school administrators. This was to
have led to greater demand which would create increased enrollment, retention and learning
achievement among children of disadvantaged communities. The project, as evident from
assessment of achievement of objectives on access, has been successful in achieving the SDO.
The social assessment of the project also identified stakeholder participation as key for
participatory approach. Mobilization of communities especially for participation in SDMCs has
been the vehicle for ensuring stakeholder participation, and establishment and involvement of
Block and Village Education Committees in mobilization and enrollment drives has also been
effective in helping achieve the SDO.


Collaboration with NGOs, which was not so strong at the time of DPEP I ICR, was actively
promoted and several initiatives were implemented to enhance participation in education among
marginalized communities including some best practice models for targeting urban slum
communities. NGOs were also involved in conducting the district-wise Social Assessments in the
nine project districts, and in implementation of community mobilization and other school-based
activities, particularly in the urban slums. Participation of NGOs could be strengthened to
improve outreach in the future in rural areas.


Consultations with tribal communities were also a key feature of social assessments, and state and
district project officials appear to have established reasonable channels of coordination and
communication with the Social Welfare Department's Tribal Development Authority. The
officials are aware of the need to focus on the ST and SC and minority communities in order to
bridge the social gaps in the access agenda, and also for improving regular attendance and
completion rates.


The emphasis in the project on provision of adequate physical facilities, especially toilets, has
encouraged the greater participation of girls in schooling.


Fiduciary compliance is rated as moderately satisfactory.


Financial Management (FM): While the FM capacity varied at different levels, and was weak at
the start, the quality of financial management of the project evolved considerably over the project
period, and will help in the continued implementation of activities under SSA. While the flow of
funds from MHRD to SPO and from SPO to districts and from districts to SDMCs was generally
timely and sufficient, except during the initial one or two years, record keeping however suffered
due to lack of computerization and inadequate staffing. This also led to delays initially in the
submission of audit reports to MHRD and in submission of utilization certificates. The limited
internal audit capacity and the absence of a properly operational financial management
information system (FMIS) were some of the major constraints for an efficient financial
management system.

However, the financial management weaknesses observed in the early years were progressively
overcome by taking appropriate steps, such as regular and rigorous monitoring by SPO of district
offices. This involved developing a system of monthly reporting on key FM aspects to enable the
SPO to monitor regularity of accounting and internal controls, such as level of advances and
pending UCs at district office level. The project also issued guidelines for accounting and
maintenance of records at village level and carried out some capacity building activities for
accounts staff at district office and other levels. Annual Compendium prepared by the project
appears to be a useful tool of implementation of activities at village level. The project instituted a
system of internal audit by an in-house team to cover period from financial year 2006-07 on a



                                                   7

concurrent basis, which also covered BRCs, CRCs and SDMCs on a sample basis. A system of
visit by block level accountants was also initiated recently, in which each block officer has to
visit ten SDMCs every month and submit monitoring reports of these visits to SPO. The State
plans to strengthen SDMC capacity in accounting through training, which will further help to
improve the FM system for ensuring effective education expenditures.


Procurement: The procurement under the project generally proceeded satisfactorily without any
problems. The construction of most school buildings was carried out by community contracting.
Most of the other procurement followed shopping and National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures. There was no International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement under the
project. As a major portion of the procurement was small value procurement, most of the
procurement was subject to Post Review.


Overall, procurement under the project was found to be generally transparent and efficient by the
Implementation Procurement Review (IPR) (70 percent of the contracts reviewed on both
accounts) conducted in June 2007. Physical inspections carried out as part of the IPR showed
satisfactory results. The findings of the IPR pointed out deficiencies caused by delays between
bid opening and contract signature, and due to improper filing of bid documents, evaluations and
contracts. These findings for DPEP and for other projects in Rajasthan for which the IPR was
done were presented to GOR.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Upon completion of DPEP II, the initiatives and activities required to meet Rajasthan's education
development objectives are being supported under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), which is
the flagship program supported jointly by the GOI and state governments for universalization of
elementary education. The focus of SSA is on elementary education, while that of DPEP was on
primary. However, the remaining agenda in access and quality at the primary level, as well as
that of upper primary, will continue to be supported under SSA. Outside of the nine districts
covered under DPEP II, SSA has been under implementation since 2001 in Rajasthan. The SPO
for DPEP is the same for SSA, which makes the institutional arrangement in the transition
seamless. Further, the SSA program (and the Elementary Education Project that the development
partners support) was based on the analysis and lessons learned from past programs, in particular
the DPEPs, which has created an alignment of objectives.

One of the main factors that will sustain the initiatives and reforms that were initiated under
DPEP and being carried forward by SSA is the GOR's outlook on education priorities for the
state, which is characterized by its focus on meeting the objectives and outcomes of
universalization of elementary education. Over the course of implementation of DPEP II, the
state maintained strong coordination between various programs and interventions in the education
sector such as the Mid Day Meal Program, Integrated Child Development Scheme, Total
Sanitation Program for provision of toilets and with PHED for drinking water supply , among
others ­ to form a framework for achieving the overall development objectives. This aspect has
created a "program" perspective among the key state officials, which will help to ensure
continuity of reforms. Even at the district and below level, there is good coordination between
the various initiatives in the implementation of the program. It is needless to say, emphasis on
coordinated and inclusive planning will only further strengthen the state's efforts to ensure
synergies and sustainability of reforms.




                                                   8

The project employed some innovative practices and interventions, such as public private
arrangements in urban settlements, which aimed to reach the hard to reach children. These need
to be evaluated, and then considered for scaling up. The State of Rajasthan is already considering
reviewing several pilot interventions that could be scaled up or extended ­ such as the PPP
arrangements in urban and in some rural areas, continuation of bridge courses and alternative
schools for hard to reach communities as well as for the students continually dropping out of the
regular schools, and other pilots in the model schools such as integration of cultural activities.
Lessons from such pilots (based on evaluation results) can also inform the design and
implementation of SSA in other states.


3. Assessment of Outcomes


3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the project were entirely relevant to Rajasthan's and India's overall and sector
priorities as reflected in the GOI's five year plans and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
FY01-04. The objectives of the project are also highly relevant to the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs) relating to gender parity and education for all. Further, Rajasthan DPEP II was
designed on the basis of the lessons learned from and to continue with the gains of the DPEP
approach. DPEP was developed in 1994 and adapted by the GOI as the approach for helping
India and its states to bridge the access gaps and improve the quality of education at the primary
level. The emphasis in DPEP II on addressing supply side constraints (particularly facilities and
teachers) in lagging districts with focus on marginalized and underserved communities has
proven to be highly relevant. Creation of demand through mobilization campaigns and
participation and organization of communities is also a key feature of the relevance of the design
of the project. Implementing such an ambitious, yet focused, agenda would not have been
possible without adequate institutional and management processes , and the project design
ensured that adequate focus was placed on supporting establishment and strengthening of
monitoring and management systems, including the BRC/CRC to ensure support for schools and
teachers. These are foundations of a strong and effective system that will need to continue and be
strengthened.

Beyond India, the experience of DPEP overall and of this project in particular holds much
relevance and opportunities for learning lessons for other countries in the region. The objective
of increasing access is a common one for most countries still struggling with large numbers of out
of school children, yet the lessons are to be learned from adoption of various strategies,
coordinated and synergized approaches, and strong participatory institutions (ranging from
empowered SDMCs, to the role of PRI ­ village level institutions). Further, the role and
structures of the state and district management and implementation mechanisms, as well as that of
the BRC/CRC provide useful insights for others that are grappling with issues relating to putting
in place strong pedagogical renewal and support for teachers through decentralized support.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Three components were pursued to achieve the overall PDO, which was to ensure that all 6 ­ 11
year old children in the nine districts had access to five years of appropriate quality primary
education. The following provides an assessment of how far each of the PDOs was achieved.
While it may not be possible to fully attribute the gains made in education in Rajasthan, including
in the nine project districts, entirely to the project, the strong synergies with all other programs,
SSA most notably and others, helped to better achieve the development objectives. In particular,



                                                    9

the main gains in primary education were achieved because of DPEP II's focus on expanding
access and quality to primary education. More details of achievements in each of the components
are described in Annex 2.

PDO 1: Expanding access, retention and enrollments, especially for children in social and
economically disadvantaged groups

The project's biggest achievement has been in increasing access to education. Total enrollment
has increased by 27% for boys and 54% for girls between 2001/02 and 2007/08. The GER has
increased from 95% to just below 120% during the project period. The number of out of school
children has decreased from 208,305 to 22,286, a remarkable achievement. The majority of these
remaining out of school children consist of drop outs (about 70%), and the number of never
enrolled children has significantly come down.

The gender gap has decreased considerably. The Gender Parity Index (GPI) at the beginning of
the project was 13.3, which has now come down to 6.3. However, only two out of nine
districts have achieved below the target 5 percent gap. Reducing the gender gap in
education in Rajasthan remains a major challenge, particularly among the SC
children.

Drop out rates have decreased from 60% to about 27% as per a cohort study carried out by the
state (although the state's EMIS will need to look more carefully at drop outs versus transfers to
private schools to get a true picture of the drop out rate). An emerging new trend is observed in
terms of growing enrolment in private schools even in rural areas. The DISE data of the last two
years shows 20-30% children enrolled in government schools was now going to private schools.
A World Bank study undertaken in 2007 shows a similar picture of about 22% children attending
private schools. The percentage share of private schools in comparison to government schools
increased from 22% to 29% between 2004-05 and 2006-07, whereas the share of enrolment in
schools increased from 26% to 33%. This new phenomenon observed needs to be studied and
analyzed, to allow better planning and information for an evolving strategy to support the full
sector.

While access has improved considerably, retention and regular attendance of students continue to
be challenges to further reducing drop out and improving completion rates. The student
attendance rate at primary level as reported by an MHRD study is around 65%, and
this is an issue in almost all states. Similarly, although drop out rates have
declined, they continue to be at levels which prohibit healthy completion rates. Both
student absenteeism and drop outs are also linked to poor quality of teaching as well
as with the teacher absenteeism. Reaching the remaining out of school children
(and preventing enrolled children from dropping out) requires some innovation and
flexibility. This may include re-visiting established norms of school provisioning for the
hardest to reach communities ­ where the established criteria for teacher recruitment and
provision of school facilities may need to be relaxed so that the last remaining out of school
children can be provided access to primary education.

PDO 2: Improving quality and achievement

The project made good progress in moving towards improvement of quality and student learning.
One key objective was to improve learning achievement scores by at least 25% over the baseline,
and to ensure equity in achievement. Three achievement tests were conducted (Baseline



                                                  10

Assessment Surveys (BAS), Mid Term Assessment Surveys (MAS) and Terminal Assessment
Surveys (TAS)) over the project period to monitor learning of Grade II and Grade V in Language
and Mathematics. Over the course of the project, there was a considerable improvement in
student performance indicators from BAS to TAS, for both math and language. The
improvement has been over 25% for Grade V students and around 20% for Grade II. While this
is an encouraging start, the quality of instruments and analysis using the information will need to
further improve in the future to implement reliable and better quality learning assessments. Other
evidence of student learning, such include the Quality Assurance Program (QAP) was initiated in
2005-06 by the state to test competencies in Math and English in addition to the regular
examinations done by the state. According to another study conducted by the World Bank in
2006 in 200 schools for Grade V in Rajasthan, the average mean math score was 51 whereas the
mean reading score was 53.2 A nationwide learning assessment survey carried out by an NGO,
Pratham (Annual Status of Education Report - ASER) in 2005, 2006, and 2007 show that in
Grades 1-2 in Rajasthan, the share of children who can read alphabets or more increased from
50.8% to 63% to 70% over the three years. However, for Grades 3-5, the proficiency in reading
at level 1 or level 2 for children decreased from 60% to 53%3 then increased to 58% during the
same years. ASER shows that for mathematics, children able to recognize numbers in Grades 1-2
improved from 44% to 64%, and up to 71% during this period. For grades 3-5, the share of
children able to do subtraction declined from 59% in 2005 to 51% in 2007.4 While such evidence
indicates that there has been improvement in levels of learning over time, improving quality still
remains a major challenge.

The project has also focused on improving classroom processes and has been successful in
providing inputs such as teaching/learning material and systems for academic support at the local
level. DPEP II has been successful in providing rich supplementary material including sports
kits, cultural kits, libraries and other facilities to enrich the learning environment. A major
challenge for the future agenda is to further enhance the use of such material and provide stronger
support for teachers. Teacher training programs also will benefit from findings of student
learning and achievement tests, and synergies between pre-service and in-service training along
with stronger continuous support from BRC/CRC for teacher development will bring
improvements in classroom learning environment.

PDO 3: Building capacity to manage primary education at the state, district and local levels.

Institutional capacity building initiated during DPEP I was further strengthened in DPEP II.
Most institutions planned in DPEP II have been established. The state level institutions
such as the SIERT have continued to provide the traditional support in training and in routine
student assessments. The SIERT as well as the newly established SIEMAT are yet to become
truly effective in providing the needed academic and management support to the district and the
below level institutions in their role to improve quality in schools. BRCs and CRCs have been
established as per the target to provide on-site supervision and academic support. While these

2
  Learning Achievements in India: A Study of Primary Education in Rajasthan, Sangeeta Goyal, SASHD, World
Bank, May 2007


3
  Annual Status of Education Report (2007). Pratham, India, January 2008.


4
  It is important to note that these different assessment surveys and reports cannot be strictly compared because of
differences in methodology and target group (ASER includes private sector). However, in light of the variations in
general findings, the state assessment tools can be further reviewed and improved.




                                                            11

institutions are functioning now, most of them are not adequately staffed and resourced to
deliver their responsibilities effectively. They require strengthening to provide the
kind of support that is needed for teachers and improved learning practices.

During DPEP II, the high level of the State Government's overall commitment and emphasis on
decentralization including stakeholder participation were clearly demonstrated by the active
involvement of the State Council of Primary Education, the apex decision-making body. The
State Project Office (SPO), the primary state level implementing agency, despite changes in
leadership and in key positions, maintained efficient oversight of the overall implementation.
This included providing both planning as well as technical support to the BRCs and the below
level. In particular, the monitoring and evaluation functions were streamlined and an operational
EMIS was put in place, though after some delay in start up, and the management is currently able
to report on all key indicators including access and quality (e.g., the Quality Assurance Program).
Throughout the course of implementation of DPEP II, GOR maintained cohesion among the
various parallel programs and projects being implemented in the project districts ­ including that
of the enrollment drives and special interventions such as mid day meal program, health
awareness and check ups, etc. and benefited from each of them to strengthen the program
management which helped in the attainment of objectives of increasing access and improving
quality.

The capacity built at the decentralized level through partnership with the SDMCs which includes
participation of the Panchayat Raj Institutions (PRIs) (local self-government), the parents and
other village elders has provided the desired push in ensuring access to all children to primary
schools in almost all habitations in the nine districts. The establishment of SDMC in every
village, with direct responsibility for overseeing implementation of school civil works and school
facilities grant has been a great leap forward in decentralization. SDMCs have been extremely
effective in overseeing civil works and in school repair and maintenance. Participatory processes
built into the design of the program, through the local level planning and consultation in the
preparation of district plans and their implementation through various decentralized bodies
including the SDMCs have been very effective in achieving the project objectives.

The institutionalization of capacities built in DPEP II and the various outcomes associated with it
within the general education administration of the State however remains a key challenge for the
future. The manpower resource of the educational administration has not kept pace with the
expansion of the school system. Those on the job spent most of their time taking care of routine
program implementation and administrative duties. The job is also hampered by the lack of
computerization of the offices and systems. Further, frequent transfer of State Project Director
led to the disruption of project progress. However, the existence of a good second level of project
management has helped to mitigate these disruptions.


3.3 Efficiency

The economic analysis includes the cost benefit analysis assessing the costs and benefits
generated during the project period. The costs included both the project cost as well as private
costs. The benefits were calculated to include the increase in wages accruing to completion of
primary education. The analysis suggests an Internal Rate of Return of 13%. This is an
underestimate on two counts, one, that wage increase due to quality has not been accounted for
and secondly, the returns from improved social participation, lower fertility, healthier children
and longer term impacts of lower poverty are not quantified.




                                                  12

Improvements in retention and participation rates, and reductions in repeaters leads to higher
levels of internal efficiency reducing costs and improving quality within the education system.

Financial sustainability of the interventions initiated and implemented under the project is
ensured as the state will continue to finance an increasing share of the elementary education
program under SSA. Cost sharing with the central program will increase from 50% to 65%,
gradually to ensure that the pace of implementation does not get negatively impacted.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Objectives:
a) expand access, retention and enrollments;
b) improve quality and achievement;
c) build capacity to manage primary education at the state, district and local levels.

The relevance of all three development objectives was high, and remains high in the context of
the continuing education objectives of Rajasthan. There was substantial efficiency in working
towards achievement of expanding access, retention and enrollments, and in establishing systems
to manage primary education at all levels. Improvement of quality and improvements in student
achievement will take more time and will come about through more focus on making all the
interventions made for quality work better in the classroom. While very good progress was made
in achieving the PDO relating to access, achievement in improving quality of learning and further
institutionalizing of the capacity to manage education requires more attention in the coming
years.

The overall `moderately satisfactory' rating of the project in this ICR Report takes into account
the achievement and in some indicators exceeding of the targets on the access agenda, while still
facing the challenge of retention and regular attendance. The ICRR team makes a strong
assessment, however, that the ratings assigned by the task team during the last two years of the
project, when there were strong concerns about slow implementation progress and risk to
achievement of development objectives, were more austere. It is assessed that these rigorous
ratings reflected the task team's supervision strategy to create impetus for greater attention of all
key stakeholders to improve implementation and to help achieve the development objectives.

Several important elements of quality improvement have been achieved, with schools having
been provided a better learning environment, but there is still a ways to go for improving quality
to meet satisfactory levels. Similarly, on the capacity to manage primary education, good
progress was made in establishing and strengthening institutions at various levels (as discussed),
however much more capacity building is required to ensure that these institutions are effective in
providing the support that is necessary to bring about improvements in student learning.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The 61st round of the National Sample Survey (NSS) data (2004-05) shows that attendance rates
of girls in Rajasthan is 72% which is fast approaching close to that of boys at 78%. However, for
SCs gender gap is about 13 % (SC boys attendance was 76% whereas for SC girls is 63%) and for
STs, the gap is 6% (ST boys attendance is 75% whereas for ST girls it is 69%). While these
numbers reflect improvements on a sample representative at the state level, project data from the
nine districts also shows improvements and closing of the gender gap.


                                                  13

Education for girls has received special focus in policy planning under the 10th five year plan.
National Program for Girls' Education at the Elementary Level (NPEGEL) and Kasturba Gandhi
Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) were two innovative schemes launched under this to reach out to girls
from marginalized social groups. Free text books, free uniform, provision of toilets and
recruitment of female teachers were some efforts intended to increase enrolment and participation
of girls in primary education.

The state implemented some innovative schemes such as non residential bridge courses (NRBCs)
and residential bridge courses (RBCs) to target children in remote and scattered habitations, and
public private arrangements in urban settlements. Many of these children have been
mainstreamed into regular primary and upper primary schools. Alternative madrassa schools that
were operated in the evenings also expanded access for minority Muslim communities. There is
still a need to continue with these programs as the state has witnessed some children dropping out
so from the formal system. An assessment /evaluation of these programs will show where
improvements need to be made so that children remain in the system.

The state has made considerable achievement in including children with special needs. Except in
Bharatpur district, all 8 districts have provided access to 90% of the identified children. In
Bharatpur district alone, 61% of the CWSN are still to be provided aids and appliances. Many
NGOs have come forward and begun work with the government in sharing the responsibility of
providing access to education to these children

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The institutionalization of capacities built in DPEP II and the various outcomes associated with it
within the general education administration of the state remains a key challenge. While very
strong state and district level project management is in place, these will require more
strengthening to ensure the momentum on management and planning of education in the state.
The planning and budgeting process for education is now a routine part of the education
management system, and is reflected in the AWPB process that is an integral part of the system
(also see 2.2 above). However, there is a need to take this process beyond a routine requirement
and use it as a tool for strategic planning and visioning.

One constraining factor has been that the human resource base of the education administration
and its quality has not kept pace with the expansion of the school system. As a result, many on
the job spend most of their time overseeing routine program implementation and administrative
duties, and do not have adequate time for strategic planning and analysis. Lack of adequate
computerization of the offices and systems also further strains the capacity. Further, frequent
transfer of State Project Director (SPD) at times led to the disruption of project progress.
However, the existence of a good second level of project management and the participation by
SDMCs at the local level helped to mitigate these disruptions.

Aside from project management, other state level institutions such as SIERT and SIEMAT
require strengthening to carry out their defined roles effectively and to provide the needed
academic and management support at the decentralized levels for overall improvement of schools
and classroom environment. Similarly, the capacity of the DIETs need to be strengthened in light
of the emphasis on quality education and thus providing the relevant class appropriate training to
teachers and the BRC/CRC coordinators for improved classroom practices.

Needless to emphasize that the continuous professional development of teachers and the
Block/Cluster Resource Coordinators is critical for quality improvements in schools and this is an



                                                  14

area for further attention. As a strategy, effective academic leadership by field level supervisors
is an essential prerequisite for improved teaching-learning processes. It is equally important that
the BRCs and CRCs are constantly engaged with the SDMCs to build awareness in the
community to improve their oversight areas such as school improvement, teacher/student
absenteeism, and student performance which will help to optimize the several efforts being made
by the educational administration.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

The project was successful and made positive progress in achieving its development objectives
because they were focused, and motivated by the needs of the sector and system, but not overly
ambitious. What the project did not intend to do, but ended up doing, was to encourage the state
to take into account all the various interventions and initiatives being implemented that impact or
could impact education outcomes, and promote synergies and convergence. This appears to have
been partially brought about by the implementation of SSA (which did encourage such
convergence) since the SPD for DPEP II and SSA was the same. However, and more
significantly, this appears to be strongest at the implementation level ­ where field staff and
communities see the delivery of education in a holistic manner.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The risk rating is based on the moderate risk factors that exist in the social and institutional
aspects of the operation and its environment. These risks are not likely to pose a threat to the
sustainability of outcomes, and can be managed by acknowledging the areas that require
emphasis in the coming years, especially as the transition of the project to SSA is underway. On
the technical side, many innovations and creative programs were put in place to expand access,
supported by awareness campaigns. Together with the emphasis placed on community
participation through SDMCs and partnerships with NGOs, the expectations of the communities
have increased and it is this very aspect which will put pressure on the education system to
continue delivering. However, capacities of institutions such as SDMCs are fragile, and without
further capacity building and empowerment, they may not remain effective or active participants
in the education process. Further, marginalized communities such as STs, SCs, and other
vulnerable groups remain susceptible to falling out of the schooling net should creative and
innovative programs not continue in Rajasthan under SSA. The need to strengthen the capacities
for local level education planning and management, particularly at the Block and Cluster levels,
remain and pose a moderate risk to sustaining the very good progress in achieving the outcomes
in access and equity, and the reasonably good foundation that has been laid to improve quality
indicators.

Given that the education program in Rajasthan will continue to be financed under SSA, and that
there is strong commitment and ownership at all levels in Government and endorsement of other
stakeholders to continue on the path of education reforms initiated under DPEP, there are
negligible financial, political and economic risk factors.




                                                   15

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance


5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as satisfactory because of several distinct
factors. These include: a) the strong sector analysis and subsequent design of the project's
objectives and components to reflect the sector's requirements in the nine districts; b) building
upon the lessons learnt from DPEP I and other projects being implemented in the country; c)
ensuring synergies with SSA with a medium-term perspective of using the same management
systems, which would later help to ensure smooth post-project transition; d) adequately assessing
and appraising the safeguard and fiduciary issues; e) focusing on capacity development as a key
objective to help achieve the overall goal of improving access to quality education.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Regular supervision of the project has been valuable both in terms of overall project
implementation and ensuring that the progress towards meeting the access, quality and capacity
building objectives were on track. The Bank's performance in supervision can be assessed in two
distinct periods ­ the initial years, and the latter years, especially the last 12 months of the
extension period in which more frequent (quarterly) reviews were negotiated with government.
The more intensive and austere supervision in the last two years focused on providing pragmatic
assessment of progress, and stimulating better implementation progress and achievement of the
development objectives.5 Apart from the formal reviews, the Task Team used every opportunity,
including Bank's multi-sectoral mission to the state, Sector and State Portfolio Review meetings
conducted by the Country Management Unit and the Ministry of Finance to draw attention of the
highest level of state's bureaucracy to key issues in the project. This created pressure on the State
Project Office to improve performance.

The Bank's performance on technical progress, focus on the development impact and outcomes,
and candor and quality of performance reporting has been fully satisfactory. Supervision was
jointly carried out with either the Ministry of Human Resources Development at the national level
or the State Project Office. Feedback gained from the SPO suggested that the Bank has been a
keen partner for ensuring effective implementation. Timely cancellation of some of the credit
amount to reflect a realistic timeframe of activities, partial extension to allow completion of the
planned activities, coupled with intensive yet facilitative supervision resulted in the project
disbursing almost 90% of its planned amount. The Task Team, however, could have worked with
the State Project Office to put in place a plan to utilize the remaining resources to strengthen
some of the innovative programs that were implemented to expand access.




5
  Supervision, as reported and reflected in the ratings made by the project task team during the latter part of the project,
is being assessed by the ICR report team as having been rigorous and more austere (e.g. ratings were downgraded from
Satisfactory to Moderately Satisfactory for the Development Objective in 2006). Based on discussions with key
government counterparts and Bank staff, the ICR report team has made an assessment that the rigorous monitoring and
rating were part of the project task team's supervision strategy to create impetus for more focused attention on
improving implementation (including flagging it to the highest levels in government who then increased their efforts in
supervision) to help achieve the objectives.




                                                            16

On the issue of adequate oversight on financial management and procurement issues, while the
Bank undertook review regularly based on desk reviews of ex post procurement reviews and audit
reports, more field visits by fiduciary staff would have been very beneficial, especially in terms of
making assessment on capacity and shortfalls at the implementation level ­ particularly, since the
bulk of expenditures in the project took place at the village level. Monitoring of fiduciary
processes should be based on careful review and understanding of how expenditures are incurred
at the village (SDMC) and school level, where the bulk of procurement and expenditures takes
place. This way, early detection of issues and capacity gaps can be identified from the grassroots
level rather than ex-post and the fiduciary processes and systems are strengthened. Strong FM
capacities including adequate and competent account staff at all levels and in particular at BRCs
to implement and monitor sound accounting and reporting systems are essential for efficient and
accountable decentralized operation and for effective SDMCs. As a lesson for future operations,
to further strengthen supervision on FM and procurement issues, fiduciary staff should be
encouraged to be part of overall mission meetings (internal and with the client) and discussions
rather than just focus on meeting counterparts in their respective fields. This will enable them to
see the full program perspective and better understand the constraints as well as the operating
environment. However, the ICR team is cognizant that given the environment of the joint review
mission framework, more intensive and ongoing supervision this has been difficult to undertake.
However, the lesson is for both Bank and Government to consider reviewing the enabling
environment for stronger fiduciary monitoring and supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The satisfactory rating for overall Bank performance is based on the regular, close and candid
monitoring undertaken by the task team to supervise the project. On technical issues and
monitoring of progress towards achieving the objectives, the performance was highly satisfactory,
and on fiduciary aspects it was satisfactory. The trust and collaboration between the Bank's team
and the government at various levels ­ MHRD and SPO in particular ­ was strongly evident, and
contributed towards satisfactory implementation of the project and helped Rajasthan move closer
towards achievement of the development objectives.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
Both GOI and GOR demonstrated well their commitment to expand quality primary education to
all sections of the community by implementing various reforms and facilitating capacity building
of state and district level institutions as seen in the realization of project outcomes. The
continuous oversight by MHRD through periodic missions and visits of senior officials including
the GOI Education Secretary and Joint Secretary to Rajasthan was in particular evident in the
initial years which helped to accelerate the pace of implementation. GOR played a strong role in
building synergy and coordination between several related programs at the field level benefiting
the schools. The community level participation at the grassroots was also strongly supported by
GOR to improve the oversight as well as it encouraged NGO participation, particularly to
promote access for the urban slum children. At both the national and state level, the government
ensured an enabling environment based on a stable macro and sectoral policy environment,
provided timely resolution of implementation issues, and ensured setting up of the monitoring and
evaluation arrangements, including the MIS. The government has also ensured smooth transition
arrangements for the education activities supported under the project to continue under SSA.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance


                                                    17

Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, the management of the project has been effective in helping to bring about the
improvements in the key indicators as well as in achieving the project development objectives.
The State Project Office (SPO) has, despite changes in leadership and in key positions,
maintained oversight of the overall implementation, especially during the last two years of the
project. This has included providing both planning as well as technical support to the DPCs,
BRCs and the below level. In particular, the monitoring and evaluation functions have been
streamlined, and the state is now able to report on all key indicators including access and quality
(e.g., the Quality Assurance Program). However, it should be noted that there were significant
delays in setting up of the monitoring system.

Throughout the course of implementation of DPEP II, GOR maintained cohesion among the
various parallel programs and projects being implemented and benefited from each of them to
strengthen the program management which helped in the attainment of objectives of increasing
access and improving quality ­ including that of the enrollment drives and special interventions
such as mid day meal program, health awareness and check ups, etc. Other state level
institutions, such as SIERT and SIEMAT (which has recently been established) require further
strengthening to carry out their respective roles effectively and provide the needed support to
districts in their efforts to improve quality in schools.

The performance of district level management responsible for providing support to the school
system, especially the BRCs and CRCs which ensured that all of the interventions under the
project were implemented effectively was satisfactory. It is impressive that despite the
expansions in enrollment and growth in number of schools (translating into larger workload for
all levels) during the past six years the BRCs/CRCs have been able to ensure that the project's
intended inputs have reached schools ­ civil works, teacher training, Training Learning Materials
(TLM), and SDMC related inputs. However, while BRCs and CRCs are following up on
provision of inputs to schools, the SPO needs to increase focus on their role of capacity building.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall satisfactory rating is based on the high level of commitment and keen oversight
provided during all stages of the project, in particular during supervision. Further, the role played
by MHRD and the GOR to ensure coordination of the project with other key initiatives in the
education sector and to undertake special supervision to stimulate implementation progress is
highly commended. The performance at the implementation level was adequate and improved
significantly during the last year of the project.


6. Lessons Learned
The experience of Rajasthan DPEP II provides important lessons for improving the elementary
education system and for achieving education development objectives not only in Rajasthan, but
also for other states. It also offers valuable insights that can inform the implementation of SSA.

a. Ownership of and commitment to the program at all levels is crucial to the development of
     primary education and the success of project implementation and realization of outcomes.
b. It is extremely challenging to expand access to the remaining out of school children, who are
     from among the hardest to reach marginalized groups, and require innovative interventions
     such as those piloted and implemented under DPEP, including the public private partnership
     initiatives.




                                                   18

c. Gains in enrollment increases can be diluted unless there is an intensive effort to ensure
    regular student and teacher attendance, as irregular student attendance impacts quality and
    defeats the enrollment gains.
d. A strong and credible monitoring system is an essential requirement to allow for effective
    planning and targeting of programs if necessary. Such a system is best derived from internal
    monitoring systems and field monitoring, and supported by external validations and
    evaluation studies.
e. Improvement in student learning requires all key quality ingredients ­ such as TLM,
    improved school environment, strong community participation and ownership, trained
    teachers. Once these are in place, adequate support system needs to be put in place to ensure
    ongoing support to teachers for improving the classroom learning environment.
f.  Monitoring of FM and procurement processes should be based on careful review and
    understanding of how expenditures are incurred at the village (SDMC) and school level,
    where the bulk of procurement and expenditures takes place. This way, early detection of
    issues and capacity gaps can be made at the grassroots level rather than ex-post to enable the
    fiduciary processes and systems to be strengthened. Under the environment of supervision
    and joint review mission framework, this has been difficult to undertake. However, the
    lesson is for both Bank and Government to consider reviewing the enabling environment for
    stronger fiduciary monitoring and supervision.
g. Successful implementation and sustainability is largely dependent on capacity in the system
    and in the implementing agency. Continuity of staff and adequate staffing of key institutions
    (such as on the quality side and monitoring) need to be in place to ensure effectiveness of
    such programs.
h. The parallel structure of project administration needs to be integrated with the elementary
    education department for efficiency. However, there is a clear lesson to be learnt that the
    mainstream education system may take time to improve and focus gradually more on quality
    support beyond administrative functions, and in the meantime having a strong project office
    and system all the way down to the cluster level has helped to prevent a generation of
    students from being left behind


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower has provided its own Implementation Completion & Results Report evaluating the
project. The Borrower's ICR report (Annex 5) presents a similar assessment as this ICR on the
development objectives and factors affecting implementation performance. Some of the key
issues relating to lessons learned that are highlighted in the Borrower's report include:

    ·   More time should be built in to the project, both before and after credit effectiveness, to
        undertake further project preparation and planning. This intensive preparation work
        could include workshops with stakeholders at various levels to explain project objectives,
        expectations, especially to bring consensus around the targets and achievements.
    ·   Government should ensure continuity of project staff, especially project director, as
        frequent changes impede progress.
    ·   Targets should be based on realistic assessment of ground realities, and there should be
        flexibility in Bank and Borrower teams to respond to challenges.
    ·   For making schools more effective, SDMCs need to be strengthened. The suggestion is
        for Government to consider giving statutory status to SDMCs.
    ·   Promotion of public private partnership initiatives should be an integral part of programs
        such as DPEP, as promoting equitable access especially in difficult areas requires
        innovative approaches.



                                                  19

(b) Cofinanciers
There were no other direct co-financiers in the project.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
During a roundtable discussion with a group of civil society organizations6, several positive and
constructive issues were raised. Feedback from NGOs suggests that the project has led to a major
change in mindset of the government to partner actively with civil society for promotion of the
state's education objectives. The Rajasthan Education Initiative (REI) is the main outcome of
this shift in government policy, which as an umbrella mechanism for innovate partnership
programs has enabled greater participation of NGOs and civil society. NGOs, however,
highlighted areas where much more work is needed. These include bringing further
improvements in learning achievements, improving teacher training to make teaching practices
more effective, strengthening the role of SDMCs (through more capacity building in partnership
with local organizations), and continuing with alternative and innovate interventions to reach and
retain children from marginalized and difficult to reach communities. . These are valid concerns
that the government also recognizes as priority, and it will be important for the state to continue
partnering with NGOs to achieve improvements in these areas.




6
 Held during the ICR Report Mission on May 7, 2008 in Jaipur. Participants included members of the REI, such as
Pratham, Bodh, Umang and other NGOs working in the education sector in Rajasthan:




                                                      20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                 (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                       millions)
EXPANDING ACCESS,
RETENTION AND                          38.40              33.40              87
ENROLLMENTS
IMPROVING QUALITY AND
                                       28.20              23.20              82
ACHIEVEMENT
BUILDING INSTITUTIONAL
AND MANAGEMENT                         20.90              17.80              85
CAPACITY



            Total Baseline Cost        87.50               74.40             85

Physical Contingencies
                                         0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies
                                         0.00               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs         0.00              74.40
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            .00
     Total Financing Required            0.00              74.40




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        13.10        13.10        100
International Development
                                                87.50        74.40        85
Association (IDA)




                                          21

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

PDO 1: Expanding access, retention and enrollments, especially for children in social and
economically disadvantaged groups

Targeted interventions and innovations: The improvements in access were brought about by
implementing a range of interventions, including providing a primary school within 1 km, which
has been achieved in the state of Rajasthan. Further, enrollment rates have increased on account
of opening Education Guarantee Scheme (EGS) centers, Alternative Schools, Shiksha Mitra
Kendras and initializing Residential Bridge Courses (RBCs) and Non Residential Bridge Courses
(NRBCs), particularly in the remote habitations. The state initiated Rajiv Gandhi Shiksha
Pathshalas (RGSP) schools under the Education Guarantee Scheme of the government to reach
the marginalized groups which were later converted into regular primary schools. Many of the
children from these programs have been mainstreamed into regular schools.

Innovative approaches, including bridge courses (both residential and non-residential) and
alternative schools proved to be an effective strategy for extending education opportunities to
disadvantaged and marginalized communities. Innovations in the overall education program were
well-dovetailed with DPEP II's objectives to ensure that these various interventions converge at
the school level ­ e.g. Lingua Labs to enhance language teaching abilities, Mobile Computer
Labs, health check ups for all children, provision of incentives to parents for girls completing
Grade VIII (i.e., support for cycle purchase, cash incentives on completion of Grade VIII), and
promotion of mothers' involvement.

Other targeted interventions included identifying Children With Special Needs and enrolling
them in regular schools along with providing required specialized aids (out of 192,323 CWSN
identified, 174,258 were enrolled in schools). Other notable innovations included focus on urban
slums, which is a growing challenge for the State of Rajasthan, through PPP approach such as the
Rajasthan Education Initiative under which 27 MOUs were signed with NGOs and private sector
to support elementary education in hard to reach communities.

Teacher recruitment: Large scale teacher recruitment including placement of para-teachers
where necessary under DPEP II supported reducing the number of single-teacher schools and
filling the vacant posts. The number of single-school teacher schools in the nine project districts
has gone down from 38.6 percent in 2003 (at the time of the Mid Term Review), to 18 percent in
2007 (compared to almost 42 percent for all of Rajasthan). Another key objective of the project
was to reduce the pupil teacher ratio (PTR) by appointing additional regular and para-teachers,
both under the project and as part of state's overall education strategy. The PTR in the nine
districts in 2001/02 was around 48.5, which has declined to 34 in 2007/08. The state and the
project district average, in general is below the national average of 1:40. However,
the low PTR is not the same across schools. The state therefore needs to rationalize the teacher
deployment to make available the desired number of teachers in every school to ensure quality
education. Majority of stand alone primary schools are still single-teacher (or 2 teachers) schools
and enrollments continue to rise.

Community mobilization and awareness building: SDMCs have been established in every village
(11,956 in the nine districts), with direct responsibility for overseeing implementation of school
civil works and school facilities grant. There is strong Government commitment for transferring
more decision-making powers to the community. This is evidenced by the recent moves to give


                                                  22

SDMCs the authority to approve teacher leave applications and to reconstitute SDMCs to have a
parent chairing the committee rather than the head teacher. Additionally, the Government of
Rajasthan is considering to gradually assign greater responsibility to the community, including
giving powers to the PRI to recruit and transfer teachers. SDMCs have been extremely effective
in overseeing civil works and play a role in its maintenance. However, to enable SDMCs to play
a greater role in ensuring that teachers attend school regularly, TLM is effectively used,
monitoring of classroom practices improved, communities and parents mobilized the Rajasthan
Government could consider engaging NGOs to build awareness and motivation which could
gradually ease the burden on CRCs to allow them to focus on teacher and classroom support.

Construction and rehabilitation of schools and classroom: One of the most impressive aspects of
the project has been closing the gap on missing infrastructure in schools. While there are still
needs, majority of schools have been provided additional classrooms on need basis (although a
gap still remains to be filled, which will be covered under SSA), toilet blocks and even kitchens
for the Mid Day Meal Program. SDMC involvement and ownership of the civil works
component, evidenced by general oversight, ranging from procurement to works supervision,
greatly facilitated steady progress in implementation of civil works, and helped to reduce the gaps
in infrastructure. A third party evaluation of the civil works program found the quality of civil
works to be good in more than 90% of the sample from across the State, and even found
community construction to be better in quality and more cost effective than contractor-based
construction.

Learning Assessments: A key objective of the DPEP II was to improve learning achievement
scores by at least 25% over the baseline, and to ensure equity in achievement. Three achievement
tests were conducted (BAS, MAS and TAS) over the project period to monitor learning of Grade
II and Grade V in Language and Mathematics. Over the course of the project, there was a
considerable improvement in student performance indicators from BAS to TAS, for both math
and language. The improvement has been over 25% for Class V students and around 20% for
Class II.

                                     Grade II                         Grade V
                           Math             Language      Math             Language
BAS                        68.9             66            40               52
Range among                49.5-77          56-82         31-47            43-60
Districts
MAS                        78.2             75            56               65
Range among                71-84            64-85         47-59            57-79
Districts
TAS                        83.1             78            58               67
Range among                78-89            67-88         52-73            62-80
Districts

Building upon these achievement tests, a Quality Assurance Program (QAP) was initiated in
2005-06 by the state to test competencies in Math and English. Tests were again conducted in
2006-07 to see the incremental differences in student performance. These tests are in addition to
the regular examinations done by the state. The state now needs to collate and compare
information from the TAS and QAP tests to see if these provide enough evidence on learning
improvements and to validate the relevance of parallel assessments. While such regular tests to
assess student learning are necessary, the merit of conducting a number of tests every year should
be examined by the state. It should be done in such a way that provides good quality information



                                                  23

on learning gaps, without overstretching the teachers, students and the system. According to
another study conducted by the World Bank in 2006 in 200 schools for Grade V in Rajasthan, the
average mean math score was 51 whereas the mean reading score was 53.7

Improving quality of classroom processes and enhancing learning achievement in primary
education: This is the major challenge for the future agenda. While all the key ingredients for
quality support are in place (from learning materials to academic support by BRC/CRC, SDMCs
oversight, quality monitoring instruments such as achievement and assessment tools), however
focused capacity building for stronger ongoing mentoring and classroom based support is
required. The state will also need to revisit teacher training to strengthen and align it to address
the findings of student learning and achievement tests. Both pre-service and in-service training
also have to be synergized to meet the emerging concern for quality. The state, under the project,
has set up a good foundation for improving quality. For example, the SPO is producing report
cards for each level ­ schools, clusters, districts and the state level ­ through which it is possible
to identify hard spots in learning. However, studies assessing the effectiveness of training
provided and its impact are lacking. Deeper analysis and use of findings will only further help
target the training where it is most needed, and identify areas for specialized interventions.

Continuous support for teacher development: District Institutes for Education and Training
(DIETs) are working under SIERT in all nine districts and would continue to provide the usual
periodic teacher training. These district level institutions have been improving training
methodologies and content by using action-research and case studies. In the recent convergence
in training activities between the DIETs and the national SSA program, the DIETs are being
strengthened with additional manpower and in some selected DIETs facilities like computer and
language labs have been provided. However with the ongoing emphasis on improving the quality
of teaching and learning, the DIETS would require to reengineer their programs to address this
emerging concern, including using information on hard spots and gaps available from the Quality
Assurance Program (QAP) achievement tests. While there has been good progress in setting up
the systems for continuous support for teachers, the big challenge lies in ensuring that the changes
result in visible improvements in teaching practices and behaviors coupled with changes in the
classroom learning environment.

BRCs and CRCs have been established as per the target to provide on-site supervision and
academic support. However, staffing in the BRCs and CRCs as well as in DIETs continues to
remain problematic and the selection of appropriate personnel for these units is crucial. BRCs
and CRCs form a vital link in providing the valuable academic support to teachers for improved
classroom practices. In this effort, the performance of BRCs and CRCs have been less than
adequate as they continued to spend more time on administrative work than in their expected role,
and that some CRCs oversee more than 30 schools as against the norm of about 15 to 20. Given
the distances and the high number of schools to be supervised, the visits made to the schools by
the CRCCs were often limited to less than once a month. The project would have benefited from
greater technical support from the national and state level to emphasize capacity building and
professional development of the Block and Cluster Resource Coordinators. This is critical for
quality improvements in schools, and this is an area for future focus. Effective academic
leadership by field level supervisors is an essential prerequisite for teaching-learning
improvements. At the same time, the need for the BRCs and CRCs to be constantly engaged with
the SDMCs to build awareness in the community to improve their oversight in the areas of school

7
 Learning Achievements in India: A Study of Primary Education in Rajasthan, Sangeeta Goyal, SASHD, World
Bank, May 2007




                                                     24

improvement, teacher/student absenteeism, and student performance will help to optimize the
several efforts being made by the educational administration.

Instructional materials and availability of TLM/Libraries/Others: One key factor in attracting
students and keeping them in school is a vibrant classroom which is based on availability of child
friendly learning material and its use in teaching. DPEP II has been successful in ensuring the
provision of Teaching/ Learning Material to each school. Additionally, other supplementary
material such as sports kits, cultural kits and computer facilities are also being provided. The
TLM Grant for every teacher is an important part of the education system in the state, as it
enables the schools to update and enhance their material annually. Further, the TLM grant per
child enrolled provided to the SDMC has also been an essential input to ensure better availability
of learning material at the school level. As a result, TLM is available in almost every classroom.
However, the use of TLM and library books needs to be improved, as many teachers are still not
using TLM effectively. While training for use of TLM and guidelines for use is provided to each
teacher, emphasis on follow up by CRC in terms of continuous teacher mentoring and on-site
support will lead to better classroom practices, and ultimately contribute towards improved
student learning.

PDO 3: Building capacity to manage primary education at the state, district and local levels.

Institutional Capacity: Institutional capacity building started during DPEP I was further
strengthened in DPEP II. Most institutions planned in DPEP II have been established.
However, almost all district and sub-district level institutions are not adequately
staffed and resourced to deliver their responsibilities. Besides, the performance of
these institutions needs constant monitoring and their staff would be required to
undergo continuous professional development.

During DPEP II, the high level of the State Government's overall commitment and emphasis on
decentralization including stakeholder participation were clearly demonstrated by the active
involvement of the State Council of Primary Education, the apex decision-making body. The
State Project Office (SPO), the primary state level implementing agency, despite changes in
leadership and in key positions, maintained efficient oversight of the overall implementation.
This included providing both planning as well as technical support to the DPCs, BRCs and the
below level. In particular, the monitoring and evaluation functions were streamlined and an
operational EMIS was put in place, though after some delay in start up, and the management is
currently able to report on all key indicators including access and quality (e.g., the Quality
Assurance Program). Throughout the course of implementation of DPEP II, GOR maintained
cohesion among the various parallel programs and projects being implemented in the project
districts ­ including that of the enrollment drives and special interventions such as mid day meal
program, health awareness and check ups, etc. and benefited from each of them to strengthen the
program management which helped in the attainment of objectives of increasing access and
improving quality.

The state level institutions such as the SIERT have continued to provide the traditional support in
training and in routine student assessments. The SIERT as well as the newly established
SIEMAT are yet to become truly effective in providing the needed academic and management
support to the district and the below level institutions in their role to improve quality in schools.

BRCs and CRCs have been established as per the target to provide on-site supervision and
academic support. However, staffing in the BRCs and CRCs as well as in DIETs continues to



                                                  25

remain problematic and the selection of appropriate personnel for these units is crucial. BRCs
and CRCs form a vital link in providing the valuable academic support to teachers for improved
classroom practices. In this effort, the performance of BRCs and CRCs have been less than
adequate as they continued to spend more time on administrative work than in their expected role,
and that some CRCs oversee more than 30 schools as against the norm of about 15 to 20. In the
forward looking agenda, the State plans to carry out a performance assessment of BRCs and
CRCs. This would help to develop greater role clarity as well as to design appropriate capacity
building activities suiting the roles that these institutions are expected to perform under the new
paradigm, i.e., the emphasis on student learning

The capacity built at the decentralized level through partnership with the SDMCs which includes
the PRIs, the parents and other village elders has provided the desired push in ensuring access to
all children to primary schools in almost all habitations in the nine districts. As discussed in PDO
1 description above, the establishment of SDMC in every village, with direct responsibility for
overseeing implementation of school civil works and school facilities grant has been a great leap
forward in decentralization. SDMCs have been extremely effective in overseeing civil works and
in school repair and maintenance. There are examples of the local communities supporting
residential bridge courses and also contributing towards additional civil works in the schools. In
its effort to empowering the community, the GOR is continually considering transfering more and
more decision-making powers to the community, e.g., the recent move to give SDMCs the
authority to approve teacher leave applications and to reconstitute SDMCs to have a parent
chairing the committee rather than the head teacher. The GOR is also considering gradually
enhancing responsibility of the community, including giving powers to the Panchayat Raj
Institutions (PRI) to recruit and transfer teachers.

Participatory processes built into the design of the program, through the local level planning and
consultation in the preparation of district plans and their implementation through various
decentralized bodies including the SDMCs have been very effective in achieving the project
objectives.

Through coordination with other programs and departments (e.g. SSA, Integrated Child
Development Services (ICDS), PRI, Total Sanitation Campaign and Swajaldhara, Mid Day Meal
Program) ­ and particularly in the areas of infrastructure planning and implementation and the
provision of water and sanitation in schools ­the DPEP II helped to improve the school
environment as well as the student enrollment and retention. Convergence at the district and
below levels with the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) and the public health system
(PHS) is very noticeable. The Anganwadi workers of ICDS assist with early childhood
education, and the PHS Auxiliary Nurse Mid-wife (ANM) conducts children's health check up.
Discussions with teachers, SDMC members show that there is concern regarding children's
health affecting attendance and learning, and the community and school community puts effort
into mobilizing such resources to improve the situation.

A major contributing factor to the success of the project was the high level of the State
Government's commitment and emphasis on decentralization and stakeholder participation. The
ownership of the State Government was clearly reflected through the participation at the highest
level ­the State Council of Primary Education. Decentralized educational management and
oversight through partnership with the SDMC which includes the PRIs (local self-government),
the parents and other village elders provided the desired push in ensuring access to all children to
primary schools in almost all habitations in the nine districts. The participation of various
stakeholders in planning, implementation and supervision enabled the project to a very great
extent to achieve the objective of enrolling every child in school. Participatory processes built



                                                   26

into the design of the program, through the local level planning and consultation in the
preparation of district plans and their implementation through various decentralized bodies
including the SDMCs have been very useful in achieving the project objectives.

The institutionalization of capacities built in DPEP II and the various outcomes associated with it
within the general education administration of the State however remains a key challenge for the
future. The manpower resource of the educational administration has not kept pace with the
expansion of the school system. Those on the job spent most of their time taking care of routine
program implementation and administrative duties. The job is also hampered by the lack of
computerization of the offices and systems. Further, frequent transfer of State Project Director
led to the disruption of project progress. However, the existence of a good second level of project
management has helped to mitigate these disruptions.

Table 1: Pupil Teacher Ratio (PS) in DPEP districts
                                                            Pupil Teacher Ratio
 S.N.          DISTRICTS                         2001-02                         2007-08
    1   Bharatpur                                  43                              34
    2   Bundi                                      52                              30
    3   Churu                                      36                              33
    4   Dausa                                      43                              35
    5   Dhaulpur                                   58                              42
    6   Hanumangarh                                51                              32
    7   Jaipur                                     52                              35
    8   Karauli                                    51                              36
    9   S. Madhopur                                50                              31



Table 2: Gross Enrollment Rations in DPEP districts 2003/04 to 2007/08
 S.N.   GERs                         2003-04       2004-05      2005-06      2006-07     2007-08
    1   Bharatpur                         102.5         103.4         124.3       126.7       119.4
    2   Bundi                              95.2          94.0         118.6       112.2       106.3
    3   Churu                             103.3          91.6         103.4       122.4       122.9
    4   Dausa                             111.2         113.6         131.1       124.3       119.3
    5   Dhaulpur                           68.9         114.0         142.3       105.2       106.8
    6   Hanumangarh                        93.3          95.9         101.4       120.8       118.9
    7   Jaipur                             71.9          68.0          82.4       124.3       119.1
    8   Karauli                            59.5          64.9         116.8       131.8       122.8
    9   S. Madhopur                        54.7         100.5         112.9       118.6       117.9
        Average                            84.5          94.0         114.8       120.7       117.0




                                                   27

Table 3: Gross Enrollment Rations in non-DPEP districts 2003/04 to 2007/08

S.N.    GERs                       2003-04      2004-05         2005-06      2006-07     2007-08
1       Ajmer                              65.3          87.2          99.6       110.6       107.9
2       Alwar                              47.2          67.7         112.0       127.3       123.1
3       Banswara                           37.9         113.3         141.5       115.5       108.1
4       Baran                             119.6          31.4         127.4       110.8       107.2
5       Barmer                            128.9          73.5         150.4       112.5       103.4
6       Bhilwara                           95.1         101.2         101.1       105.6       105.7
7       Bikaner                            61.4          99.0         125.9       122.5       110.5
8       Chittaurgarh                       92.0         151.3          95.2       118.5       131.2
9       Dungarpur                          29.0          38.0         132.9       116.2       114.8
10      Ganganagat                         80.4          32.5          85.8       111.8       113.0
11      Jaisalmer                          79.1          92.2         148.1       113.2       110.3
12      Jalore                            118.3         113.4         135.8       114.4       107.6
13      Jhalawar                           95.7         103.7         119.3       108.0       105.7
14      Jhunjhunu                         100.4          88.7         100.1       139.0       129.7
15      Jodhpur                            87.0          88.9         113.1       127.7       116.9
16      Kota                               61.8          70.6          98.3       121.1       113.1
17      Nagaur                             99.5         101.0         122.6       119.7       123.6
18      Pali                               73.7         104.1         122.0       121.9       113.1
19      Rajsamand                          88.4          86.7         118.9       110.9       108.9
20      Sikar                              99.6          93.5         122.8       123.7       129.2
21      Sirohi                             98.4         102.3         120.9       108.9       110.8
22      Tonk                               86.7          95.0         103.4       118.7       108.5
23      Udaipur                            96.3          90.8         104.9       116.7       108.9

        Average                            84.4          88.1         117.5       117.2       113.5
Source: DISE Report of 2005/06



Table 4: Grade II Language Assessment Study in DPEP districts
S.N.    District           Terminal Assessment        Mid-term Assessment      Baseline Assessment
                                    Study                 Study /RAS*                 Study
                           Boys      Girls  Both      Boys    Girls     Both   Boys   Girls   Both

    1   Bharatpur          89.18     88.18  88.68     85.82     85.4    85.62  83.45  81.35   82.50

    2   Bundi              74.73     79.65  77.29     67.61   78.14     73.05  57.70  55.10   56.60

    3   Churu*             81.69     81.97  81.85     78.33   79.97     79.09  69.60  66.40   68.15

    4   Dholpur            80.01     79.48  79.79     77.62   77.43     77.53  68.85  69.90   69.30

    5   Dausa              79.21     78.94  79.08     78.99   76.13     77.46  53.80  44.15   49.70

    6   Hanumangarh        66.93     67.91  67.45     63.69   64.85     64.30  56.65  57.55   57.10

    7   Jaipur*            84.06     79.80  81.65     79.89   76.43     78.10  75.20  75.50   75.35

    8   Karoli             77.69     77.27  77.47     77.64   74.11     75.82  69.05  64.55   67.20

    9   S.Madhopur*        71.07     69.45  70.18     69.82   68.26     69.04  68.35  69.35   68.75

* We do not know what * refers to




                                                 28

Table 5: Grade II Math Assessment Study in DPEP districts
S.N.    District           Terminal Assessment       Mid-term Assessment  Baseline Assessment
                                  Study                  Study /RAS*            Study
                           Boys    Girls    Both     Boys   Girls   Both  Boys   Girls   Both

    1   Bharatpur          87.12   85.36    86.25    81.74   78.50  80.15 77.15  77.15   77.15

    2   Bundi              80.61   83.01    81.86    73.68   78.02  75.92 66.40  59.35   63.45

    3   Churu*             81.86   82.01    81.94    81.22   81.63  81.39 76.70  72.35   74.75

    4   Dholpur            87.67   89.02    88.23    82.70   84.75  83.63 77.40  74.30   76.15

    5   Dausa              88.66   89.17    88.91    84.07   84.69  84.40 54.15  42.95   49.45

    6   Hanumangarh        81.06   81.55    81.32    76.30   72.21  74.14 68.50  65.20   66.75

    7   Jaipur*            82.11   81.12    81.55    79.35   78.95  79.14 76.70  75.05   75.90

    8   Karoli             80.31   79.28    79.77    76.22   74.44  75.30 66.45  61.45   64.40

    9   S.Madhopur*        79.76   76.18    77.79    72.65   70.93  71.79 72.25  71.50   71.95



Table 6: Grade V Language Assessment Study in DPEP districts
S.N.    District           Terminal Assessment       Mid-term Assessment  Baseline Assessment
                                  Study                  Study /RAS*            Study
                           Boys    Girls    Both     Boys   Girls   Both  Boys   Girls   Both

    1   Bharatpur          67.22   63.63    65.47    64.07   63.47  63.77 56.34  57.17   56.69

    2   Bundi              67.20   67.85    67.55    67.11   66.17  66.74 49.11  51.01   49.89

    3   Churu*             80.94   80.60    80.75    80.32   79.34  79.98 50.76  50.97   50.84

    4   Dholpur            61.83   62.19    61.97    61.67   59.11  60.49 51.77  51.47   51.69

    5   Dausa              69.44   68.85    69.14    68.71   66.63  67.75 45.89  39.39   43.39

    6   Hanumangarh        64.06   63.98    64.02    58.53   56.95  57.64 46.74  44.59   45.70

    7   Jaipur*            70.33   71.01    70.71    68.65   69.61  69.17 61.49  59.20   60.47

    8   Karoli             62.86   61.63    62.26    59.77   60.59  60.14 55.00  54.90   54.96

    9   S.Madhopur*        64.65   63.77    64.18    62.08   62.32  62.20 54.86  53.93   54.53



Table 7: Grade V Mathematics Assessment Study in DPEP districts
S.N.     District          Terminal Assessment       Mid-term Assessment  Baseline Assessment
                                   Study                 Study /RAS*            Study
                           Boys     Girls   Both     Boys    Girls  Both  Boys   Girls   Both

    1    Bharatpur         57.23    55.67   56.47    54.56   54.91  54.73 47.75  45.80   46.95

    2    Bundi             59.26    60.11   59.71    58.02   58.63  58.26 38.43  38.48   38.45

    3    Churu*            73.34    73.27   73.30    72.78   72.22  72.71 38.08  36.25   37.38

    4    Dholpur           52.73    54.17   53.30    51.53   47.52  49.68 39.45  38.80   39.28

    5    Dausa             63.19    61.58   62.37    59.89   59.96  59.92 32.13  29.30   31.05

    6    Hanumangarh       52.83    51.63   52.15    49.44   45.75  47.35 35.58  34.58   35.10

    7    Jaipur*           59.25    60.70   60.05    58.48   59.78  59.17 51.35  48.98   50.30

    8    Karoli            56.49    56.26   56.38    55.82   55.00  55.45 43.05  40.93   42.28

    9    S.Madhopur*       55.48    51.23   53.23    53.43   49.38  51.55 45.95  42.88   44.85




                                                29

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis

Project Investment Cost

The total project cost of Rajasthan DPEP II was USD 87.5million. At the start of the project in
2001-02 in the 9 districts covered by the project, there were 2.7 million children enrolled in
primary grades. The project enrolled 0.62 m additional children during its life. The per-student
expenditure of the project was USD 26.35, or about USD 4.39 per child per year.

Cost benefit Analysis

Rajasthan DPEP II can be expected to yield substantial economic benefits. It has increased
school enrolments and the rate of primary school completion in the state. As a result, more of the
labor force in Rajasthan will at least have a primary school education.

The benefits of the project were taken to be an increase in the wages of children who complete
primary education compared to the counterfactual.

Under fairly modest assumptions regarding the net benefits from the project, the internal rate of
return is 13% which is higher than the opportunity costs of resources in an alternative use. (The
physical rate of return is approximately 12%).

The other assumptions and data used in the cost benefit analysis are the following:

    1. The discounted benefit stream over the working life time of primary school completer
        was compared with the total project and private cost.
    2. The private costs are estimated using data from NSS 52nd round, 1995-96. These costs
        are Rs. 622 per year for primary school students in 1995-96 rupees. These have been
        converted to 2003 rupees for the present cost benefit analysis.
    3. Private costs include only the costs of schooling
    4. It is assumed that the benefits accrue to completed levels of schooling and not completed
        years of schooling.
    5. Data from the 61st round of NSS have been used to estimate age earnings profile of
        primary school completers and illiterates.
    6. It is assumed that there is an increase in wage by 1% annually due to improvement in
        quality of education.

The IRR of 13% is a conservative one because it does not take into account the increase in wages
due to longevity of children in the school system beyond the primary stage if they successfully
complete it. There would be likely increase in the supply of workers with secondary and higher
education. There may be less tangible but equally important economic benefits arising from an
educated, more capable and reliable labor force such as lower absenteeism and increased
innovations in individual tasks. In addition, the benefits from the project are likely to accrue
beyond the project period. The infrastructure and capacities developed under the project will
benefit generations of students who will come after the direct beneficiaries of the project have
passed out. If one takes further into account the social returns due to positive externalities in
health, fertility and economic growth, then better educated cohorts of children are likely to be
healthier themselves and have fewer and healthier children in the future. Overall, better educated
and healthier children become educated, healthy and more productive work force for the country.



                                                 30

Financial Analysis

Financial sustainability of the interventions initiated and implemented under the project is
ensured as the state will continue to finance an increasing share of the elementary education
program under SSA. Cost sharing with the central program will increase from 50% to 65%,
gradually to ensure that the pace of implementation does not get negatively impacted.




                                                  31

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
           Names                            Title             Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Susan E. Hirshberg     Sr. Education Specialist           SASHD Co-Task Team Leader
N. K. Jangira          Sr. Education Specialist           SASED Co-Task Team Leader
Edward Heneveld        Lead Education Specialist          SASED
James Keith Hinchliffe Lead Economist                     SASED
Venita Kaul            Sr. Education Specialist           SASHD
Meera Chatterji        Social Development Specialist
Christophe Bosch       Environment Specialist
Rajat Narula           Sr Financial Management Specialist SARFM
Santhanam Krishnan     Sr Procurement Specialist          SARPF
Vandana Sipahimalani Education Economist                  SASED
Sudesh Ponnappa        Program Assistant                  SASED
Gertrude Cooper       Program Assistant                   SASED
Anjali Manglik
John Middleton         Sr. Environmental Specialist       CESI1 Peer Reviewer
Elizabeth M. King      Research Manager                  DECRG Peer Reviewer
Robert S. Prouty       Lead Education Specialist         HDNED Peer Reviewer


Supervision/ICR
Nalin Jena            Operations Officer                  SASHD Task Team Leader
Sushil Kumar Bahl     Sr Procurement Spec.                SARPS
Samuel C. Carlson     Lead Specialist                     SASHD
Meera Chatterjee      Senior Social Development Spec      SASDS
Prema Clarke          Sr Education Spec.                  SASHD
Savita Dhingra        Team Assistant                      SASHD
Priya Goel            Sr Financial Management Specialist SARFM
Venita Kaul           Sr Education Spec.                  SASHD
Manvinder Mamak       Sr Financial Management Specialist SARFM
Arun Manuja           Financial Management Specialist    SARFM
Tapas Paul            Sr Environmental Spec.              SASDN
Kin Bing Wu           Lead Education Specialist           EASHD
Sofia Shakil          Sr. Education Specialist            SASHD ICRR TTL
                                                                ICR Procurement
Asha Bhagat           ET Consultant                      SARFM
                                                                Specialist
                                                                ICRR
Nina Badgaiyan        Consultant                          SASHD
                                                                Economist/Analyst
                                                                ICR Institutional
Parimal Bardhan       Consultant                          SASHD
                                                                Development Specialist




                                             32

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including
                                No. of staff weeks
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                            3.62
  FY00                                 26                        33.60
  FY01                                 36                       131.90
  FY02                                                            0.29
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                            0.00


                        Total:         62                       169.41
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                            0.00
  FY00                                                            0.00
  FY01                                                            0.00
  FY02                                   8                       41.26
  FY03                                 10                        43.57
  FY04                                 20                        34.91
  FY05                                 32                        37.12
  FY06                                 24                        34.55
  FY07                                 12                        14.50
  FY08                                 14                        20.31


                        Total:        120                       226.22




                                    33

Annex 5. Borrower's ICR




    Rajasthan Council of Elementary Education




                        Implementation Completion Report

             INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
                                  (Cr No 3529IN)




      II & III Floor, Block 5, Shiksha Sankul, JLN Marg, Jaipur (Rajasthan)
Phone No. 0141-2703544                                    Fax No. 0141-5127388




                                        34

1.0 Introductory

1.1 Importance of DPEP II for Rajasthan
         Rajasthan is a State with many challenges. With 10.40% of the area of the country,
Rajasthan is the biggest state of the country. However, it maintains 5.40 % of the human and
18.10% of live -stock population of the country with limited availability of 1.16% of surface and
1.70% of ground water resources. The problem becomes aggravated because agriculture is the
mainstay of economy of the state with 60% of the area forming part of arid or semiarid zone and
low and erratic rainfall. Feudal legacy added to the inhospitable environment for educational
development. According to the Administration Report of Rajputna, as Rajasthan was called
before independence, for the year 1865-66, "question of education is not one which has received
much or sufficient attention from Rajputna Chiefs. Rajputna is conservative in extreme. Apathy,
indifference or poverty all caused for the absence of education, while too often it was due to
disinclination to expenditure." First girls' school in the state was established at Udaipur as late as
1866. This left Rajasthan an educationally backward State borne out by the fact that literacy rate
according 1951 Census was 8.95; for males, 14.14 and females only 3.00; corresponding figures
for India were 16.75; 24.95 and 7.93 respectively. Due to the efforts made by the State in the
post independence period, there has come a sea change in the situation still the status of female
literacy continues to be a matter of concern.
         Article 45 of the Constitution of the Indian Republic shows the concern of the Founding
Fathers of the constitution for the need of free and compulsory education for the children up to 14
years. The National Policy of Education (NPE) 1986 as updated in 1992 and the Program of
Action, 1992 reaffirm the national commitment in the form of Universal Elementary Education.
Precisely Para 5.12 of NPE resolves that free and compulsory education of satisfactory quality
should be provided to all children up to 14 years of age before entering 21st Century. Broadly
speaking, NPE focused on three aspects: i) universal access and enrolment; ii) universal retention;
and, iii) substantial improvement in quality of education.
         Contextual aspect of UEE makes Rajasthan a category apart because of educational
backwardness caused by physical, historical and social factors. In a State like Kerala where
participation was near-universal, the efforts needed were more for quality, facilities and
achievement but in Rajasthan the problem of education had to be addressed comprehensively.
         Therefore, input in the form of DPEP introduced in 1999 as a Centrally Sponsored
Scheme was a welcome measure for Rajasthan as it provided an opportunity to the State to meet
the constitutional obligation of Free and Compulsory Quality Elementary Education on the one
hand and be at par with other educationally advanced states in the country on the other.

1.2 About the Credit
         The credit for DPEP in Rajasthan is a tripartite agreement between IDA, GoI and GoR.
As elsewhere in the country for DPEP Projects, DPEP bureau in the Ministry of Human
Resources, GoI is the coordinating agency while implementing agency in Rajasthan is the
Rajasthan Council of Elementary Education.The Rajasthan DPEP was negotiated in 1999 to
improve the educational status of Rajasthan Literacy level in the state according to 1991 being
38.5%, was the second lowest in the country.
         The number of the districts to be covered under DPEP was 19. Of these, 10 were covered
in the DPEP Phase-I and remaining 9 in Phase-II. The Second Phase of DPEP started from the
year 2001-02 and the five year term was to close in December, 2006. However, the term of the
Project was extended twice: first for one year ending in March, 2007 and second and finally for
another one year ending on 31 March, 2008.
         The initial cost of the Project was Rs. 372.44 Crore which was revised to Rs. 411.26
Crore and the expenditure booked till the credit closing date was Rs. 400.31 Crore. The
expenditure level being 97.34%, the finances were managed well.



                                                 35

1.3 Programme Design
         The Programme design includes the following:
    a) Building institutional infrastructure for action research training and academic supervision
         through setting up institutions at district and sub district level;
    b) Building community support system through VEC, MTA;
    c) Enhancing school effectiveness in terms of its reach (enrolment), grasp (retention) and
         class room transaction and learning achievement;
    d) NFE systems to reach out those who would be still left out;
    e) Convergence of ECCE, primary schooling and health; and,
    f) Programmes and process with focus on girls, SCs, STs.
         Implementation of Phase I of DPEP between 09-3-1999 to 12.3.2005 yielded
encouraging results and left the state better equipped to implement Phase II.

1.4 Project Objective
         The development objective of Rajasthan DPEP was to assist the Government of
Rajasthan to build and strengthen state, district and sub-district capacities to ensure good quality
primary education for all primary age children particularly from disadvantaged groups such as
female, SC, ST, OBC, working children and children with disabilities. This was consistent with
the NEP 1986 and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for 1998.
         Main components of the programme could be summarized thus
    i) Expanding access to primary education especially for disadvantaged groups by opening
         new primary and alternative schools, constructing school buildings, additional class
         rooms and repairs in the existing buildings, providing teachers in proportion to the
         increased demand and strengthening the ICDs by opening ECE centers in villages not
         eligible for ICDS.
    ii) Increasing retention and improving learning achievements by, among others, promoting
         community awareness by establishing SMCs, constructing toilets and providing drinking
         water facilities, developing instructional material, and in service training for teachers.
    iii) Improving state and district capacity to manage primary education by establishing SPO,
         DPOs, BRCs, CRCs, strengthening SIERT, SIEMAT, DIETs.

1. 5 Performance Indicators
         Appreciating the need of clarity about the objectives of the Project in the minds of the
persons implementing the Project at different levels, not only the objectives were communicated
to them but performance indicators, mentioned below, were also prescribed to monitor the
Progress.
  i)     Yearly improvement in GER/NER.
  ii)    Reduction in the disparity in the GERs for boys/Girls, SC, ST and others.
  iii)   Improvement in grade transition rates
  iv)    Reduction in drop out rates.
  v)     Transformed class room practices and improvement in achievement in literacy and
         numeracy.
  vi)    Improved state and district capacities to manage education.
  vii)   In-service training through local institutions
  viii) Increased role of SDMCs.

2.1 Outcome and Achievement of Project objectives.
         Given the nature of the objectives, assessment appears somewhat a difficult proposition
with the implementing machinery widespread and penetrating down to the grass-roots with
numerous players. Nevertheless, at the end of the day it can be said that relevant objectives with



                                                  36

substantial development results, borne out by the data given below, have been achieved without
major shortcomings. The project has had indeed salutary effect on the educational development of
a state counted among the educationally backward states. It was heartening to note that the State
HRD Minister in May 2007 informed the Raj Sabha that Rajasthan has become a front ranking
state in providing enrolment in the schools (Rajasthan Patrika, Jaipur 05.05.2007) There has
come a remarkable improvement in the male and female literacy in 2001 over 1991.While the
male literacy has reached 74.46% from 54.99% the female literacy has reached 44.34% from
20.44%. That the female literacy has doubled in the decade is indeed a remarkable achievement.
The achievement has to be appreciated in the context of the fact that the nine project districts are
low literacy districts.

2.1.1 Expanding Access
         One of the objectives of DPEP-II is to provide access to schools to eligible children. This
has been done by opening new schools or providing Alternative Schools. Alternative Schools
were operated for four hours and six hours depending upon the convenience of the students in the
morning or evening but generally these were running in the evening,; Madrasas - schools run for
the minority Muslim Community; and Bridge Courses of six to nine months for never enrolled or
drop outs mostly for the girls, were also operationalised.
         That the problem of increasing enrolment of eligible children and reducing the number of
the out of schools children was serious is borne out by the fact that during 2001-2002, when the
DPEP-II was introduced, the number of the primary schools in the Project districts was 8586 in
which 493,200 students (279,000 boys and 214,200 girls) were studying, still the number of the
out of schools children was as large as 272,896. As a result of the concerted efforts made, the
number of the out of schools children started declining steadily. By 2005-06, it was brought down
to 59,533. It declined further to 34,919 in 2006-07 and finally to 29,469 in 2007-08. This 10.8%
decline was indeed a remarkable achievement and presents a happy situation.
    It will be in fitness of things to mention here that there were no Alternative Schools in the
project districts in the pre-project period. As a matter of fact, it was a need based innovation
during the project period .The Alternative Schools helped in a big measure in mainstreaming the
out of school children.

2.1.2 Impact on Enrolment
         Access to education has been improved by way of providing school facility in the vicinity
and awareness building through mechanisms like Praveshotsava and Mukhya Mantri Sambal
Abhiyan. These have yielded very desirable results in terms of growing enrollment and abridging
gender gap, the two problems which adversely affected educational development in Rajasthan.
The number of students during 2001-02 in the nine Project Districts was barely 258,000 with a
gender gap of 13.14% which rose to 300,000 during 2007-08 and the gender gap declined to
4.48%. This portrays a very happy picture.

2.1.3 Reducing Gender Gap in the Focused Groups

         While the gender gap at the macro level in the nine project districts declined to 5.92% in
2007-08 from 12.45% in 2001-02, as mentioned above, in the focused groups, the improvement
was still better; it declined to 6.14% from 14.93% for SC and to 4.48% from 13.14% in ST.
Irresistible inference emerging is that the improvement in abridging gender gap in ST was
remarkable.

2.1.4 GER
         Broad picture emerging from the analysis of the GER Data is that there is perceptible
improvement.




                                                  37

2.1.5 PTR
         For good quality education one of the requirements is to have a PTR of 40. At the
beginning of the Project (2001-02), the PTR was 52, this declined to 35.73 in 2005-06 but
increased to 45.54 in 2006-07 and again declined to 34.22 in 2007-08. This shows that there has
been conscious effort by the Government for providing the number of teachers needed. During
the year 2006-07, the PTR was 45.54 because more schools were added but the teachers in equal
numbers were not provided. It was more a management problem at the State level of
appointing/transferring teachers rather than problems of PTR.

2.2 Quality Education
2.2.1 Teachers' Training
         Teachers' Training, an important component of Quality Education, is based on the
premise that the teaching activity for the teachers should not be a routine activity and that the
teachers should be continuously equipped with in-service teachers' training. In the beginning it
was a six-day content based training which since 2005-06 has been changed to 10 days in which
the percentage of the working teachers remained between 87 to 94. The SIERT has played a
meaningful role in preparing training modules and preparing Resource persons. Three-day
capacity building training was also held at BRC and CRC level.
         Advantage of the training courses as observed in the inspections was that the teachers are
now better equipped to handle hard spots. Objectively speaking this is reflected in better results in
the schools.
         At the macro level in the 9 project districts percentage of the teachers trained remained as
given in the following table.
                        Percentage of Trained Teachers in the Project Districts
Year                     Total working               Trained                   Percentage
2005-06                  47610                       41515                     87.19
2006-07                  50598                       46037                     90.98
2007-08                  57136                       55073                     94.77


2.2.3 TLM
TLM is another component of quality education. TLM plays a very effective role in making
teacher learning process effective. For this, Rs. 500/- per teacher per year TLM grant is given.
The teachers prepare the TLM with the help of the students. Based on the observations during
inspections by different categories of officers, it can be said that TLMs have made learning very
effective. It will be in fitness of things to mention that the SIERT has prepared TLM guide
entitled Shivam. This has been very useful for the teachers at the micro level. It is good to
mention here that the availability of the items such as: pencil box, copies; workbooks; Science,
Maths kits; Dari Patti; Green boards; Sports/Sanitation Kits; Music Instruments; Reading Corner,
which is playing a positive role in retention.

BAS, MAS, TAS
         Subject wise achievement level in language and mathematics for class II and V at BAS,
MAS and TAS is given the following tables, which indicates steady improvement in the level of
results. Comparison between BAS (Base line) and TAS (Termination level) show a remarkable
improvement.
    Comparison of Range of Mean Achievement Scours of class II and IV students in Project Districts
 Class                     Language                                           Maths
                         Percentage at                                    Percentage at
              BAS            MAS             TAS             BAS               MAS           TAS
  II      49.70-82.50    64.30-85.62      67.45-88.68     49.45-77.15       71.79-84.4    77.79-88.91
  IV      43.39-60.47    57.64-79.98      61.97-80.75     31.05-50.30      47.35-72.71    52.15-73.30




                                                  38

2.2.4 Quality Assurance
         Analysis of quality assurance data collected for the year 2006-2007 and 2007-2008 from
all the 32 districts yields interesting findings revealed from the data given in the following table:
          Achievement in percentage - class wise and subject wise for 2006-2007 and 2007-2008
                         Year               2006-2007                2007-2008
                                              Class                     Class
                        Subject
                                          IV         VII           IV         VII
                         Hindi           56.06      54.88        58.97       58.71
                      Mathematic         57.46      51.79        61.16       52.57
                        English          59.23      45.00        58.51       53.58
                     Environment         60.47      52.30        63.05       57.80


2.2.5 Distribution of TLM
         Target of distillation of TLM in the past three years exceeded 95%.

2.3 Civil Works
         Civil works constitute an important activity of DPEP borne out by the fact that during the
Project period the expenditure incurred on civil works accounted for 33.10% of the total
expenditure. The civil works included construction of school buildings, addition of class rooms,
drinking water facility, toilets, construction of BRC/ CRC, Alternative Schools, play elements
etc. The absence of the facilities mentioned above failed to make the schools environment
attractive for the students and adversely affected retention of the students in the classes.
         The cost of the civil works during the project period which constitutes 33.10% of the total
expenditure incurred on DPEP in Phase II
         Towards the end of the section it will be in fitness of things to mention that the civil
works carried out in the schools succeeded in making the school premises visually attractive for
the onlookers and functional entities both for the students and the teachers culminating into high
retention borne out by the data.
         Because of the involvement of the SDMCs and the technical input provided by Civil
works unit of the DPEP, the quality of civil works was high. This has been confirmed by third
party evaluation which has rated quality of Civil works to be good in 90% samples across the
State.

2.4 Special Focus Groups
         These categories of students, namely, Girls, Children from SC/ST categories and CWSN,
form focus groups for the simple reason that these were not adequately represented in the student
population. The efforts made for the focus group are summarized below:

2.4.1 CWSN
         Every year functional assessment camp is organized at Block level where with the
assistance of the experts the needs of the CWSN are identified and equipments as per need also
given. At Block level Resource Centers have also been provided where the Recourse Teachers
impart training to the students keeping in view the physical deformity. Such Centers have been
provided at 48 places in DPEP-II Districts.

2.4.2 Alternative Schools and Residential Bridge Courses
         While the Alternative Schools are for the students who are not presently having schools
in the neighborhood the Bridge Courses are organized for Drop outs and Never enrolled children.
Between 2001-2002 and 2007-2008, the number of the beneficiary students was as large as




                                                   39

149.974. It may be mentioned here that all the Alternative Schools have been converted in to
regular Primary Schools.
2.4.3 Special Toilets/ Ramps for CWSN
        To facilitate the CWSN, during the Project period ramps have been provided at 3207
places and special toilets at 49 schools in DPEP II districts.

2.5 Girls Education
        For historical and social reasons, education of girls has remained a neglected area borne
out by the fact that the first Girls' School was established at Udaipur way back in 1865 and that
Rajasthan earned the dubious distinction of recording the lowest female literacy rate of 20.44
which was the lowest in the country. Even at the time of 2001 census, the female literacy in
Rajasthan was 44.34% against 56.46 at the national level.
        During 2001-02, the enrolment in schools in the nine Project districts was 49.32 lakhs. Of
these, 27.90 lakhs were boys and 21.42 Lakhs girls underlining the need of the measures for
abridging gender gap. The problem was more aggravated in case of SC/ST.
    During the year 2001-02, the number of Primary Schools in the Project Districts was 8586
    which has risen to 11311 during 2007-08 indicating that there was a big improvement in
    providing schools in the neighborhood. This led to improvement in enrolment of girls which
    rose by 54% during 2007-08 from 21.42 lakhs in 2001-02.


        Other contributory factors for girl enrolment were as follows:
i   Formation of Mother - Teachers Association : This provided a platform for interaction
    between teachers and mothers for exchange of views and identification of trouble shooting
    areas. The active mothers radiated their views effectively in the village leading to the
    improvement in enrolment of girls.
ii  33% Reservation of Females in SDMCs : 33% Reservation of females in SDMCs
    provided a kind of forced opportunity for the otherwise backward women to work in
    dynamic situations. The female members of SDMCs became proactive members for girls
    enrolment.
iii 33% Reservation of Female Teachers :- Target of providing 33% reservation of Female
    Teachers was fixed at the beginning of the Project. The percentage of female teachers in
    2001-02 was 18% which has risen to 28% in 2007-08. It is gratifying to note that the
    percentage of female teachers has improved substantially.
iv Mahila Meetings : Teachers organize Mahila meetings, attended by leading women in the
    villages, where the importance of girls education is emphasized
v Appointment of Balika Prerak : A dynamic women of the village is appointed as Prerak for
    creating enabling environment for girls education generally and approaching the parents
    disinclined to send the daughters to schools personally.
vi Establishment of Kasturba Gandhi Residential Schools : Starting form the year 2004-05 with
    56 schools, the number of the Kasturba Gandhi Residential schools has reached 186 in
    2007-08 throughout the state. In these schools, the beneficiary girls are from SC/ST/OBC/
    Minority.

2.6 Miscellaneous
i       Teachers' Guide : With the assistance of the SIERT, a publication, entitled Teachers'
Guide, has been brought out and two copies each have been provided to all the schools. As the
name suggests, the book is very useful for the teachers in discharge of their teaching obligation.
ii      Work Book : Work books have been provided to the students for class III to V. In the
social milieu of Rajasthan, workbooks have proved very useful to the students in learing
systematically and fast.



                                                 40

iii      Giju Bhai Award : Giju Bhai was a noted educationist and Social Worker of the
neighboring state Gujarat .Every year best teacher is selected from every district and decorated
with Giju Bhai Award. This serves as an incentive for the teachers to be good and devoted
teachers and inculcates urge for recognition.
iv      Monitoring Teachers : Appointment as teacher paved the way for promotions that came
his way as part of the carrier with or without any efforts for excellence. Now numerous activities
have been provided which encourage him to be active through out. At District level, paper
reading seminars are organized for the teachers.
v       Exposure Visits : Traditionally the activities of the teachers were confined to their
classes. Absenteeism was reported from single teacher schools from many places. The point to be
driven home is that the teacher was working in isolation without any urge for better performance.
The Inter ­district and Inter-state exposure visits for the teachers to better schools provides them
opportunity to know that the job performed by them could be performed still better. The sheer
fact that the school teacher, whose mobility in real life situations is limited because of monetary
factors, get an opportunity to move out of the District / State and realize that there are many
things that could be given to the students. Broadening of the vision of the teachers has proved
very useful.
Vi      Reading Corner: Traditionally the school buildings were poor and not equipped to make
the school premises attractive for the students. The teacher also restricted themselves to
completing the courses. Now there are better school buildings which have a facility called
Reading Corner where books interesting for the students of that age are kept. This has succeeded
in inculcating reading habits in the students.
Vii      Guru Mitra: This is a child friendly class-room without a teacher. Black boards are
provided at a level from where the children could write on them. Picture stories are easy for the
children to comprehend. These are provided for developing capacity to imagine. They are also
given the freedom to write any thing their capacity permits. This develops the capacity of
expression
Viii     Science Kits: Every school is given a science kit to help the teacher explain the subtleties
to students
ix      Mukhya Mantri Shiksha Sambal Maha Abhiyan : Rajasthan has a unique feature of
enrolment drive known as Mukhya Mantri Shiksha Sambal Abhiyan introduced from the year
2005-06, and conducted between 15 July to 15 August every year. Progress at the district level is
monitored by senior IAS officers. The Abhiyan is basically a kind of enrolment drive for
identification of eligible children between 6-14 years, drop out and never enrolled. Students
eligible for admission and drop out students are admitted and the never enrolled are appropriately
adjusted in the schools or in the Bridge courses. Provision of Social audit has also been made so
that the community identifies the out of school children and efforts made for their admission.
Progress at the district level is reviewed by the Minister In charge for the district, Collector and
senior IAS officer for bringing efficacy. This programme is preceded by Praveshotsava (Festival
of Admission period) at the village level. This has contributed significantly to the enrolment in
the schools borne out by enrolment data.
x       Mobile Computer Van: The Govt of Rajasthan has entered into an agreement with
GENPACT, a software company. The company has made available five Mobile vans equipped
with18 computers each. The van provides computer facility to students of VI-VIII class in five
DPEP II districts, namely, Jaipur, Dausa, Dholpur. Bharatpur and Hanumangarh in the urban
areas. Though DPEP is restricted up to standard       V but the incidental benefit is that when the
computer van visits the schools, these provide computer awareness to students and the teachers of
the schools. When the students enter VI standard, they are already aware about computer
education.xi     District Level Examination at Primary Level : With a view to introducing
uniformity in assessing the students at the examinations, papers are centrally set at the district




                                                 41

level for class III, IV and V. This is also a measure to combat the element of bias in the
examinations.
xii      Rajasthan Education Initiative (REI): In was during the implementation of DPEP that the
need and importance of REI emerged. Introducing REI during the year 2005 was a watershed in
the educational history of the state. REI is a thoughtful and a bold step based on public private
partnership for faster educational development. It involves not only ICT interventions in schools
but also socially relevant initiates to help in creating enabling environment for holistic
development. Among others, the objectives of REI include abridging gender gap, universal
elementary education for girls, strengthening education through computer education and
development of children by providing nutritious food in the form Mid-Day-Meal, drinking water
and toilet facility. In the present from, REI is serving as an umbrella under which innovative
multi-stakeholder partnerships are crystallized by engaging the global and local private sector
foundations, charitable organizations and other grass-root NGOs in support of REI. So far 26
MoUs have been signed.
xiii     State Institute of Educational Management and Training:- (SIEMAT): SIEMAT is an
important bench mark under DPEPII. The building has been completed at a cost of Rs. 3 Crore.
It will be operationalised soon after the staff is in place.

xiv      Lingua Labs: Proficiency in English is a serious problem both for the teachers and the
students of Rajasthan. Therefore Lingua Labs have been established at seven places one each at
the divisional head quarters where a training of duration of one month and a half is given to a
batch of 20 teachers.


3. Environmental Strengthening
         The schools have a changed face now. With the construction of the new buildings or
addition of the rooms and regular maintenance, the school buildings are attractive places even for
the on lookers. Provision of toilets, waste water management, rain water harvesting and plantation
has generated environmental awareness both among the students and the village community.

4. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
4.1 Advance Preparation for implementation
         Conceptually DPEP is a comprehensive demand driven project having a wide coverage
and elaborate objectives demanding participation from the grass- root to the top. At the grass-
root level, the teacher is the king- pin of the project, and has to understand the project objectives,
mobilize the community, improve the quality of teaching, collect data from time to time for
onward transmission to project authorities. These are new situations for the teachers to handle
.Because of their exposure, those placed in higher levels, find it easy to appreciate the niceties of
the programme but the teacher who all along has been tied down to the idea of completing the
course and preparing the children for the annual examination, finds if difficult to adjust to the
new work milieu. The problem is aggravated by the language limitation of teachers in English
because the project report is in English.
         Except for officers placed in administrative positions, practically all the players in the
project are teachers or one time teachers in the past. The project, however, expects them to follow
the project guide lines. The project also involves procurement which is to be done according to
the IDA guide lines. The teachers for one thing in the past were not required to participate in the
procurement process and if at all they did, they followed the state Finance Department, guide-
lines contained in the GF&AR. The IDA guide-lines are qualitatively different and the teachers
find it difficult to adjust to the new situation.
         Therefore, for a successful working of a project like DPEP, a period of three to six
months after the credit agreement should be earmarked for preparation of the project. In this
period, workshops should be organized at different levels to explain the Project objectives,



                                                   42

expectations from the Project, procedures and procurement. It should be made clear here that it
was a time bound project negotiated after serious deliberations and thus make the targets
sacrosanct and that the available funds should be judiciously used for the works sanctioned.

4.2 Defining the objectives keeping in view the ground realities
        While defining the project objectives, it should be ensured that these are practical. Case
in point is the reservation for female teachers. Ideally every one wants that 33 % posts of teachers
should be reserved for woman. But practically this is not possible because of legal difficulties.
Till such time the posts for the woman are not reserved, every one is equal before law and the
more meritorious regardless of sex will be appointed. It is good that a large number of woman
teachers have been appointed but this cannot be forced in the present circumstances.

4.3 Frequent changes in the Head of the SPO
        SPD is the king -pin of the project at the State level. In a big measure, the success of the
project hinges on the commitment and dynamism of the SPD. Frequent changes in SPDs impede
the progress the Project. In a short period of six years, there were nine SPDs. Since the project
period is five to six years, ideally there should one person working as SPD through out the period.

4.4 Solving Legal issues a dilatory process
        Requirement of the PTR according to the project entailed recruitment of teachers but this
was inordinately delayed because of the court cases. Since the selection of the teachers was done
through the State Public Service Commission, the process of recruitment was further delayed but
the silver lining in the case was that there was transparency in the selection of teachers.

5. Project sustainability
        Sustainability of the project is not in doubt because of the sustained interest of the
successive governments for rapid expansion of education in the state. When the agreement of
DPEP was signed with the IDA, Universal Free and Compulsory Education figured only as Art
45 in the Constitution of the Republic. However with the 86th constitutional amendment in 2002,
there has come a qualitative change in the situation because free, compulsory and quality
education of children aged 6-14 years is now a fundamental right. Moreover, the Sarva Shiksha
Abhiya, a flagship programme of GOI aiming at Universal Elementary Education being
implemented through out the country will take care of sustainability of the project.

6. Bank Performance
        The Bank performance in identification, preparation assistance, appraisal and supervision
has been consistently highly satisfactory. In the initial stages of the project preparation and
appraisal, the task was very difficult for those assigned the work in the GOR because the data
required was of great magnitude. However the patience and useful cooperation extended by the
Bank officers made the seemingly difficult job workable. The supervision visits of the Bank
Missions were of great help in expeditious implementation of the project components and the
field visits of the Mission Members provided objective and useful feed -back for remedial
measures.

7. Borrowers Performance
        Despite the given complexities of the project for the implementing agencies and obvious
limitations of the players, their role in preparing and implementing the project was satisfactory.

8. Lesson Learned
        DPEP is a comprehensive project embracing educational reforms of far reaching
implications on the educational system of the state. During the course of implementation, it was



                                                  43

realized that following would have enriched the programme content and improved the efficiency
of implementation.

8.1 Secretariat status for SPD
        The implementation of the Project is marked by dual control of the RCEE and the GoR,
though in actuality the latter has a superior position for two reasons:
    i) The GOR is signatory to the agreement and therefore accountability rests with GOR; and,
    ii) For sanctions/approvals the files have to be sent to secretariat.
        For one thing getting sanctions/approvals from Secretariat is a dilatory process and for
other the SPD, who himself is a senior IAS officer, is required to send files to the Secretariat for
the cases he is otherwise competent to take decision. If the SPD is given the Secretariat status i.e.
ex-officio Special Secretary, the decision making will be fast.
8.2 Fixing the targets taking into account ground realities
        The targets for reducing the Gender Gap and Dropout Ratio were unrealistic for a project
period of five years, white assessing the "success" of the Project, it is important to keep this in
mind. Literacy improvement is a social, cultural, economic challenge which cannot be fully
turned around realistically in such a short time span.
8.3 Pre Project Preparation for effective working of the project
        For successful and expeditious implementation of a complex project like DPEP, it is
necessary that the players in the project are in advance familiarized with project content, strategy
and role expectations.
8.4 Statutory position for SDMC
        For effective position of SDMC it should be giving statutory position in the PRI. In that
position community mobilization will be a lot more easy and effective.
8.5 Rajasthan Education Initiatives (REI)
        It was during the course of the implication of DPEP that the need for and utility of REI
was felt. Rajasthan in this case has been the pioneer state. Keeping in view its importance in
improving the delivery of educational services, particularly promoting equitable access,
enrollment and retention in schools, reducing gender disparities promoting skill development
and enhancing learning, model of REI based on PPP should form part of the project like DPEP.




                                                  44

Annex 6. List of Support Documents

Aide Memoires:
·  District Primary Education Project (DPEP): Twenty-sixth Joint Review Mission, January 21
   ­ February 5, 2008
·  District Primary Education Project (DPEP): Twenty-fifth Joint Review Mission, September
   3-11, 2007
·  District Primary Education Project (DPEP): Twenty-fourth Joint Review Mission, December
   7 ­ 15, 2006
·  District Primary Education Project (DPEP): Twenty-third Joint Review Mission, June 19-27,
   2006
·  District Primary Education Project (DPEP): Twenty-second Joint Review Mission, January
   11 ­ 24, 2006
·  District Primary Education Project (DPEP): Twenty-first Joint Review Mission, May 5-16,
   2005
·  District Primary Education Project (DPEP): Twentieth Joint Review Mission, November 29 ­
   December 13, 2004
·  District Primary Education Project (DPEP): Nineteenth Joint Review Mission, July 8 ­ 21,
   2004

Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) Reports:
·  Rajasthan District Primary Education Project, June 21, 2006; Report No. 36106
·  Elementary Education Project (SSA-I); May 4, 2008; Report No. ICR0000193

Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) (for DPEP-II):
·  ISR No. 14 Dated: 12/18/2007
·  ISR No. 13 Dated: 06/19/2007
·  ISR No. 12 Dated: 12/19/2006
·  ISR No. 11 Dated: 06/12/2006
·  ISR No. 10 Dated: 12/16/2005

Project Appraisal Document (PAD):
·  Rajasthan District Primary Education Project; May 29, 1999; Report No. 18934-IN
·  Rajasthan Second District Primary Education Project, May 26, 2001; Report No. 21955-IN
·  Second Elementary Education Project (SSA-II); April 15, 2008; Report No. 41114-IN
·  Third District Primary Education Project; November 30, 2006; ICR-0000172
·  Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project; October 30, 2006; ICR-000164-IN

Annual Status of Education Report (2007). Pratham, India, January 2008.

District Primary Education Program Guidelines; Department of Education, Ministry of Human
Resources Development, New Delih

World Bank, Learning Achievements in India: A Study of Primary Education in Rajasthan,
Sangeeta Goyal, May 2007




                                             45

MAP




       46

47

