Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H107-BD 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Economic Management Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 30, 2004 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H107-BD  
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 2004, between the PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
BANGLADESH (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B)  
the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, hereby, agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
 
(a) 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 3.05, 6.05 and Article VII, are 
deleted in their entirety. 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are 
modified to read as follows: 
 
(i) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(ii) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(iii) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where 
used in Sections 6.02(a)(ii) and 6.02(c)(i), as modified below, 
the term “credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
 
(iv) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(v) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
(c) 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
Section 4.02(a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02 Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the 
Grant in the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or 
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(ii) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General 
Conditions the words “principal and service charges” are 
modified to read “commitment charge”. 
 
(iii) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03 Amount of the Grant. 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be 
the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency 
or currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
(d) 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
Section 6.02(a)(ii) is modified to read: “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02(c)(i) is modified to read: “any development grant 
agreement, development credit agreement or development financing 
agreement”. 
 
(e) 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) 
of Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05. Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Bangladesh Bank” means the Recipient’s central bank;   
 
(b) 
“BBS” means Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics; 
 
(c) 
“EMTAP” means Economic Management Technical Assistance 
Program; 
 
(d) 
“ERD” means Economic Relations Division of the MOF (hereinafter 
defined); 
 
(e) 
“Finance Division” means Finance Division of the MOF (as hereinafter 
defined); 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“FY” or “Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Recipient, 
which commences on July 1 of each calendar year and ends on June 30 of the 
calendar year thereafter; 
 
(h) 
“ICAB” means the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
Bangladesh; 
 
(i) 
“ICMAB” means the Institute of Cost and Management 
Accountants of Bangladesh; 
 
(j) 
 “I-PRSP” means the Recipient’s Interim  Poverty Reduction 
Strategy Paper;  
 
(k) 
“MOC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Commerce; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(l) 
“MOE” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Establishment; 
 
(m) 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance; 
 
(n) 
“MOI”  means the Recipient’s Ministry of Information; 
 
(o) 
“MOSICT” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Science and 
Information and Communication Technology;  
 
(p) 
“NBR” means the Recipient’s National Board of Revenue; 
 
(q) 
“Results Monitoring Indicators” means indicators referred to in  
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“Procurement Regulations” means the Recipient’s Procurement 
Regulations of October 1, 2003, acceptable to the Association, published in the 
Recipient’s Gazette, and which is to be observed in the carrying out of the 
Project;  
 
(s) 
“PSC” means the Recipient’s Public Service Commission; 
 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(u) 
“Steering Committee” means the steering committee referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
 
(v) 
“Sub-project” means any of the Sub-projects carried  out by 
various executing agencies on the basis of respective approved TAPPs (as 
hereinafter defined) under the Project;   
 
(w) 
“Taka” means the currency of the Recipient;  
 
(x) 
“TAPP” means Technical Assistance Project  Proforma; 
 
(y) 
“Upazila” means a sub-district, the lowest administrative unit in the 
territory of the Recipient; and  
 
(z) 
“VAT” means value added tax. 
 
ARTICLE II 
Page  6
-
5
-
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirteen million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 13,800,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account (Special Account) in Bangladesh Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a 
rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date 
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from 
the next date in that year specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in United States dollars or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on March 1 
and  September 1 in each year. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project  in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before  the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views  with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain or cause to be 
established and maintained a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) With
out
limitation upon the Recipient’s progress 
reporting obligations elsewhere in this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report (FMR), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which:  
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned 
implementation of  the Project; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project  through the end of 
such calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the Development Grant Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient has approved the TAPP for the Sub-project to be 
executed by World Bank Branch-1 of ERD for supporting central management of 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient has approved and implemented the proposal to 
augment capacity of World Bank Branch-1 of ERD, in  line with agreed staffing, 
through posting of adequate staff  with relevant expertise and adequate 
experience, including two officials for financial management and one official for 
procurement, and provision of necessary accommodation and administrative 
support.  
 
(c) 
The Recipient has constituted the Steering Committee with terms 
of reference acceptable to the Association.  
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary, or Deputy Secretary, or Senior Assistant Secretary, or Assistant 
Secretary, or Joint Chief, or Deputy Chief, or Senior Assistant Chief, or Assistant 
Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the 
Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Economic Relations Division 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of the People’s Republic 
 
of
Bangladesh 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
BAHIRSAMPAD 
 
 642226 SETU BJ 
88028113088 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH  
 
By /s/ Badiur Rahman 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ David Hughart 
 
Acting Country Director 
Bangladesh  
Page  13
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods   
 
100% of foreign  
 
Expenditures; 100% 
of  
 
local expenditures 
(ex- 
 
factory costs); and 
70%
of local expenditures  
 
for other items  
procured locally 
 
(a)  For Parts B, C, D and F                3,520,000 
 
(b)  For Parts A and E                         1,590,000 
 
(2) 
 
Consultants’ Services,  
 
including Training,  
 
Workshops,  Seminars and other  
 
Dissemination  Activities 
 
80%  
 
(a)  For Parts B, C, D and F 
3,560,000 
 
(b)  For Parts A and E 
2,500,000 
 
(3)   Incremental Operating Costs 
 
80% for
 
FYs 2005 
 
and 2006, 70% for  
 
FYs 2007 and 2008,  
 
and 60% thereafter  
 
(a)  For Parts B, C, D and F 
790,000 
 
(b)  For Parts A and E 
460,000 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
(4)  Unallocated  
1,380,000 
 
____________ 
 TOTAL 
13,800,000 
 
=========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient;   
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the salaries and 
allowance of incremental staff, other than the Recipient’s regular employees, 
 
incremental operation and maintenance costs of equipment and vehicles, and costs of 
consumables, procured under the Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:  (a) no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement; and (b) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments 
made for expenditures for Sub-projects, unless: (i) the Recipient has approved the 
TAPPs for such   Sub-project, in accordance with the procedures agreed with the 
Association, and described in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) 
the Recipient has formally assigned the responsibilities for effectively managing 
the Sub-project, including appointing, posting or assigning the responsibility to 
existing officials in the executing agencies for management, procurement, and 
accounting; and (iii) the Recipient has provided proposals, satisfactory to the 
Association, for developing monitoring and evaluation systems for the Sub-
projects throughout the implementation of the Project.   
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account  to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent; (b) services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent for employment of firms, and $50,000 for employment of 
individuals; (c) local training, workshops/seminars and other dissemination activities; and 
(d) incremental staff salaries and operating costs, all under such terms or conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  15
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to strengthen its core 
economic management capacities and contribute to better policy management and 
better functioning of the public administration and the corporate sector.
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Strengthening Capacities for Better Policy Formulation and Implementation 
and Improving the Functioning of the Civil Service and Public Administration
Supporting capacity building through carrying out of Sub-projects related 
to economic management and public administration, in line with the priorities of 
Recipient’s I-PRSP, including, 
inter alia,
 strengthening: (a) the public 
administration on issues of personnel management and training; (b) project 
preparation and management; 
 
(c) performance monitoring of SOEs; (d) monitoring and management of external 
debt service liabilities owed by the Recipient; (e) BBS’s capacity for monitoring 
growth and  employment; (f) poverty monitoring and evaluation; (g) export 
competitiveness and trade-related capacity building; (h) land records and 
management; and (i) improvement of public sector financial management. 
 
Part B
:
Modernizing Revenue Administration
1.  
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment to modernize revenue 
administration, through NBR, to help initiate a phased shift to a functional organizational 
design, and to strengthen the role and capacity of NBR, including provision of the 
services of a change management advisor, transitional support of a senior IT/MIS 
manager and three IT/MIS assistant managers.  
 
2. 
 
Improving human resource management policies and practices of the NBR 
including those relating to recruitment, compensation and career development, to  
support implementation of a new strategic development plan for the NBR.   
 
3. 
Carrying out of: (a) an assessment of the information technology needs of 
the revenue administration, based on a new and modernized organizational 
design; and 
 
(b) needs-assessment of NBR to move towards a new and modernized tax 
Page  16
-
15 -
administration, based on an improved functional and technical design that support 
new functions and processes.   
 
Page  17
-
16 -
4. 
 
Provision of technical advisory services: (a) to improve customs valuation, 
assessment and clearance procedures and techniques of risk assessment of 
potential tax evasion and revenue loss; and (b) to improve information generated 
by ASYCUDA system modules to undertake reforms leading to speedier and 
more efficient and transparent customs clearance operations.  
 
5.  
  Strengthening of the Research and Statistics Wing of NBR
 
through the 
provision of technical advisory services, including training, and software and 
hardware to improve the quality and usefulness of work undertaken by the Wing 
on estimation of the revenue impacts of tax measures, and  carrying out analysis 
of incidence of tax burden, collection trends, compliance gaps, and impact of tax 
policy changes.     
 
6. 
Strengthening of training activities for revenue administration staff, 
through t
he
development of modern curricula of NBR’s training academies in the 
area of three major taxes and through programs for training of trainers for NBR 
staff.    
 
Part C
:
Strengthening Accounting and Auditing Practices in the Corporate 
Sector
1. 
Preparation of a draft Financial Reporting Act and design of an 
independent financial reporting regulatory body.    
 
2. 
Establishment and operationalization of a financial reporting council to act 
as an independent regulatory body. 
 
3. 
Strengthen the capacity of ICAB, through twinning arrangement with a  
professional accountancy body of a developed country.    
 
4. 
Strengthening the  capacity of ICMAB with the assistance of a 
professional body of management accountants of international standards. 
 
5. 
Provision of technical advisory services to strengthen capacities of 
Bangladesh Bank, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and Department of 
Insurance to enable them to deal efficiently with issues relating to financial 
reporting by the regulated entities.  
 
6. 
Provision of technical advisory services to implement a comprehensive 
plan for education and training including improving curricula and quality of 
teaching of accounting and auditing by universities, colleges, ICAB and ICMAB 
Page  18
-
17 -
and other entities to facilitate implementation of international financial reporting 
standards and international standards of accounting through high quality 
education. 
 
Part D
:
Improving Use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT
)
1.  
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment to MOSICT to 
develop an E-Government strategy and a National ICT road map, and carrying out 
of an assessment of the legal and regulatory changes required to ensure that all  
e-documentation filings and processes are recognized as being legally valid.   
 
2.   
Provision of technical assistance and investment support in establishing an 
integrated electronic communications network consisting of e-mail, websites and 
an integrated records and information system.     
 
3.  
Provision of technical advisory services to develop and deliver training programs 
for civil servants to become IT-literate and promote ICT use in government. 
 
Part E
:
Strengthening Strategic Communication between Government and 
Stakeholders
1.   
Provision of technical advisory services, equipment and logistical 
assistance for the establishment of a Strategic Communications Unit under the 
MOI. 
 
2.   
Training for officials on strategic communications for reforms, including 
revamping training curricula of the National Institute of Mass Communication 
(NIMCO).   
 
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services, equipment and logistical 
assistance for the establishment of an integrated E-network.   
 
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services, equipment and logistical 
assistance for the enhancing communication capacity in the different ministries 
and agencies of the Recipient agencies.
 
5. 
Carrying out of additional activities to support strategic communication 
for reform agreed upon by the Recipient and the Association.
 
Part F
:
Logistical and Consultancy Support to the Central Management of 
EMTAP by
Page  19
-
18 -
 
the World Bank Branch-1 of ERD 
1. 
Provision of office equipment and logistical support to the team managing 
the EMTAP centrally. 
 
2. 
Carrying out dissemination activities to inform and familiarize ongoing 
and potential agencies and other stakeholders about the Project, including the 
guiding principles for Sub-project selection and funding. 
 
3. 
Provision for short-term procurement consultancy services and 
independent post audit of procurement on a sample basis by chartered 
accountancy firms.  
 
*
*
*
The Project  is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  20
-
19 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of this Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
All goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more per contract shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower.  
 
(b) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
All goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, 
may  be procured under national competitive bidding procedure, in accordance 
with the Recipient’s Procurement Regulations. 
Page  21
-
20 -
 
Page  22
-
21 -
2. International/National 
Shopping 
All goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under international or national shopping procedure in accordance 
with the Recipient’s Procurement Regulations. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
All goods estimated to cost less than $2,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded through direct contracting procedure, in 
accordance with the Recipient’s Procurement Regulations.  
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, a procurement plan 
for goods, which shall include contract cost estimates, contract packaging, and applicable 
procurement procedures, shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated at least every 12 months during the execution of 
the Project, always covering the next 18 months, and each such updating shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval. Procurement of all goods shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (a) above, the Association 
may, at its own discretion, carry out review of any contract awarded in accordance with 
this Section.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Association may, at its own discretion, carry out post review/procurement audit of any 
contract awarded in accordance with this Section and may take action in accordance with 
paragraph 1.13 of the Guidelines. The Recipient shall carry out procurement review of 
such contracts by independent consultant in accordance with the provision of the 
Recipient’s Procurement Regulations. 
Page  23
-
22 -
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Quality- and Cost- Based Selection (QCBS)/Fixed Budget Selection (FBS) 
Services through firms estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract may be 
procured following quality- and cost-based selection or selection under a fixed budget 
method, in accordance with the Recipient’s Procurement Regulations. All contracts 
costing $200,000 or more but less than $750,000 shall follow the QCBS or FBS method 
in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Fixed Budget Selection (FBS)/Least Cost Selection (LCS)
Services through firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract may be 
procured following FBS or LCS method in accordance with the Recipient’s Procurement 
Regulations.   
 
Page  24
-
23 -
3. 
Single-Source Selection (SSS)
Specific consultants’ services through firms 
estimated to cost less than 
$300,000 per contract,
 may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured 
following SSS method, in accordance with the Recipient’s Procurement Regulations.   
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants, estimated to cost $50,000 or more for tasks 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. All other individual consultants may be 
selected following Recipient’s Procurement Regulations.  
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, contract 
packaging, and applicable selection procedures, shall be furnished to the Association for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated at least every 12 months during 
the execution of the Project always covering the next 18 months period, and each such 
updating shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as 
updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of  
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
 
Page  25
-
24 -
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Association may, at its own discretion, carry out post review/ procurement audit of any 
contract awarded in accordance with this Section and may take action in accordance with 
paragraph 1.18 of the Consultant Guidelines. The Recipient shall carry out procurement 
review of such contracts by independent consultant in accordance with the provision of 
the Recipient’s Procurement Regulations. 
 
Page  26
-
25 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall assign to the World Bank Branch-1 of ERD the 
responsibility to act as the focal point for the implementation of the Project and to 
execute Part F of the Project. Individual Sub-projects under Part A of the Project shall be 
implemented by various executing agencies. NBR shall execute Part B of the Project. The 
MOC, shall execute the activities relating to ICAB, ICMAB and education and training in 
accounting and auditing under Part C of the Project. The Finance Division shall execute 
the activities relating to financial reporting act, financial reporting regulatory body and 
Securities and Exchange Commission, Bangladesh Bank and Department of Insurance 
under Part C of the Project.  The MOSICT shall execute Part D of the Project. Part E 
shall be executed by MOI. Sub-projects, approved during the implementation, shall also 
be managed by the Ministry or agency that has prepared the proposal and has the 
mandate to carry out the activities to be financed under  such Sub-project.   
2. 
The Recipient shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain a 
Steering Committee, to be responsible for: (a) assessing the priority of the 
technical assistance Sub-projects in terms of consistency with the strategic 
framework and the priority objectives of the sector strategy presented in the I-
PRSP; (b) monitoring the policy aspects and implications of the Sub-project 
activities supported under the Project; and 
 
(c) monitoring achievement of objectives and results of the overall Project, and 
initiating adequate measures to effectively address constraints that might be 
affecting the efficient implementation of the Project and the full realization of 
expected results. The Steering Committee shall include representatives from 
ERD, Finance Division, Socio-Economic Infrastructure Division of the Planning 
Commission, Ministry of Establishment, and the Implementation Monitoring and 
Evaluation Division (IMED) of the Recipient’s Ministry of Planning.  
 
3. (a) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Results 
Monitoring Indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project  and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2007, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above, on the 
Page  27
-
26 -
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project  and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(iii) 
review with the Association, by July 31, 2007, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-
paragraph (ii) above, and, thereafter, take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.  
 
(b) 
The mid-term review referred to in (a) above shall, 
inter alia
,
cover the 
(i) Project scope, design and implementation arrangements, and institutional changes;  
(ii) procurement performance; (iii) performance of consultants; (iv) fund flows; and  
(v) lessons learned.   
 
Guiding Principles For 
Sub-projects To Be Considered For Funding 
4. 
In approving the Sub-projects, for the purpose of funding under the Project, the 
Recipient shall follow the Guiding Principles described below:   
 
(a) 
The Sub-project is consistent with the Recipient’s sector strategy and 
policy objectives as reflected in the I-PRSP and with the medium term budgetary 
framework, where applicable.    
 
(b) 
The Sub-project supports institutional capacity building and enhances 
public sector efficiency in carrying out core functions, including playing a strategic role 
or improving service delivery and reflects a strong public sector rationale.  
 
(c) 
The Sub-project h
elps better utilization of human or financial resources 
or existing capacities or better management of public assets.   
 
(d) 
The Sub-project s
upports design and implementation of policy and 
institutional reforms in key areas. 
 
(e) 
The Sub-project s
upports high impact of public investment on growth 
through preparation of programs and projects in key areas.  
 
(f) 
The Sub-project p
romotes efficiency of functioning of the public sector  
through better communication and information sharing and record keeping.  
 
Page  28
-
27 -
(g) 
The Sub-project p
romotes better understanding of Government’s 
development activities, priorities and plans and helps build support through better 
communication with other stakeholders.  
 
(h) 
The Sub-project reflects strong felt needs, including analytical 
assessments, and consultations with relevant stakeholders or their involvement in 
project design or implementation. 
 
(i) 
The Sub-project is backed by clearly specified objectives and 
results aimed to be achieved and a monitoring and evaluation framework with 
indicators that allow the tracking of  progress towards achieving the intended 
results.  
 
(j) 
The Sub-project is sustainable in terms of budgetary or manpower 
implications, with proposal supported by indications of recurrent cost implications 
and budgetary impact, where applicable,  or in terms of realizing the benefits of 
investment in training.  
 
5. 
Unless otherwise agreed between the Recipient and the Association, for 
the purpose of selecting Sub-projects, the procedures described in (a) through (c) 
below shall be observed:  
 
(a) 
The technical assistance Sub-projects, and related technical 
assistance activities to be carried out shall consist of: 
 
(i) 
such Sub-projects, for which no-objection has been 
obtained by the Recipient from the Association; and 
 
(ii) 
such Sub-projects and related technical assistance activities 
that have been selected following the procedures of the 
Recipient set forth in (b) below. 
 
(b) 
The approval procedures referred to above shall consist of such 
steps,  satisfactory to the Association, including, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
 
(i) 
Sub-project seeking funding under the Project shall follow 
the Recipient’s existing procedures for processing and 
approval of Sub-project  TAPPs; 
 
(ii) 
ERD shall, upon receipt of funding requests, submit the 
draft TAPPs to the Association for its review; and 
Page  29
-
28 -
 
Page  30
-
29 -
 
(iii) 
upon review of such draft TAPPs by the Association, and 
after incorporation by the implementing agencies of the 
Association’s comments, if any, in such TAPPs for Sub-
projects that the Association might agree to consider 
supporting, ERD shall forward such revised TAPPs to the 
Recipient’s relevant authority for approval of financing 
under the Project. 
 
(c) 
Upon receipt of such approved TAPPs, ERD shall submit them to 
the Association for its no-objection.  
 
Page  31
-
30 -
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;   
 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project  and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
“Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall 
be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Grant Account allocated to Categories (1) through (3) plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts, which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested. 
 
Page  32
-
31 -
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify. 
 
Page  33
-
32 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment 
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and  
Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or 
Page  34
-
33 -
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  35
-
34 -
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request; or 
 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  36
-
35 -
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Results  Monitoring Indicators 
 
For Part A of the Project  
Indicators shall be made available through the Sub-project proposals that 
will be submitted during the life of the project, which will be required to specify 
results indicators and a suggested mechanism for monitoring them. 
 
For Part B of the Project
1. 
NBR develops a Strategic Development Plan, taking into account good practice 
and stakeholder views, including a new organizational structure that is moving towards 
functional lines. 
 
2. 
NBR implements a phased shift towards a broadly functional organizational 
design, beginning with a hybrid approach (functional and tax-by-tax) in the transitional 
period, with the appointment of a new member for corporate strategy and human 
resources functions, so as to create an enabling institutional environment for better 
management, accountability and compliance.    
 
3. 
Adoption of a new human resource strategy for NBR by 2006.   
 
4. 
Adoption by the NBR of a comprehensive ICT strategy by end-2005, 
encompassing general principles and specific choices on platforms, connectivity, use of 
ICT to submit tax declarations and customs clearance documents and policies on 
contracting out maintenance of ICT infrastructure.  
 
5. 
NBR develops the infrastructure for improved communication and 
information sharing within the organization by adopting an ICT strategy and MIS, 
based on an ICT-needs assessment and consistent with its improved functional 
design. 
 
6. 
ICT function institutionalized and made sustainable through establishment 
of a budget line entry for ICT operation and maintenance  for NBR and 
departments under its control. 
 
7. 
Introduction of formalized ICT posts in NBR and departments under its 
control.  
 
8. 
NBR strengthens customs valuation and assessment/clearance procedures, which 
aim to improve efficiency in customs administration, as measured by the reduction in 
Page  37
-
36 -
customs clearance/processing time and costs to importers and exporters, monitored on a 
monthly basis, for Chittagong and  Dhaka.  
 
9. 
Develop capacity to use PSI summary statistics and Asycuda-based data to 
undertake risk 
–assessment-based audit selection processes for customs inspection. 
 
10. 
Curricula of the NBR’s training academies improved by focusing training on 
priority areas including accounting, auditing and enforcement, for the three major  taxes,  
and improvement in training coverage, as measured by the increase in share of revenue 
administration staff trained in priority areas. 
 
11. 
Number of courses conducted FY05, FY06, and FY07 by the two training  
academies, based on curriculum recommendations of the TA-supported 
assessment for curriculum development;   
 
12. 
Number of  officials receiving “in service” or post-initial training in priority 
areas, including auditing, monitored separately for the two taxation cadres.  
 
13. 
Coverage and quality of fiscal statistics and research improved, as measured by 
the increase in the capacity of the Research and Statistics Wing to provide answers to 
policy-relevant questions, evaluate tax policy alternatives and provide tax intelligence. 
For Part C of the Project
1. 
The legal and regulatory framework for improved financial reporting established, 
as measured by the enactment of a Financial Reporting Act (FRA), which includes 
provisions for International Accounting Standards/International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IAS/IFRS) and International Standards in Auditing (IAS), as well as 
provisions for the establishment of an independent regulatory body for accounting and 
auditing practices in the corporate sector, which will be responsible for their enforcement 
and monitoring. 
 
2. 
Establishment of an independent regulatory body for accounting and auditing 
practices and its effective functioning, consistent with the provisions of the FRA. 
 
3. 
Capacity of ICAB enhanced, as measured by the satisfactory implementation of a   
twinning arrangement with an international professional accountancy body and adequate 
coverage of IAS/IFRS and ISA in its curriculum. 
 
4. 
Adoption of improved policies and practices related to examinations, 
training and licensing, leading to an increase in the proportion of successful 
examinees, and number of newly qualified chartered accountants graduating every 
year.   
 
Page  38
-
37 -
5.
Teaching curricula for universities and colleges improved to include 
IAS/IFRS and ISA, and number of qualified teachers increased, as measured by 
the increase in the number of trainers that complete successfully both foreign and 
local program of training of trainers.    
 
6.
Improved educational and training programs in accounting and auditing, 
leading to an increase in college/university graduates trained in International 
Accounting Standards/International Financial Reporting Standards and 
International Standards on Auditing.  
 
Part D of the Project
1. 
Improving information and communication technologies in government by 
making use of electronic communication and development of a National ICT 
strategy. 
 
2. 
Establishment of a coherent  framework for  ICT by developing and adopting an 
e-Government strategy and road map for development of the ICT sector by 
 
December 2005. 
 
3. 
Increase in share of Class I cadre civil servants provided ICT training by 
mid-term review and end of the Project period. 
 
4. 
Increased use of ICT in the government, as measured by the share of Class I 
cadre civil servants using email and internet services at the end of the Project, compared 
with 2004. 
 
5. 
Electronic methods to disseminate government information, internal notices and 
correspondence such as minutes of meetings, project reviews, and office orders, adopted.  
 
6. 
Necessary legal and regulatory amendments made so that all e-
documentation filings and processes are recognized as being legally valid. 
 
Part E of the Project  
1.
Establishment and operationalization of a Strategic Communication Unit 
(SCU) in the Ministry of Information. 
 2. 
Number of Government officials trained in strategic communication. 
3.
Integration of the strategic communication unit and all relevant sites of  
ministries and agencies under one network for better coordination. 
Page  39
-
38 -
4.
Establishing links between the SCU and central government offices, such 
as the Prime Minister’s office, Ministry of Information, and Ministries of Finance 
and Planning, with communication demands on a day-to-day basis.   
Page  40
-
39 -
Part F of the Project
Effectiveness of central management of EMTAP by the World Bank 
Branch-1 of ERD, in line with agreed terms of reference, including, coordination 
and monitoring of Sub-project activities supported under the Project, promotion 
of
their effective implementation, and promotion of sub-project proposals of high 
quality in priority areas to help meet the objectives of the Project.
 
