Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
Report No.:  AB887 
Project Name 
Economic Management Technical Assistance Program (EMTAP) 
Region 
South Asia  
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P083890 
Recipient 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
Implementing Agency 
Economic Relations Division, Ministry of Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
June 8, 2004 
Date of Submission to 
Printshop 
May 27, 2004 
Date of Board Review  
June 22, 2004 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Bangladesh has maintained steady economic growth since the early nineties and has made considerable 
improvements in income poverty and social indicators.  Social indicators, such as life expectancy, literacy 
and enrolment rates have improved tremendously, in some cases exceeding other countries in the region. 
Macroeconomic stability has been maintained with an average GDP growth rate of 4-5 percent.    
 
The Government has laid out its reform agenda in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-
PRSP), which emphasizes key development objectives, including : acceleration of pro-poor economic 
growth, income and employment; strengthening of the human development capacities of the poor; 
provision of opportunities to protect the poor and vulnerable and close the gender gap in development; 
and improving governance to enhance the voice of the poor and improve Government’s effectiveness. 
1
The Government is working to develop the full PRSP, currently planned to be completed by December 
2004.  
 
Based on this strategy,
 
the Government has embarked on a program of broad economic reforms to 
improve the investment climate for private investments, enhance Government effectiveness and improve 
service delivery to the poor.  Financial sector reforms are proceeding.  The Government has continued to 
reduce losses of state-owned enterprises, proceeded with energy sector reforms, and has decided to review 
existing legislation and regulation relating to financial reporting, and this is expected to lead to 
comprehensive reforms in these areas, including a new Financial Reporting Act and Financial Reporting 
Council, to bring accounts of companies and other public interest entities in line with international 
standards.   
 
Certain reforms to strengthen governance and public management are also underway.  The Government 
has initiated the preparation of  a strategic development plan for the National Board of Revenue so as to 
enhance revenue mobilization and its efficiency and equity.   It is undertaking measures to improve 
budgetary management processes and mechanisms for greater financial accountability.  Some elements of 
merit-based promotions have been introduced in the civil service and a program of outsourcing is 
ongoing. 
 
1
The I-PRSP was completed in March 2003.   
Page  2
The effective implementation of this reform agenda requires stronger institutions for public management 
and a stronger accountability framework for the country to achieve better economic, social and service 
delivery outcomes.  
 
·
Institutions for policy formulation, implementation and monitoring need to be strengthened
.
Capacities for sector policy analysis and coordination of the various policy initiatives are in 
many cases quite limited. The link between policies and allocation of resources through the 
budget is weak and there is substantial segregation of investment and recurrent expenditure 
planning processes.  There is little focus on policies and programs and too much focus on 
individual projects.  Moreover, cumbersome procedures for project screening and evaluation are 
usually associated with major delays in implementation.
 
Monitoring is focused on large foreign 
financed investment and there is little evaluation of outcomes or impacts of policy initiatives.  
 
·
Strengthening the management of revenues remains essential to ensure fiscal balances and 
providing adequate resources to finance much needed public services.  
Bangladesh still has one 
of the lowest tax-to-GDP ratios in the world and collection of revenues remains an issue.  The 
National Board of Revenue (NBR) will need to be strengthened to meet the challenge of higher 
revenue collection. Its  organizational structure and human resource management practices will 
n
eed to be supportive of the institution’s goals and integrity will have to be restored.  Its 
information technology systems are outdated and insufficient to handle modernized tax 
administration processes.   NBR is in the process of preparing a comprehensive strategic 
development plan for modernization of the revenue administration, which will require significant 
Government commitment and technical support to be implemented.    
 
·
Strengthening accounting and auditing in the corporate sector 
will be important for improving 
the investment climate, promoting transparency in financial transactions, attracting foreign 
investments, and mobilizing domestic savings.  The recently completed Report on Observance of 
Standards and Codes (ROSC) in accounting and auditing in the corporate sector has found that 
the statutory framework for accounting, auditing and financial reporting needs to be updated.  
The regulatory framework for oversight of the accounting profession and enforcement of 
international accounting and auditing standards needs to be strengthened.  Academic and 
professional skills for supporting high quality of financial reporting will also need significant 
improvements. 
 
·
Improving the civil service practices and the functioning of the public administration 
is equally 
important.  While some modest progress has been made on staff promotion policies, many of the 
fundamental issues need to be addressed.  Low compensation, inadequate mechanisms to 
improve staff skills, rigid rules for recruitment and promotion are some of those issues.  They 
have been partly the result of complex institutional factors, and are contributing to low 
accountability, lack of motivation and inefficiency in delivering basic public services to the 
population.  Without a well functioning and adequately skilled civil service, poverty reduction 
policies, improvements in the business environment and the ambitious reform agenda  cannot be 
implemented effectively. 
 
Strengthening government’s institutional capacities to address the issues highlighted above will be 
essential for the country to advance further its economic, social and service delivery outcomes. The 
objective of the EMTAP, therefore, will be to provide the Government with the resources and the 
expertise, as necessary, to formulate and implement the needed reforms.     
 
Page  3
2. Objectives 
 
The main objective of the EMTAP will be to help strengthen core institutions for economic and public 
management and contribute to better functioning of the public administration across a broad range of 
sectors.  While supporting the main priorities of the development agenda to be outlined in the PRSP and 
reflected in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the program has some flexibility to respond to 
emerging needs during implementation.  The program will help the Government address institutional and 
other constraints that affect the sustainability of the envisaged improvements.   It is envisaged that  
EMTAP will  support activities to strengthen the capacities of agencies to achieve important objectives:     
 
·
Formulating improved macroeconomic and sectoral policies, and developing and implementing 
the sectoral reform agenda effectively;  
·
Designing programs and projects of high quality, and shifting increasingly to a sector-wide 
program approach to sector development;  
·
Strengthening institutions for revenue administration; 
·
Improving the efficiency of project implementation and recurrent spending and accountability for 
outcomes;  
·
Enhancing coverage and improving quality and targeting of public services to the poor;  
·
Improving transparency of activities of public and corporate entities and accountability for their 
performance and development outcomes, through timely reporting, effective monitoring, and 
audit and ex-post evaluation;  
·
Promoting rationalization of activities and role of the public sector vis-
à-vis the private sector in 
the economy, including efficient public-private partnership;  
·
Improving the investment climate;  and,   
·
Improving the information and communication technology in the public sector   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Structural reforms in the area of public management institutions and private sector development are 
among the essential components of the Bank’s strategy to support Bangladesh’s economic and social 
development.  The upcoming CAS, which corresponds to the duration of the EMTAP, supports three 
emerging themes:  (i) making Government more effective; (ii) enhancing business environment; and (iii) 
improving public services.  These objectives are also consistent with the Government’s strategic vision 
laid out in its I-PRSP.  Establishing strong institutions and improving the governing of the state to 
improve the investment climate, foster private sector led growth and reduce poverty is clearly stated as a 
major priority.   
Reforms in these areas are also being supported by a program of policy-based adjustment operation in the 
form of Development Support Credits (DSCs), with the first one completed last year and a second one in 
an advanced stage of preparation.  Given its engagement on a multisector policy dialogue with senior 
officials, the Bank seems to be well positioned to offer support and advice for more sustainable capacity 
building.  Linking the policy reform agenda supported by the DSC II and the technical assistance that will 
be provided through the EMTAP is expected to help address some of the policy and structural 
impediments that are necessary to realize the benefits of technical assistance. Assistance and advice in 
support of the implementation of the policy reforms supported by the DSC II is expected to help 
implement these reforms effectively.   
Page  4
The World Bank is in a position to bring a considerable amount of cross-country experience in the areas 
that are being covered by the EMTAP, in addition to the rich body of country diagnostic studies that have 
been carried out as part of its economic and sector work on Bangladesh.  
Co-financing with other donors is not being considered.  However, the Bank is coordinating  closely with 
other donor organizations, notably IMF, DFID, ADB and UNDP. The activities that will be supported by 
EMTAP will be complementary to those that are being financed by other donors.   
 
4. Description 
 
 
The Economic Management TA program is an umbrella operation that will provide technical assistance to 
support
 a
critical mass of high priority needs to facilitate the implementation of the Government’s 
economic reform program.  The World Bank is currently engaged in a dialogue with the Government on a 
medium-term program of structural reforms that will be supported by an  adjustment operation.  The 
successful implementation of these reforms requires technical expertise and capacity on a fast track basis 
that is not readily available in the Government.    
 
During project preparation the Government counterparts suggested a range of areas in which they needed 
technical assistance, including: 
o
Strengthening Government capacities for better policy formulation and implementation, 
project planning and management, and improving the functioning of the civil service and 
public administration
:
support to the Prime Minister’s Office, Cabinet Division, Ministry of 
Finance, Planning Commission/Ministry, Ministry of Establishment, Public Administration 
Training Center and other line Ministries/Divisions and agencies.   
o
Strengthening revenue administration
:
support to the National Board of Revenue to strengthen 
and modernize the tax administration. 
o
Improving the accounting and auditing standards and practices
:
support to the Ministry of 
Commerce
 
and Finance Division in implementing the recommendations of the recently 
completed ROSC in accounting and auditing in the corporate sector. 
o
Improving the information and communication technology in the Government 
(first steps 
towards e-governance)
 and developing a road map for development of ICT : 
support in 
establishing a government-wide electronic network of communication,
 
record keeping and 
archiving, and formulating a road map for development of the ICT sector. 
o
Enhancing Strategic Communication:  
assistance to promote better understanding of the 
Government’s development activities, policies, priorities and plans, and the benefits associated 
with the various reform measures, so as to help build support for reforms.   
 
Guiding principles for support under EMTAP
.
A
number of components have been developed so far 
on the basis of some 
guiding principles
,
in line with the main objectives and focus of EMTAP, and new  
proposals for approval and funding of TA activities under the project would be reviewed  on the basis of 
these principles, listed below.
2
o
Consistency with the Government’s sector strategy and policy objectives, as reflected in the I-
PRSP, and with the medium-term budgetary framework, where applicable.    
o
Support to institutional capacity building and enhancement of public sector efficiency in carrying 
out core functions, including playing a strategic role or improving service delivery, and reflection 
of a strong public sector rationale.  
2
Selection of sub-projects for funding under EMTAP in the context of the guiding principles is a covenant under the 
Development Grant Agreement for  the project.  
Page  5
o
Contribution to better utilization of human or financial resources or existing capacities or better 
management of public assets.   
o
Support to design and implementation of policy and institutional reforms in key areas. 
o
Support to high impact of public investment on growth through preparation of programs and 
projects in key areas.  
o
Promotion of efficiency of functioning of the public sector  through better communication and 
information sharing and record keeping.  
o
Promotion of better understanding of Government’s development activities, priorities and plans 
and building of support for reforms through strategic communication with other stakeholders.  
o
Reflection of strong felt needs, including analytical assessments, and consultations with relevant 
stakeholders or their involvement in project design or implementation. 
o
Based on clearly specified objectives and results, aimed to be achieved, and a monitoring and 
evaluation framework, with indicators that allow the tracking of  progress towards achieving the 
intended results.  
o
Sustainability in terms of budgetary or manpower implications, with proposal supported by 
indications of recurrent cost implications and budgetary impact, where applicable,  or in terms of 
realizing the benefits of investment in training.  
 
The EMTAP consists of 6 components that are listed below.  Component 1 is the flexible component 
under which new TA sub-projects will be reviewed for possible approval and support, based on the 
above guiding principles.  Components 2, 3, 4 and 6 have been developed while component 5 is being 
prepared by the relevant line Ministry. The cost of these 5 components  is estimated at around US$15 
million, accounting for almost 60% of the total project cost of EMTAP.  The various project 
components are described below. 
 
Component 1 (US$ 8.2 million)
.
Strengthening government capacities for better public 
management, and improving the functioning of the civil service and public administration.  
This 
component has a flexible arrangement and aims to provide support, as necessary, in areas related to 
economic and public management, in line with the priorities defined in the Government’s I-PRSP.  
Sub-project proposals that are likely to arise in various sectors during the life of the project will be 
reviewed for possible approval and support, based on the above guiding principles.   
 
Some examples of areas that may benefit from this component include, but are not limited to, 
strengthening:  (i) public administration on issues of personnel management and training; (ii) project 
preparation and management; (iii) performance monitoring of state-owned enterprises ; (iv) 
monitoring and management of external debt service liabilities owed by the Government;  (v)  
capacity of Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics for monitoring growth and employment; (vi) poverty 
monitoring and evaluation; (vii) export competitiveness and trade-related capacity building; (viii) 
land records and management; and (ix) public sector financial management.   
 
Component 2 (US$ 4.0  million
).  Modernizing revenue administration.  
This component will 
provide support to the NBR for modernizing revenue administration, and the Bank’s assistance will 
be complementary to the assistance provided by DFID on the strengthening of a large taxpayer unit. 
The component, therefore, aims to provide support for the implementation of some institutional 
changes included in the strategy that are essential to achieve NBR’s objectives, for efficient and 
enhanced revenue collection.
 
The sub-components include: 
 
·
Sub-
component 2.1.  Improving NBR’s organizational arrangements
.
·
Subcomponent 2.2.  Improve human resource management practices of the NBR
.
Page  6
·
Sub-component 2.3. Assessing the information technology needs of the revenue administration 
based on a new and modern organizational design. 
·
Sub-component 2.4.  Improving customs valuation and assessment/clearance procedures and 
techniques of risk assessment. 
·
Sub-component 2.5 : Assessment of weaknesses and capacity development needs in priority areas, 
such as VAT business procedures.
 
·
Sub-component 2.6. Strengthen the Research and Statistics Wing of the NBR.
 
·
Sub-component 2.7. Strengthen training activities for revenue administration staff. 
 
·
Sub-component 2.8 : 
Logistical support for sub-project execution by NBR
 
Component 3 (US$ 6.1  million).
Strengthening accounting and auditing practices in the corporate 
sector.  
The component will assist the Government in improving the environment for a responsive 
private sector through policy reforms and capacity building of regulatory agencies, professional 
accountancy bodies and academic institutions. The key areas of support are :  
 
·
Improving statutory framework for accounting, auditing and financial reporting, including 
adoption of international accounting and auditing standards 
·
Strengthening regulatory framework for oversight of the accountancy profession and enforcement 
of  international and auditing standards.  
·
Enhancing capacity of existing regulatory bodies involved in the capital market, banking and 
insurance 
·
Strengthening capacities of two apex accountancy profession bodies 
·
Upgrading academic and professional education and training in accounting and auditing in 
colleges and universities and professional bodies for supporting high quality financial reporting 
 
The sub-components are listed below : 
 
·
Sub-component 3.1. Preparation of the Financial Reporting Act and Design of a Financial 
Reporting Council.   
·
Sub-component 3.2. Establishment and operationalization of the Financial Reporting Council as 
an independent oversight body. 
 
·
Sub-component 3.3. Strengthen capacities of Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh. 
 
·
Sub-component 3.4. Strengthen capacities of Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of 
Bangladesh.
 
·
Sub-component 3.5. Strengthen capacities of Bangladesh Bank, Securities and Exchange 
Commission and Department of Insurance. 
 
·
Sub-component 3.6. Comprehensive program of education and training. 
 
Component 4 (US$ 4.0 million).
Improving information and communication technology (ICT) use in 
the Government.  
This component will provide the required technology infrastructure in a core group of 
government agencies in order to improve the use of ICT in the public sector, as a first step towards e-
government, and help develop an action plan for development of the ICT sector.   
 
·
Sub-component 4.1. Preparation of an e-Government strategy and road map/national action plan 
for ICT development. 
 
·
Sub-component 4.2. Establishment of an electronic communication network within Government.  
 
·
Sub-component 4.3 : Training of Government officials in ICT and promotion of ICT use in 
Government.
 
Page  7
Component 5 (US$ 0.4 million).
Strengthening communication between Government and external 
stakeholders.  
This component aims to strengthen Government’s capacity for effective communication to 
the public, promote access to information and better understanding of the Government’s activities and 
reform initiatives, including their associated benefits and costs, so as to help build the pro-reform 
constituency.   The activities include:   
 
·
Sub-component 5.1 : 
Establishment of a 
Strategic Communications Unit
 (SCU) for effective 
oversight of the Government’s communications program.    
·
Sub-component 5.2 : Strengthening of NIMCO and PIB and providing training for 
government officials on strategic communications for reforms 
through the NIMCO.   
·
Sub-component 5.3 : E-network of communication of important Government offices.
 
·
Sub-component 5.4 : Enhancing communication capacity in some important offices.  
 
·
Sub-component 5.5 : Additional activities to support strategic communication for reforms, to 
be agreed upon with the Government.
 
Component 6 (US 0.16 million)
Logistical and consultancy support to the World Bank Branch-1 of 
ERD in the central management of the EMTAP.  
This is to provide logistical support and short-term 
consultancy services to the above branch of ERD in coordinating and managing the overall 
implementation of EMTAP efficiently.  It includes: 
·
Sub-component 6.1 : 
Logistical support to the central management of EMTAP.  
·
Sub-component 6.2 : 
Workshops, seminars and other dissemination activities. 
·
Sub-component 6.3 :  
Short-term and needs-based procurement consultancy services and 
independent post audit of procurement on sample basis by chartered accountancy firms. 
 
5. Financing 
Financing Plan (US $m) 
Source Local 
Foreign 
Total 
Recipient 
IDA Grant for Poorest Country 
Others 
Total 
1.96 
7.84 
 
9.80 
3.04 
12.16 
 
15.20 
5.00 
20.00 
 
25.00 
6. Implementation 
 
The implementation of EMTAP is mainstreamed within the Government’s existing systems, involving the 
Government officials and staff directly.  The project will be managed by the Economic Relations Division 
of  the Ministry of Finance.   The World Bank Branch-1 of ERD will be responsible for the overall 
management of EMTAP.  The National Board of Revenue will be the executing agency for the tax 
modernization component. The Ministry of Commerce and Finance Division will be executing the 
component relating to improvements in accounting and auditing.  The Ministry of Science and 
Information and Communication Technology will be executing the component for development of ICT.  
The Ministry of Information will be executing the component relating to strengthening strategic 
communication on reforms.  The World Bank Branch-1 of ERD will be executing the sub-project to 
support overall management of EMTAP.    
An inter-ministerial  Steering Committee with the following functions will be constituted :  (i) assessing 
the priority of the TA sub-projects and related activities, in terms of consistency with the strategic 
framework and priority objectives of the sector strategy presented in the I-PRSP; (ii) monitoring the 
Page  8
policy aspects and implications of the sub-projects supported under EMTAP; and (iii) monitoring 
achievement of objectives and outcomes of EMTAP, and initiating adequate measures to effectively 
address constraints that might be affecting the efficient implementation of EMTAP and the full realization 
of expected results.   
The existing process that the Government has in place for project processing and approval would be 
followed (see annex 6). 
3
Implementing agencies would have informal consultations with the World Bank 
at the initial stages of Technical Assistance Project Proforma (TAPP) preparation.   There will, however, 
be more intensive scrutiny and a lot of attention on quality for TA sub-projects seeking funding under 
EMTAP.  The Finance Division would play an important role in reviewing sub-project proposals, with 
both Development Wing and Budget Wing providing their feedback.   In addition, the Bank’s feedback on 
the TA proposals and its “no objection” on the final TAPP will be needed in order to qualify for funding 
under EMTAP 
 
Disbursements and withdrawal of funds from the IDA grant shall be made through a Special Deposit 
Account in US dollar to be maintained in Bangladesh Bank, and this will be operated by the World Bank 
Branch-1 of ERD.    
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Ensuring sustainability in institutional capacity building projects has always been a challenge not only in 
Bangladesh but several other countries where the Bank has provided assistance.  In the case of EMTAP 
there are some promising indications.  Close monitoring of and support to the implementation of the 
program by the Government entities would, however, be vital for its success.   
 
First, there seems to be evidence of the Government’s commitment to most of the planned and potential 
activities to be supported under the project and recognition about the need to scale up  reforms and public 
spending in priority areas.  The Finance Minister has requested Bank assistance on strengthening tax 
administration. The Ministries of Finance and Commerce and other stakeholders have endorsed the 
Report on Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) in accounting and auditing and its suggested 
reforms. The Ministry of Science and Information and Communications Technology has expressed 
interest in Bank support in ICT development. The Ministry of Information has expressed keen interest in 
preparing the component relating to strengthening of strategic communication.  The Cabinet Division has 
expressed its interest in participating in the program. The Principal Secretary has requested donors, 
including the Bank, for assistance in training.  The Ministry of Establishment and Public Administration 
Training Centre have expressed interest in Bank support in training.   The Cabinet Committee on Good 
Governance and Administrative Reforms has recently decided to pursue reforms in a number of areas, 
including training and ICT development.   
Second, the unallocated Component 1 will be implemented on the basis of sub-project proposals by the 
Government, subject to an agreed screening and evaluation process, taking into account some guiding 
principles for support under EMTAP.  
Third, stakeholders’ ownership of the TA activities will be vital for their success.  Sub-projects are being 
prepared in a participatory manner, involving the relevant stakeholders, including advisory committees, in 
a
number of areas.  
Political commitment to carry out the policy, institutional, legal and regulatory reforms linked to the 
actions to be supported under the project will be needed to realize the full benefits of the activities to be 
3
The process of TAPP review/approval is expected to be streamlined and the new system is expected to be introduced in FY05. 
 
Page  9
supported.  Activities that are in response to Government request or explicit interest, and in line with its 
priorities, are being considered for funding.  In the area of training, for instance, the Bank will be 
involved in vetting of nomination of candidates for training supported under EMTAP.  The environment 
has improved as a result of a new training policy and decision to rotate officers within each of their 
relevant clusters of Ministries/sectors.   
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The Bank has provided a number of technical assistance/investment projects in the past.  Their 
implementation experience has been extensively documented through case studies prepared in the context 
of the Institutional and Governance Review issued by the Bank in 2002 as well as ICRs and OED reports.  
Factors that have negatively affected some of the project outcomes are related both to the Government’s 
performance as well as project design.   
First, successful project outcomes have not been achieved and sustained partly because some of the 
underlying institutional weaknesses have not been addressed as part of project design.   In cases when 
institutional weaknesses have been recognized, the Government has often not followed up with 
institutional changes that would have been crucial to realize the benefits of TA projects.   Second, 
mobilizing beneficiaries in project design would have proved useful for mobilizing public opinion and 
generating demand and accountability for certain reforms.  Third, project implementation has been 
slowed down by a number of factors :  (i) overly specified projects that have not kept up with the 
changing needs and environment in the country; (ii) difficulties of project management and coordination; 
(iii) limited capacity to prepare worthwhile project proposals;  (iv) problems of sustainability of project 
benefits, such as ineffective use of trained manpower and inadequate follow up on TA outputs.     
 
These issues are to be addressed through the project design and implementation.   The EMTAP is linked 
with the upcoming DSC II adjustment operation, which aims to address some of the policy and 
institutional weaknesses associated with the activities to be supported under the TA.  In addition, guiding 
principles will be used for preparation and approval of sub-project proposals to be financed under the 
flexible component of the project.   Other measures that will help address sustainability concerns include : 
(i) flexibility in project design;  (ii) establishment of a central project management arrangement, with 
regular Government officials in charge of project management;  (iii) establishment of an inter-ministerial 
Steering Committee with an oversight role; and: (iv) support for preparation of better project proposals, if 
necessary.   
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(OP
/BP
/GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (OP
/BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP
/BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (OP
/BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (OP
/BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP
/BP
/GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (OP
/BP
/GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' 
claims on the disputed areas
 
Page  10
10. Contact 
points 
 
Alma Kanani, Senior Economist (HQ) 
Tel: (202) 473-7659;  Fax: (202) 522-0356  
Email: Akanani@worldbank.org
,
Or  
 
Syed Nizamudin, Senior Economist (Bangladesh Country Office) 
Tel : (880-2) 966-9301-8 ;  Fax : (880-2) 861-3220  
Snizamudin@worldbank.org
11. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: 
http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Or 
 
Public Information Centre Bangladesh 
 
The World Bank Office Dhaka 
 
3 A Paribagh, Dhaka1000, Tel 9669301-8
 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/bd
 
