Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB751 
Project Name 
Economic Management TA Program (EMTAP) 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General Public Sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P083890 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMY 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [X] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 8, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 1, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 22, 2004 
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Government of Bangladesh has embarked on a broad economic and sectoral reform agenda including 
macroeconomic management, state enterprise and financial sector reform, energy sector reforms, as well 
as a range of reforms to improve revenue administration, public expenditure and financial accountability.  
These reform areas have been highlighted in the government’s Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Program (I-PRSP) and are being supported by the International Financial Institutions and bilateral donors.   
 
This reform agenda requires stronger institutions for policy management and a better functioning of the 
civil service and public administration for the country to achieve better economic, social and service 
delivery outcomes.  
 
Strengthening institutions for policy formulation, implementation and monitoring 
is essential at a time 
when the government is undertaking strategic policy initiatives such as the one for poverty reduction and 
is trying to implement ambitious structural reforms.  Despite progress made in selected areas, stronger 
institutions for policy formulation, implementation and monitoring will yield much better outcomes.  The 
Government needs better coordination among various policy initiatives and sector policy analysis.. The 
link between policies and allocation of resources through the budget needs to be strengthened. There is a 
substantial segregation of investment and recurrent expenditure planning processes.  There should be 
more emphasis on policy programs than on individual projects.  Moreover, cumbersome procedures for 
project screening and evaluation impede implementation.
 
Monitoring is focused on large foreign financed 
investment and evaluation of outcomes or impacts of policy initiatives is scanty. 
 
Improving the civil service practices and the functioning of the public administration 
is equally important.  
While some modest progress has been made on staff promotions, many of the fundamental issues need to 
be addressed.  Low compensation, inadequate mechanisms to improve staff skills, rigid rules for 
recruitments and promotions are some of those issues.  They have been partly the result of complex 
institutional factors, and are contributing to low accountability, lack of motivation and inefficiency in 
delivering basic public services to the population.  Without a well functioning and adequately skilled civil 
Page  2
 
 
service, poverty reduction policies, improvements in the business environment and the ambitious reform 
agenda  will falter in their implementation .     
 
The Government’s strategic vision with regard to these issues is laid out in its I-PRSP.  Establishing strong 
institutions and improving the governing of the state to improve the investment climate, foster private 
sector led growth and reduce poverty are clearly stated as major priorities.  The upcoming Country 
Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the World Bank, currently under preparation, also seems to supports  three 
emerging themes:  (i) making Government more effective; (ii) enhancing business environment; and (iii) 
improving public services.  The EMTAP aims to enhance institutional capacities in these key areas, in line 
with these CAS objectives.   
 
Government’s commitment to improved institutional capacities is manifested by various ongoing efforts 
and initiatives.  As noted, the government has already embarked on efforts to enhance macroeconomic 
stability, improve budgetary management by moving towards a medium term expenditure framework,  
improve revenue administration by strengthening customs administration and income tax,  reform 
accounting  and auditing functions, emphasize training in the public administration, improve promotion 
practices in the civil service and consider more serious personnel management reforms.  These reform 
efforts, however, need to be more coordinated and strategic aided by appropriate capacity to make them 
truly sustainable  
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The main objective of the EMTA program will be to help strengthen core economic management 
capacities and contribute to better policy management and better functioning of the public administration 
across a broad range of sectors.  While supporting the main priorities of the development agenda to be 
outlined in the PRSP and reflected in the CAS, the design of this program will include some flexibility in 
order to respond to emerging needs during implementation.  The program will help the Government look 
into the institutional and other constraints that affect the sustainability of the envisaged improvements.   
The preparation of the EMTA is planned to proceed in parallel with the on-going reform initiatives of the 
Government to support the capacity enhancement needs associated with reforms.  It is envisaged that the 
proposed EMTA program will aim to support activities that will strengthen the capacity of agencies to:     
 
• 
formulate improved macroeconomic and sectoral policies, and develop and implement the 
sectoral reform agenda effectively;  
• 
design programs and projects of high quality, and shift increasingly to a sector-wide program 
approach to sector development;  
• 
improve institutions for revenue collection and administration; 
• 
improve the efficiency of project implementation and recurrent spending and accountability for 
outcomes;  
• 
enhance coverage and improve quality and targeting of public services to the poor;  
• 
improve transparency of activities of public and corporate entities and accountability for their 
performance and development outcomes, through timely reporting, effective monitoring, and 
audit and ex-post evaluation;  
• 
promote rationalization of activities and role of the public sector vis-à-vis the private sector in the 
economy, including efficient public-private partnership;  
• 
improve the investment climate;  and,   
• 
improve the information technology in the public sector (e-governance elements).  
 
Better policies and institutions are likely to help Government better meet the objectives of the 
PRSP. 
Page  3
 
 
 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The World Bank is currently in a dialogue with the government on a medium term program of structural 
reforms that will be supported by an IDA credit. The EMTA program is envisaged as an umbrella 
operation that will provide technical assistance to high priority needs in order to facilitate the 
implementation of the Government’s reform program.     
 
The Government  suggested a range of areas in which they needed technical assistance, including: 
 
• 
Strengthening government capacities for better policy formulation and 
implementation, project planning and improving the functioning of the civil service 
and public administration
:  support to the PM’s office, MoF, Planning Commission, 
Ministry of Establishment, Public Administration Training Center and other line ministries.   
• 
Support for strengthening revenue administration
: support to the National Bureau of 
Revenues. 
• 
Support for improving the accounting and auditing standards and practices
:  support 
to MoF
 
and Ministry of Commerce
 
in implementing the recommendations of the recently 
completed ROSC. 
• 
Support for improving the information technology in the Government (first steps 
towards e-governance): 
support to PM’s office and Ministry of Information in establishing 
a government wide electronic network of communication,
 
record keeping and archiving. 
• 
Strategic Communication:  
assistance to a country wide effort to create a constituency that 
would support reforms and raise awareness on the benefits associated with  various 
structural measures.   
 
    
 
The project includes a certain degree of flexibility mainly associated with the first component.  Sub-
project proposals that are likely to arise in various sectors during the life of the project will be reviewed 
and supported, if they meet policy priorities and certain criteria agreed in advance with the Government.  
The Government has expressed preference for this approach given their
 
previous experience with TA 
projects that have been overly specified and not able to adjust to changing needs and priorities over the 
project cycle.  .  
 
Co-financing with other donors involved in TA is not being considered but close coordination, notably 
with DFID, ADB, IMF and UNDP is planned.  
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
No safeguard policies apply to this program 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION GRANT FOR 
POOREST COUNTRIES 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Page  4
 
 
Contact: Alma Kanani (HQ), Syed Nizamudin (Bangladesh Country Office) 
Title: Sr Economists 
Tel: (202) 473-7659/   
Fax:  
Email: 
Akanani@worldbank.org
, 
Snizamudin@worldbank.org
 
 
 
