                                                   Documentof
                                                The World Bank


                                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                       Report No: 28993-BD




                                  PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                        ONA

                                             PROPOSEDGRANT

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 13.8 MILLION
                                    (US$20 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                      TO THE

                            THEPEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OFBANGLADESH

                                                      FOR AN

           ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM


                                                   May 20,2004




PovertyReductionand EconomicManagement
South Asia Region

This document has arestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2004)
                               Tk59.24 = US$1
                              US$1.45 = SDR 1

                                    FISCALYEAR
                                    July 1-June 30

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     Asian Development Bank
ADP     Annual Development Program
BBS     Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
BPATC   Bangladesh Public Administration Training Centre
C&AG    Comptroller and Auditor General
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPTU    Central Procurement Technical Unit
DFID    Department for InternationalDevelopment
DSC     Development Support Credit
DSL     Debt Service Liability
DSPEC   Departmental Special Project EvaluationCommittee
EMTAP   Economic Management Technical AssistanceProgram
ERD     Economic Relations Division
FAPAD   Foreign Aided Projects Audit Directorate
FBS     FixedBudget Selection
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment
FM      Financial Management
FMRP    Financial Management ReformProgram
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
FMS     FinancialManagement Specialist
FRC     Financial Reporting Council
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
m       Human Resource
IAS     InternationalAccounting Standards
IBRD    InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAB    Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh
ICB     InternationalCompetitive Bidding
ICMAB   Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Bangladesh
ICT     Informationand CommunicationTechnology
IDA     IntemationalDevelopment Association
IDF     InstitutionalDevelopment Fund
IFC     InternationalFinance Corporation
IFRS    InternationalFinancial ReportingStandards
ILO     InternationalLabor Organization
IMED    ImplementationMonitoring and EvaluationDivision
M F     InternationalMonetary Fund
I-PRSP  InterimPoverty ReductionStrategy Paper
ISA     InternationalStandardson Auditing
LCS     Least-Cost Selection
LCG     Local Consultative Group

   MDGs     MillenniumDevelopment Goals                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
   M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
   MIS      Management Information System
   MOC      Ministry of Commerce
   MOE      Ministry of Establishment
   M O I    Ministry of Information
   MOSICT   Ministry of Science and Information and Communication Technology
   NBR      National Boardof Revenue
   NCB      National Competitive Bidding
   NEC      NationalEconomic Council
   NIMCO    National Instituteof Mass Communications
   PCN      Project Concept Note
   PIB      Press Institute of Bangladesh
   PIC      Public InformationCentre
   PID      Project InformationDocument
   PID      Press InformationDepartment
   PRGF     Poverty Reductionand Growth Facility
   PRS      Poverty ReductionStrategy
   PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
   QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
   RFP      Requestfor Proposals
   RJRA     Reforms inRevenue Administration
   scu      Strategic Communications Unit
   ROSC     Report on Observanceof Standards and Codes
   SEC      Securities andExchange Commission
   SME      Small and MediumEnterprises
   SOE      Statementof Expenditure
   SOEs     State OwnedEnterprises
   SPEC     Special Project Evaluation Committee
   sss      Single-Source Selection
   TA       Technical Assistance
   TAPP     TechnicalAssistance ProjectProforma
   TORS     Terms of Reference
   TTCs     Technical Training Centres
   UNDB     UnitedNationsDevelopmentBusiness
   UNDP     UnitedNationsDevelopment Program
   USAlD    United States Agency for IntemationalDevelopment
   VAT      Value Added Tax




                       Vice President:   Praful C. Patel
                    Country Director:    Christine I.Wallich
                       Sector Director   Sadiq Ahmed
                     Sector Manager:     Kapil Kapoor
                 Task TeamLeaders:       Alma Kanani and Syed Nizamuddin



This document has a restricted distributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                                             BANGLADESH
                  Economic Management Technical Assistance Program (EMTAP)

                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS

Cover Sheet

A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE.....................................................................................                                      1
1.     Country and sector issues.................................................................................................................           1
2.    Rationalefor Bank involvement......................................................................................................                   2
3.    Higher levelobjectivesto whichthe projectcontributes .................................................................                                3

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION....................................................................................................................                   3
1.    Lendinginstrument..........................................................................................................................           3
2.     Projectdevelopment objectiveandkey indicators...........................................................................                             3
3.    Projectcomponents..........................................................................................................................           6
4.     Lessons learnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign.......................................................................                                12

C. IMPLEMENTATION ..........................................................................................................................                12
1.     Partnership arrangements...............................................................................................................              12
2.     Institutionalandimplementationarrangements.............................................................................                              13
3.     Monitoring andevaluationof outcomes/results.............................................................................                             14
4.     Sustainability..................................................................................................................................     14
5.     Critical risks andpossible controversialaspects............................................................................                          15
6.     Grant conditions andcovenants.....................................................................................................                   16

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY...................................................................................................................                     16
1.     Economicandfinancial analyses...................................................................................................                     16
2.     Technical........................................................................................................................................    17
3.     Fiduciary........................................................................................................................................    17
4.     Social.............................................................................................................................................. 18
5.     Environment...................................................................................................................................       18
6.     Safeguard policies..........................................................................................................................         19
7.     Policyexceptions andreadiness..................................................................................................... 19

ANNEX 1:        COUNTRY AND SECTOR OR PROGRAMBACKGROUND.....................................                                                                21
ANNEX 2:        MAJOR RELATED PROJECTSFINANCED BY THE BANKAND/OTHER
                AGENCIES.......................................................................................................................             24
ANNEX 3:        RESULTSFRAMEWORK AND MONITORING..........................................................                                                   26
ANNEX 4:        DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION.......................................................................... 32
ANNEX 5:        PROJECT COSTS ............................................................................................................                  49
ANNEX 6:        IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS.....................................................................                                             50
ANNEX 7:        FINANCIALMANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS............52
ANNEX 8:        PROCUREMENT.............................................................................................................                    57
ANNEX 9:        ECONOMICAND FINANCIALANALYSES ...............................................................                                               64
ANNEX 10:       SAFEGUARDPOLICY ISSUES.....................................................................................                                 65
ANNEX 11:       PROJECTPROCESSING................................................................................................                           66
ANNEX 12:       DOCUMENTSINTHE PROJECTFILE.........................................................................                                         67
ANNEX 13:                                                                                                                                                   68
                COUNTRYAT A GLANCE............................................................................................
                STATEMENT OFLOANS AND CREDITS...................................................................
ANNEX 14:                                                                                                                                                   70
MAP:            IBRD 24206R1


                                        BANGLADESH

       ECONOMIC MANAGEMENTTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROGRAM(EMTAP)

                             PROJECT APPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                          SOUTHASIA
                                             SASPR




Sector Director: Sadiq Ahmed                   Themes: Economic Management (S)
SectorManager :Kapil Kapoor                    Environmental screeningcategory : Not Required
                                               Safeguardscreening category : Not Required



                                      ProjectFinancingData
[ ] Loan   [ 3 Credit  [ XI Grant [ ] Guarantee  [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Project Cost (US$m.): 25.0              Cofinancing: None
Total Bank Financing (US$m.): 20.0

                                      FinancingPlan(US$m)


Recipient
IDAGrant for PoorestCountry
Others

Projectdevelopment objectiveRef. PAD B.2

The main objective of the EMTA programwill be to strengthen institutional capacities incore areas of
xonomic and public managementand contribute to better policy management and improved functioning
ifthe public administration and the corporate sector.
Project description Ref. PAD B.3

The programaims to strengthen institutional capacities and support the design and implementation of
?olicyand institutional reforms inkey areas, including:

       Strengthening Government's capacities toformulate, implement and monitor policies, through
       strategic policy formulation and resource allocation processes and improving thefunctioning of
       the civil service and public administration;
       Strengthening Government's ability to mobilize revenueseffectively and efficiently through a
       betterfinctioning of the tax administration;
       Strengthening corporate governancethrough improved compliance with auditing and accounting
       standards inthe corporate sector and increasedtransparency infinancial reporting;
       Improving functioning of Government through enhanceduse of information and communication
       technologies by making use of electronic communication, and increasing transparency and the
       exchange of information between Government and its citizens through the use of websites and
       internet portals;
       Promotingunderstanding of and support for economic reforms by strengthening the
        communication strategy relatingto the Government's development activities, policies, priorities
        and plans.

Which safeguard policiesare triggered, if any?None Ref. PAD D.6 and Annex 10
Significant, non-standard conditions,if any, for :
Board presentation: None Ref. PAD C.6
Grant effectiveness Ref. PAD C.6
    0   Government approval of the TAPP for the sub-project to be executedby the World Bank Branch-
        1ofERDfor supporting the central managementofEMTAP.
    0   Approval and implementation of proposal to augment capacity of the World Bank Branch-1 of
        ERD,inline with agreed staffing, throughposting of adequateGovernment personnel with
        relevant experience, including financial management and procurement, and provision of necessary
        accommodation and administrative support
    0   Constitution of a Steering Committee for EMTAPwith TORSacceptable to the Bank.

                           A.      STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE


1.       Country and sector issues

Bangladesh has maintained steady economic growth since the early nineties and has made considerable
improvements inincome poverty and social indicators. Social indicators, such as life expectancy, literacy
and enrolment rates, have improved tremendously, in some cases exceeding other countries in the region.
Macroeconomic stability has been maintained with an average GDP growth rate of 4-5 percent. More
recently, export growth has helped sustain economic activity, and coupled with strong inflows of
remittances, have boosted reserves. The exchange rate regime was liberalized from a managed to a
floating systeminlate FY03.

The Government has laid out its reform agenda in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-
PRSP)', which emphasizes key development objectives, including : acceleration of pro-poor economic
growth, income and employment; strengthening of the human development capacities of the poor;
provision of opportunities to protect the poor and vulnerable and close the gender gap in development;
and improving governance to enhance the voice of the poor and improve Government's effectiveness.
The Government i s working to develop the full PRSP, currently planned to be completed by December
2004.

Based on this strategy the Government has embarked on a program of broad economic and structural
reforms to improve the investment climate for private investments, enhancegovernment effectiveness and
improve service delivery to the poor. Financial sector reforms have proceeded with management teams
secured for the nationalized commercial banks. The Government has continued to reduce losses of state-
owned enterprises, proceeded with important energy reforms, and i s planning to review legislation
relating to accounting and auditing, that is expected to lead to the introduction of a new Financial
Reporting Act to bringcompany accounts inline with international accounting and auditing standards.

Certain reforms to strengthen governance and public management are also underway. The Government
has initiated the preparation of a strategic development plan to reform the NBR, which, if implemented,
will not only enhance revenues but also improve the equity and predictability of the tax system for both
businesses and individuals.      They are also pressing ahead with measures to improve the budget
managementprocess and mechanisms for greater financial accountability. Some elements of merit based
promotions have been introduced to improve meritocracy in the civil service and a program of
outsourcing i s ongoing.

The effective implementation of this reform agenda requires stronger institutions for public management
and a stronger accountability framework for the country to achieve better economic, social and service
delivery outcomes.

a        Institutionsfor policy formulation, implementation and monitoring need to be strengthened.
Capacities for sector policy analysis and coordination of the various policy initiatives are in many cases
quite limited. The link between policies and allocation of resources through the budget is weak and there
i s a substantial segregation of investment and recurrent expenditure planning processes. There i s little
focus on policies and programs and too much focus on individual projects. Moreover, cumbersome
procedures for project screening and evaluation are usually associated with major delays in
implementation. Monitoring i s only focused on large foreign financed investment and there i s very little
evaluation of outcomes or impacts of policy initiatives.

  I-PRSPwas completedinMarch2003.

0       Strengthening the management of revenues remains essential to ensure fiscal balances and
providing adequate resources to finance much-needed public services. Bangladesh still has one of the
lowest tax-to-GDP ratios in the world and collection of revenues remains an issue. The NBR is not
equipped to meet the challenge of higher revenue collection, and its organizational structure and human
resource management practices are not supportive of the institution's goals, harassment of tax payers is
prevalent and integrity needs to be restored. Its information technology systems are outdated and
insufficient to handle modem tax administration processes.        NBR is in the process of preparing a
strategic development plan for modernization of the revenue administration, and its implementation will
require significant political and technical support.


0        Strengthening accounting and auditing in the corporate sector will be important for improving
the investment climate, promoting transparency in financial transactions, attracting foreign investments,
and mobilizing domestic savings. The recently completed ROSC on accounting and audit inthe corporate
sector found that the statutory framework for accounting, auditing and financial reporting i s outdated.
The regulatory framework for oversight of the accounting profession and enforcement of international
accounting and auditing standards needs to be strengthened. Academic and professional skills for
supporting highquality of financial reporting will also need significant improvements.


0        Improving the civil service practices and the finctioning of the public administration has been
one of the Government's objectives in the recent years. While some modest progress has been made on
staff promotion policies, many of the fundamental problems remain. Low compensation, inadequately
skilled staff, and rigid rules for recruitment and promotion are some of the features that characterize
Bangladesh's civil service. They have been partly the result of complex institutional factors, and are
contributing to low accountability, inadequate motivation and much inefficiency in delivering basic
public services to the population. Without a well functioning and adequately skilled civil service, poverty
reduction policies, improvements in the business environment and the ambitious reform agenda that lies
aheadcan not be implemented effectively.

Strengthening Government's institutional capacities to address the issues highlighted above will be
essential for the country to further advance its economic, social and service delivery outcomes. The
objective of the EMTAP, therefore, will be to provide the Government with the resources and the
expertise, as necessary, to formulate and implement the neededreforms.


2. Rationalefor Bank involvement

Structural reforms in the area of public management institutions and private sector development are
among the essential components of the Bank's strategy to support Bangladesh's economic and social
development. The upcoming CAS, which corresponds to the duration of the EMTAP, supports three
emerging themes: (i)    making Government more effective; (ii)  enhancing business environment; and (iii)
improving public services. These objectives are also consistent with the Government's strategic vision,
laid out in its I-PRSP. Establishing strong institutions and improving the governing of the state to
improve the investment climate, foster private sector-led growth and reduce poverty i s clearly stated as a
major priority.

Reforms in these areas are also being supported by a program of policy-based adjustment operations in
theform of DSCs, with the first one completed last year and a second one under preparation. Given its
engagement on a multi-sector policy dialogue with senior officials, the Bank seems to be well positioned
to offer support and advice for more sustainable capacity building. Linking the policy reform agenda
supported by the DSC I1 and the technical assistance that will be provided through the EMTAP i s
expected to help address some of the policy and structural impediments that are necessary to realize the


                                                  2

benefits of technical assistance. Providing assistance and advice in support of the implementation of the
policy reforms supported by the DSC I1is expected to help implement these reforms effectively.

The World Bank i s also in a position to bring a considerable amount of cross-country experience in the
areas that are being covered by the EMTAP, in addition to the richbody of country diagnostic studies that
have been carried out as part of its economic and sector work on Bangladesh (Annex 1).

Co-financing with other donors is not being considered. However, the Bank is coordinating closely with
other donor organizations that are offering advice and support in the areas to be covered by the EMTAP,
such as IMF,DFID, ADB and UNDP (Annex 2 ). The activities that will be supported by the EMTAP
will be complementary to those that are being financed by other donors. In addition, the proposed
operation will complement other donor activities by taking a more integrated view of the economic
management institutions, both at the center of the Government and the line agencies. This might prove
usefulinproviding leverageto individual interventions that have been unsuccessfulinaddressingspecific
elements of the overall reformagenda.


3.      Higher levelobjectivesto which the project contributes

The overall objective to which the EMTAP is expected to contribute i s to enhance the governing of the
state in order to improve the investment climate, foster private sector led-growth, and improve service
delivery to the citizens. It i s expected that the support that will be given through the EMTAP will
strengthen Government's institutional capacities for more effective public management and
implementation of economic reforms. The above objective i s fully in line with the upcoming CAS
objectives of promoting a more effective Government, improved investment climate and public service
delivery. It i s also consistent with the I-PRSP and should help the Government prepare, implement and
monitor its economic development and poverty reductions objectives.


                                      B.      PROJECTDESCRIPTION


1.      Lendinginstrument

The proposed operation i s envisaged to be financed by an IDA Technical Assistance Grant for Poorest
Countries. In view of the Bank's decision to provide grant financing equivalent to 20% of total IDA
commitments inFY04, the Government has expresseda preference for grant financing for the purpose of
funding this TA project. Given that the project's planned support to long-term investment in institution
buildingand humancapital is apriority area, the Bankhasdecided to accept the Government's request.

2.      Project development objective and key indicators

The main objective of the EMTAPwill be to strengthen core economic and public management capacities
and contribute to better policy management and better functioning of the public administration and the
corporate sector. The program aims to strengthen institutional capacities and support the design and
implementationof policy and institutional reforms inkey areas, including the following :

    Strengthening Government's capacities to formulate, implement and monitor policy and institutional
    reformsthroughbetter functioning of public management institutions;
    Strengthening Government's ability to mobilize revenues effectively and efficiently through a better
    functioning of the tax administration;


                                                 3

0   Strengthening corporate governance through improved compliance with accounting and auditing
    standardsinthe corporate sector and increasedtransparency infinancial reporting;
0   Improving functioning of Government through enhanced use of information and communication
    technologies by making use of electronic communication, and increasing transparency and the
    exchange of information between Government and its citizens through the use of websites and
    internet portals;
    Promoting better public understanding of and support for the Government's reform agenda by
    strengthening the communication strategy relating to the Government's development activities,
    policies, priorities and plans.

The achievement of these objectives will be monitored through some key results indicators summarized
below.2 Given the broad nature of the program supported by EMTAP, indicators are being grouped in
two levels -- those that relate to the core reforms in specific areas, and those related to additional reforms
that will needto be undertaken.


                                      First level indicators relatedto core
                                                              -                       Secondlevel indicators: additional
                                       activities supportedby the program             activitiessupported by the program

 administration
                                     SBR de\elops a Strategic Development Plan,        Adoption of a new human resource
                                     taking into account good practice and             strategy by NBR by 2006.
                                     stakeholder    vietbs,   including    a  new      NBR implements a phased shift
                                     organizational structure that i s     moving      towards      a    broadly     functional
                                     towards functional lines                          organizational design, beginning with
                                                                                       a hybrid approach (functional and tax-
                                                                                       by -tax) in the transitional period, with
                                                                                       the appointment of new Member for
                                                                                       corporate strategy and humanresource
                                                                                       functions, so as to create an enabling
                                                                                       institutional environment for better
                                                                                       management,       accountability,    and
                                                                                       compliance.

                                     Adoption by the NBR of a comprehensive             ICT function institutionalized and
 Communication Technology            ICT strategy by end-2005, encompassing            made         sustainable         through
                                     general principles and specific choices on        establishment of a budget line entry
                                     platforms, connectivity, use of ICT to submit     for ICT maintenance for NBR and
                                     tax declarations and customs clearance            Departmentsunder its control.
                                     documents and policies on contracting out          Introduction of formalized ICT
                                     maintenanceof ICT infrastructure.                  posts inNBR and Departmentsunder
                                     NBR develops the infrastructure for improved       its control.
                                     communication      and information     sharing
                                     within the organization by adopting an ICT
                                     strategy and MIS, based on a needs
                                     assessment, consistent with      its improved
                                     functional design
                                     NBR strengthens customs valuation and
                                     assessmentlclearance procedures, which aim
                                     to    improve      efficiency   in    customs
                                     administration, as measured by the reduction
                                     in customs processing time and costs to
                                     importers and exporters, monitored on a
                                     monthly basis, for Chttagong and Dhaka.



 Results indicators will be further developed with the initiation of work for each component and the preparation of Inception
Reportsfrom the teams that will be working ineachone of them (see sectionon Monitoringand Evaluation).


                                                          4

                                   First level indicators related to core
                                                         -                       I Second level indicators: additional
                                   activities supported by the program             activitiessupported by the program
                                 Develop capacity to use PSI summary
                                 statistics and ASYCUDA-based data to
                                 undertake     risk   assessment-based    audit
                                 selectionprocessesfor customsinspection.
Trainingcapacity of NBR          Curricula of the NBR's training academies
                                 improved by focusing training on priority
                                                                  1




                                 areas, including valuation, accounting and
                                 auditing, for the three major taxes, and
                                 improvement in training coverage,            as
                                 measuredby the increase in share of revenue
                                 administrationstafftrained in priority areas.
                                 Number of courses conducted in FY05,
                                 FY06, and FY07 by the two training
                                 academies,       based     on       curriculum
                                 recommendations of        the   TA-supported
                                 assessment for curriculumdevelopment;
                                 Number of officials receiving"in service" or
                                 post-initial   training  in priority     areas,
                                 including auditing, monitored separately for
                                 the two taxationcadres.

ResearchandStatistics            Coverage and quality of fiscal statistics and
                                 research improved, as measured by the
                                 increase in the capacity of the Research and
                                 Statistics Wing to provide answers to policy-
                                 relevant questions, evaluate tax policy
                                 alternatives-andprovidetax               ~-
                                                             intelligence.


Legal,     regulatory    and     The legal and regulatory framework for             Establishment of an independen
institutional -framework for     improved financial reporting established, as       regulatory body for accounting an(
accounting, financialreporting   measured by the enactment of a Financial           auditing practices and its effectivt
and auditing in the corporate     Reporting Act (FRA),        which includes        functioning,   consistent  with   tht
sector                           provisions for IASIIFRS and ISA, as well as        provisionsof the FRA.
                                 provisions for the establishment of an
                                 independent regulatory body for accounting
                                  andauditing standards in the corporatesector,
                                  which    will   be   responsible for      their
                                  enforcementand monitoring.
Capacitybuilding of              Capacity of ICAB enhanced, as measured by          Adoption of improved policies an(
accountancyandauditing           the satisfactory implementationof a twinning       practices related to examinations
professionbodies                  arrangement       with    an      intemational    training and licensing, leading to a
                                 professional accountancy body and adequate         increase   in the     proportion   o
                                 coverage of IASIIFRS and ISA in its                successful examinees, and number of
                                 curriculum.                                        newly qualified chartered accountants
                                                                                    graduatingevery year.
Education and training on Teaching cumcula for universities and colleges
~~                                                                                  Improved educational and training
accounting and auditing in improved to include IASIIFRS and ISA, and                programs in accounting and auditing,
colleges anduniversities      number of qualified teachers increased, as            leading to an increase in college and
                              measured by the increase in the number of             university   graduates   trained   in
                              trainers that complete successfully both foreign      IASIIFRSand ISA.
                              andlocalprogramof trainingof trainers.
Improving information and communication technologies in Government by making use of electronic communication

NationalICT strategy             The establishment of a coherent framework
                                 for ICT by developing and adopting an e-
                                 Governmentstrategy.
                                 Establishmentof aroadmapfor development
                                 of the ICTsector by December2005.



                                                       5

                                             communication.                         o f Class Icadre civil servants using


                                  correspondence, such as minutes o f meetings,




                                  review and end o f the




                               Strategic Communication Unit (SCU) in the


                                strategic communication.
 Integrated    Communication    Establishing links between the SCU and central    Integration o f the strategic
 System                         Government      offices, such   as the    Prime   communication unit and all relevant sites
                                Minister's office, Ministry of Information, and of Ministries and agencies under one
                              I Ministries o f Finance and Planning, with         network for better coordination.
                                communication demands on a day-to-day basis.     I
 Central project managementby World Bank Branch-I of ERD

                               Effectiveness o f central management of EMTAP
 EMTAP                         by the World Bank Branch-1 of ERD, in line
                               with agreed terms o f reference, including,
                               coordination    and monitoring of sub-project
                               activities supported under the project, promotion
                               of their effective implementation, and promotion
                               of sub-project proposals of high quality in
                               priority areas to help meet the objectives o f the
                               project.




3.       Project components

The Economic Management Technical Assistance Program (EMTAP) is an umbrella operation that will
provide technical assistance to support a critical mass of high priority needs, including expert advice,
enhanced technical skills of officials and improved management systems, to facilitate the implementation
of the Government's economic reformprogram. The World Bank is currently engaged in a dialogue with
the Government on a medium-termprogramof structural reforms that will be supported by an adjustment
operation. The successful implementation of these reforms requires technical expertise and capacity on a
fast track basis that is not readily available inthe Government.

During project preparation, various Ministries and agencies suggested a range of areas in which they
neededtechnical assistance, including the following :




                                                        6

        Strengthening Government capacities for better policy formulation and implementation,
        project planning and management, and improving the functioning of the civil service and
        public administration: support to the Prime Minister's Office, Cabinet Division, Ministry of
        Finance, Planning CommissiordMinistry, Ministry of Establishment, Public Administration
        Training Center and other line MinistriesDivisions and agencies.
        Strengthening revenue administration: support to the National Board of Revenue to strengthen
        and modernize the tax administration.
        Improving the accounting and auditing standards and practices: support to the Ministry of
        Commerce and Finance Division in implementing the recommendations of the recently
        completed Report on Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) in accounting and auditing in
        the corporate sector.
        Improving the information and communication technology in the Government (first steps
        towards e-governance) and developing a road map for development of ICT : support in
        establishing a government-wide electronic network of communication, record keeping and
        archiving, and formulating a roadmap for development of the ICT sector.
        Enhancing Strategic Communication:              assistance to promote better understanding of the
        Government's development activities, policies, priorities and plans, and the benefits associated
        with the various reform measures, so as to helpbuild support for reforms.


Guiding principles for support under EMTAP. A number of components have been developed so far
on the basis of some guiding principles, in line with the main objective and focus of EMTAP, and new
proposals for approval and funding of TA activities under the project would be reviewed on the basis of
these principles, listed below.3

    0   Consistency with the Government's sector strategy and policy objectives, as reflected in the I-
        PRSP, and with the medium-termbudgetary framework, where applicable.
    0   Support to institutional capacity buildingand enhancement of public sector efficiency in carrying
        out core functions, including playing a strategic role or improving service delivery, and reflection
        of a strong public sector rationale.
    0   Contribution to better utilization of human or financial resources or existing capacities or better
        managementof public assets.
    0    Support to design and implementationof policy and institutionalreforms inkey areas.
    0    Support to high impact of public investment on growth through preparation of programs and
        projects inkey areas.
    0   Promotion of efficiency of functioning of the public sector through better communication and
         information sharing and record keeping.
    0   Promotion of better understanding of Government's development activities, priorities and plans
         and buildingof support for reforms through strategic communication with other stakeholders.
    0 Reflection of strong felt needs,       including analytical assessments, and consultations with relevant
         stakeholdersor their involvement inproject design or implementation.
    0 Based on clearly specified objectives and results, aimed to be achieved, and a monitoring and
         evaluation framework, with indicators that allow the tracking of progress towards achieving the
         intendedresults.
    0    Sustainability in terms of budgetary or manpower implications, with proposal supported by
         indications of recurrent cost implications and budgetary impact, where applicable, or interms of
         realizing the benefits of investment intraining.



    Selection of sub-projects for funding under EMTAP in the context of the guiding principles is a covenant under the
DevelopmentGrant Agreement for the project.


                                                    7

The EMTAP consists of 6 components that are listed below. Component 1 is the flexible component
under which new TA sub-projects will be reviewed for possible approval and support, basedon the above
guidingprinciples. Components 2, 3, 4 and 6 have been developed while component 5 is being prepared
by the relevant line Ministry. The cost of these 5 components is estimated at around US$15 million,
accounting for almost 60% of the total project cost of EMTAP. The various project components are
described below.

Component 1 (US$8.23 million) Strengthening Government capacitiesfor better policy formulation
and implementation, and improvingthefunctioning of the civil service and public administration. This
component has a flexible arrangement and aims to provide support, as necessary, in key areas related to
economic and public management, in line with the priorities of the I-PRSP.          Proposals for approval and
fundingof sub-project proposals that are likely to arise invarious sectors duringthe life of the project will
be reviewed on the basis of the above-mentioned guiding principles, developed together with the
Government.      The new sub-projects to be approved would be funded under Component 1. The
Government has expressed preference for including this flexible component, given its previous
experience with TA projects that have been overly specified and not able to adjust to priority needs over
the project cycle. The process for review and possible funding of new sub-projects under Component 1
has been agreed with the Government (Annex 6).

Some examples of areas that could be supported under this component include, but are not limited to,
strengthening of : (i)   public administration, including personnel management and training; (ii)      project
preparation and management; (iii)      performance monitoring of SOEs; (iv) monitoring and management of
external debt service liabilities owed by the Government; (v) BBS's capacity for monitoring growth and
employment; (vi) poverty monitoring and evaluation; (vii) export competitiveness and trade-related
capacity building; (viii) landrecords and management; and (ix) public sector financial management.

Component 2 (US$ 4.02 million) Modernizing revenue administration. Bangladesh has one of the
lowest tax-GDP ratios in the world, currently at 10.3 percent. Enhancing the revenue base i s essential to
support higher public investments in infrastructure and social sectors to help accelerate economic growth
and poverty reduction. The NBR and Finance Divisionhave expressedwillingness to work with the Bank
in preparing a comprehensive strategic development plan for improving revenue administration. This
component will provide support to the NBR and its Departments for modernizingrevenue administration.
It aims to provide support for the implementation of some of the fundamental institutional changes
included in the strategy that are essential for achieving the objectives of NBR for better revenue
collection. They include:


0   Sub-component 2.1. Improving NBR's organizational arrangements (US$ 0.25 million). This sub-
    component will provide support to NBR to initiate aphased shift to a functional organizational design
    and strengthen the role and capacity of NBR. This will be done by supporting change management
    through expert advice and training to facilitate implementation of reforms. In addition, this sub-
    component will provide transitional funding for a senior ICT manager and assistant managers, as
    necessary, under contractual recruitment to oversee the development of a comprehensive ICT
    strategy, manage ICT systems across various taxes, supervise ICT contracts and ensure the security
    and maintenance of existing ICTresources. These personnel will be supported under the project for a
    period of two years, after which the NBR will assume the cost of the ICT group under its own
    budgetary funding. .
0   Subcomponent 2.2. Improve human resource management practices of the NBR.(US$0.25 million).
    This sub-component will support the development of a human resource strategy through advice and



 The specializedlargetaxpayer segment for VAT and IncomeTax are beingsupportedby DFID


                                                     8

    training, as part of the implementationof a new strategic development plan for the NBR, working in
    collaboration with the Public Service Commission and the Ministry of Establishment.
    Sub-component 2.3. Undertake an assessment of the information technology needs of the revenue
    administration, based on a new and modemized organizational design (US$ 1.87 million). This sub-
    component will support assessment of ICT needs of NBR to move towards a new and modem tax
    administration, based on a new functional design and technical architecture that support improved
    functions and processes. In addition, it will support enhanced utilization of ASYCUDA capability.
    ICT hardware and software, based on the needs assessment, will also be provided under this sub-
    component.
    Sub-component 2.4.           Improving customs valuation and assessment/clearance procedures and
    techniquesof risk assessment (US$0.6million). This sub-component will support reforms incustoms
    valuation, assessment and clearance procedures and techniques for risk assessment of imports. In
    addition, the NBR will need to buildon the information generatedby ASYCUDA system modules to
    undertake reforms leading to speedier and more transparent customs clearance operations. This will
    help NBR implement a successful strategy for exit from the PSI arrangement inthe next 3 to 4 years.
    This reform will include on-line filing of customs clearance documentation, organization of green
    channel facility for importers, and development of risk criteria and evaluation to undertake post-
    clearanceaudit, and evaluation of the performance of pre-shipment inspection (PSI) companies. This
    sub-component will also include foreign training on ASYCUDA.
    Sub-component 2.5 :Assessment of weaknesses and capacity development needs in priority areas,
    such as VAT business processes (US$0.13 million). This will support review of existing business
    processes for major taxes, including VAT, and suggest how they could be mademore efficient.
    Sub-component2.6. Strengthen the Research and Statistics Wing of the NBR (US$0.33 million). This
    sub-component will provide assistanceto improve the quality and usefulness of work undertaken by
    the Research and Statistics Wing on estimation of the revenue impacts of tax measures and analysis
    of tax burden, collection trends, compliance gaps and other impact of tax policy changes. Some
    software and hardware needs of the Wing will be met.                This sub-component will be carried out
    through local training as well as short training courses inforeign institutions.
    Sub-component2.7. Strengthen training activitiesfor revenue administration staff (US$0.38million).
    This sub-component will provide assistancefor strengthening of NBR's training academiesinpriority
    areas, including accounting, auditing and enforcement, for the three major taxes. The technical
    assistance will be used for the development and modernization of cumcula of the two training
    academies. A program for training for trainers responsible for training in customs, VAT and income
    tax administration will also be supported to help train NBR staff at the entry level as well as for "in
    service" training.
    Sub-component2.8 :Logistical supportfor sub-project execution by NBR (US$0.02 million)


Component 3 (US$ 6.13 million) Strengthening accounting and auditing practices in the corporate
sector. The component will assist the Government inimproving the environment for a responsive private
sector through policy and legal reforms and capacity building of regulatory agencies, professional
accountancy bodies and academic institutions. The key areas of support are :

     1. Improving statutory framework for accounting, financial reporting and auditing, including full
         adoption of internationalaccounting and auditing standards.
    2. Strengthening regulatory framework through establishment of a new regulatory body for
         oversight of the accountancy profession and enforcement of                  international accounting and
         auditingstandards.

 Human resources managementi s ahighpriority of the NBR that needs to be addressedthrough appointment of a Member with
integratedresponsibilitiesfor corporate strategy, changemanagement andhumanresourcepolicy.


                                                         9

   3. Enhancing capacity of existing regulatory bodies involved in the capital market, banking and
       insurance.
   4. Strengthening capacities of two apex accountancyprofession bodies.
   5. Upgrading academic and professional education and training in accounting and auditing in
       colleges and universities and professional bodies to support high quality financial reporting

   Sub-component 3.1. Preparation of a Financial Reporting Act and Design of a Financial Reporting
   Council (US$0.26 million). This sub-component will provide assistance for formulating a "Financial
   Reporting Act," drawing on recent worldwide experience regarding the regulation of the accountancy
   profession, and including provisions for adoption of IAS/IFRS and ISA for public-interest entities,
   simplified financial reporting requirements for SMEs, and M&E system for enforcing financial
   reporting and auditing standards through a Financial Reporting Council, envisaged to be established
   in 2005. In addition, this assistance will be used to prepare a report on detailed modalities and
   procedures for establishing an independent regulatory body, drawing on recent worldwide experience
   regarding the regulationof accountancy profession.
   Sub-component 3.2. Establishment and operationalization of a Financial Reporting Council as an
   independent regulatory body (US$ 1.87 million). This sub-component will help establish an
   independent regulatory body, based on the report to be prepared under sub-component 3.1, provide
   financial support for its functioning during initial years, and develop a plan for its financial
   sustainability beyond the period of support under the EMTAPfor Government's endorsement.
   Sub-component 3.3. Strengthen capacities of ICAB (US$ 1.37 million). This will provide support for
   capacity buildingof the ICAB through a twinning arrangement with a professional accountancy body
   of a developed country. This will also support local consultancy, and acquisition of computers,
   internationalbooks and periodicals and development of library.
   Sub-component 3.4. Strengthen capacities of ICMAB (US$ 0.40 million). This will support capacity
   building of the ICMAB with the assistance of a professional body of management accountants of
   international standards. This will also support local consultancy, and acquisition of computers,
   internationalbooks and periodicals and development of library.
   Sub-component 3.5. Strengthen capacities of Bangladesh Bank, SEC and Department of Insurance
   (US$ 0.15 million). This will provide assistance for capacity buildingof Bangladesh Bank, Securities
   and Exchange Commission and Department of Insurance for enabling them to deal effectively and
   efficiently with issuesrelating to financial reporting by the regulated entities.
   Sub-component3.6. Comprehensiveprogram of education and training (US$2.04 million). This sub-
   component will provide assistance in improving the curricula and quality of teaching of accounting
   and auditing by universities, colleges, ICAB, ICMAB and other entities to facilitate implementation
   of the IAS/IFRS and ISA through highquality education. The sub-component will support review of
   curricula, local and foreign programs for training of trainers, and provision of internationalbooks and
   periodicals and computers.
   Sub-component 3.7 : Logistical support for sub-project execution (US$O.OS million). This i s to
   provide logistical support in the form of office equipment and related expenses to support
   implementation of the sub-project by the Ministry of Commerce and Finance Division


Component 4 (US$4.06 million) Improving information and communicationtechnology (ZCT) use in
the Government. This component will provide the required ICT infrastructure and training in a core
group of government Ministries and agencies and support administrative and regulatory measures to
improve the use of ICT in the public sector, as a first step towards e-government. In addition, the
formulation of an action plan for development of the ICT sector will be supported.




                                                 10

    Sub-component 4.1. Preparation of an e-Govemment strategy and road map/action plan for ICT
    development (US$0.60 million). This sub-component will provide assistance to MOSICT to develop
    an e-Government strategy and a National ICT road map. The support will also be usedto carry out an
    assessment of the legal and regulatory changes requiredto ensure that all e-documentation filings and
    processesare recognized as being legally valid.
     Sub-component4.2. Establishment of an electronic communication network within Govemment (US$
    3.1 million). This sub-component will provide technical assistance for equipment specification and
    investment support in establishing an integrated Government electronic information and
    communications network, consisting of e-mail, websites and an integrated records and information
    system.
    Sub-component4.3 :Training of Govemment ofJicials in ICT (US$0.30 million). TA will be provided
    to develop and implement training programs to assist civil servants become IT literate, and develop a
    strategy to promote ICT use inGovernment.
    Sub-component4.4 Logistical supportfor sub-project management (US$0.02 million).

Component 5 (US$ 0.4 million1 Strengthening communication between Government and external
stakeholders. This component aims to strengthen Government's capacity for effective communication
with the public and facilitate access to information so as to promote better understanding of the
Government's activities and reform initiatives, including their associated benefits and costs, and help
buildapro-reform constituency. The activities include:

    Sub-component5.1 :Establishment of a Strategic Communications Unit (SCU) for effective oversight
    of the Govemment's communications program. The capacity of the SCU to achieve the following
    objectives will be strengthened to be able to explain the Government's reform actions and their
    impact to the public by strategically deploying messages and champions of reforms, setting a
    communication agenda in light of the sociaVpolitica1 environment, ensuring consistency in
    Government's statements about reforms, and launching communication, based on research and
    analyses.
    Sub-component 5.2 : Strengthening of NIMCO and providing training for Govemment oficials on
    strategic communicationsfor reforms throughthe NIMCO to teach the value and methods of strategic
    communications for reforms.
    Sub-component5.3 :E-network. Bringingthe SCUand all relevant Ministries and offices under an e-
    network for better coordination and developinghevamping PID's website to include communication
    on reform issues, with opportunities for dialogue with and comments from stakeholders, in
    collaboration with the ICT component.
    Sub-component 5.4 : Enhancing communication capacity in some important offices, including the
    Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Finance, Planning Commission, Ministry of Industries,
    Ministryof Commerce, Boardof Investment, andPrivatizationCommission.
    Sub-component5.5 :Additional activities to support strategic communication for reform, to be agreed
    uponbetween the Govemment and the Bank.

Component 6 (US 0.16 million)Logistical and consultancy services to support the central management
of the EMTAP by the World Bank Branch-1 of ERD. This i s to provide logistical support and short-
term consultancy services to the above branch of ERD in centrally coordinating and managing the overall
implementationof EMTAP efficiently. It includes:

0   Sub-component 6.1: Logistical support in the form of office equipment, computers, furniture,
    supplies and other recurrent costs
0   Sub-component6.2 :Workshops, seminars and other dissemination activities.




                                               11

0   Sub-component 6.3 :Short-term and needs-based procurement consultancy services and independent
    post audit of procurement on samplebasisby chartered accountancy firms.


4.       Lessonslearned and reflected inthe projectdesign

The Bank has supported a number of technical assistancehvestment projects in the past.                         Their
implementation experience has been extensively documented through case studies prepared as part of an
Institutional and Governance Review issued by the Bank in 20026 as well as ICRs and OED reports.
Factors that have negatively affected some of the project outcomes are related to the Government's
performance as well as project design.

    o    Project design did not adequately recognize that successful project outcomes can not be achieved
         and sustained unless the underlying institutional weaknesses are addressed. In cases when
         institutional weaknesses have been recognized, the Government has not followed up with
         institutional changes that would have been crucial to realize benefits of the projects.
    o Involving beneficiaries in project design, and especially in the decision-making process, would
         have proved useful for mobilizing public opinion and generating demand and accountability for
         reforms.
    o    A range of factors in the project design have slowed down project implementation.                     They
         include; (i)overly specified projects that have not kept up with the emerging needs and
         environment in the country; (ii)    difficulties of project management and coordination; (iii)      limited
         capacity in line Ministries and agencies to prepare worthwhile project proposals;                  and (iv)
         problems of sustainability of project benefits due to ineffective use of trained manpower and
         inadequatefollow up on TA project outputs.

These issues are to be addressedthrough the project design and implementation. One important feature of
EMTAP i s its linkage with the upcoming Bank-supported adjustment program, DSC 11, which aims to
address some of the policy and institutional weaknesses associated with the activities to be supported
under the TA. Inaddition, guiding principles for fundingnew sub-projects under the flexible component
of EMTAPhavebeen agreed with Government. Other measuresand aspects of EMTAP that are expected
to'help address some of the concerns include : (i)            flexibility in project design, so as to respond to
emerging priority needs under Component 1; (ii)           mainstreaming of project management arrangements
within the existing Government systems, with regular Government officials in charge of project
management (see Annex 6);           (iii)establishing a central coordination arrangement within ERD, and
constituting an inter-Ministerial Steering Committee, with representation from key Ministries involved in
the policy formulation processes, and with an important oversight role; and: (iv) support for preparation
of better project proposals, if needed.

                                         C.       IMPLEMENTATION

1.       Partnership arrangements

Co-financing of the project by other donors i s not being considered. The components to be supported are,
nonetheless, being prepared in consultation with relevant donors, notably with IMF, DFID, ADB and
UNDP, taking into account their support, particularly in taxation, financial management, training and
project implementation.



 For a detaileddiscussionof projectimplementationexperience see "Taming Leviathan-Reforming Governance in Bangladesh",
World Bank, March 2002


                                                     12

2.       Institutional and implementation arrangements

An important objective of EMTAP is to mainstream its implementation within the Government's existing
systems, involving the Government officials and staff directly. The World Bank Branch-1 (hereafter
referred to as WB Branch-1) of ERD of the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the overall
management and effective coordination of EMTAP and sub-project activities executed by various
implementing agencies. The NBR will be the executing agency for the tax modernization component.
The MOC will be executing three sub-componentsunder the component for strengthening accounting and
auditing, while the Finance Division will be executing three other sub-components (Annex 4). The
MOSICT will be executing the component for development of ICT. The M O I will be in charge of the
component for strengthening strategic communication. The WB Branch-1 of ERD will be executing the
component to support overall management of EMTAP. New sub-projects that will be approved for
fundingunder EMTAPduring its implementation under the flexible Component 1will be managedby the
sponsoring Ministry or agency that is incharge of the activities.

Given that the EMTAP is an umbrella operation, there i s a need for effective oversight and coordination
because the related policies and issues typically go beyond the purview of a single agency. It has been
agreed that an inter-ministerial Steering Committee, with Secretary-level officials or their delegated
representatives, from ERD, Finance Division, Socio-Economic Infrastructure Division of Planning
Commission, Ministry of Establishment and NED, will be constituted to play this role.'                                Its main
functions will include : (i)   assessing the priority of the TA sub-projects and related activities in terms of
consistency with the strategic framework and priority objectives of the sector strategy presented in the I-
PRSP; (ii)  monitoring the policy aspects and implications of the sub-projects supported under EMTAP;
and (iii)  monitoring achievement of objectives and outcomes of EMTAP, and initiating adequate
measures to effectively address constraints that might be affecting its efficient implementationand the full
realization of expected results. The counterpart team, composed of representatives from ERD, Finance
Division, Planning Commission and MOE, i s expected to be available for consultation and assistance
duringimplementationof EMTAP.

The existing process that the Government has in place for project processing and approval would be
followed (Annex 6).8 In addition, implementing agencies would have informal consultations with the
World Bank inthe initial stages of TAPP preparation. There will, however, be more intensive scrutiny of
quality for TA sub-projects seeking funding under EMTAP. The Finance Division would play an
important role in reviewing sub-project proposals, with both Development Wing and Budget Wing
providing their feedback, on whether they fit with budget priorities inthe mediumterm, and on what their
impact will be on budgetary expenditures during implementation and after project completion.                                  In
addition, feedback from the Bank on the draft TAPP will be provided and sent through the WB Branch-1
of ERD to the relevant Ministry and executing agency. In the case of sub-projects that the Bank might
agree to consider supporting, the Bank`s comments would need to be incorporated inthe TAPP to qualify
for funding. The revised TAPPs would then be forwarded to the relevant authority for review and
approval. Inthe case of sub-projects above the threshold for approval by line Ministries, TAPPs would
be reviewed by the Special Project Evaluation Committee (SPEC), and, if recommended, they would be
sent for the Planning Minister's approval. Upon receipt of the approved TAPPs, the World Bank Branch-
1of ERDwill submit themto the Bank for its "no objection."




  The representationof MOE in the SteeringCommittee reflects the fact that institutional capacity building i s akey cross-cutting
objectiveof EMTAP, andthis has implicationsfor personnelmanagement policiesandpracticesfor all Govemmententities.
* Theprocess of TAPP review/approvalis expectedto be streamlinedandthe new systemis expectedto be introducedinFY05.




                                                     13

Disbursements and withdrawal of funds from the IDA Grant shall be made through a Special Deposit
Account in US dollar to be maintained in Bangladesh Bank. The WB Branch-1 of ERD will be
responsible for operating the Special Account, including preparing and submitting withdrawal
applications to IDA.

A Deputy Secretary will be heading the team at WB Branch-1 of ERD responsible for the overall
coordination and management of the program. Other officials from ERD or on deputation from other
Ministries or agencies with experience in relevant areas, including financial management, procurement
and accounting, would be involved in the central management of EMTAP at ERD. Personnel of
executing agencies working on various sub-projects would need to include a Government official with
experience in accounting. The personnel of ERD and other executing agencies working on the program
would participate in training on financial management, procurement and disbursement, particularly those
organized by the CPTUfor training inprocurement.

3.       Monitoring and evaluation of outcomedresults

Monitoring and evaluation of the results indicators for EMTAP will be organized separately for each
component, given that it is an umbrella operation, involving a number of sectorshhemes under various
Ministries and agencies. Some of the main indicators have been identified. The teams that will be
working on each sub-project will need to prepare at the beginning of the implementation a proposal for
developing a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for the sub-project throughout implementation,
including identifying the results indicators, and potential sources of data on outputs and outcomes relating
to their components. The relevant consultants working under each sub-project would be required to help
in setting up appropriate monitoring and evaluation system, so that capacity is built in the agencies to
implement this, and mechanismsare establishedto allow the indicators to be usedby managersand policy
makers to assess the project's effectiveness. The preparation of a proposal to develop and apply an M&E
system will be a condition for disbursement of funds to the various sub-projects.

The possibility of mainstreaming the monitoring and evaluation systems and techniques into the
Government's regular mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation, by engaging with the Implementation
Monitoring and Evaluation Division of the Planning Ministry, including reviewing its role and assessing
its capacity, and providing assistanceto strengthen its capacity to undertake this task, if warranted, would
be discussedwith the Government.

4.       Sustainability

Ensuring sustainability ininstitutional capacity buildingprojects has generally been a challenge, not only
in Bangladesh but in several other countries where the Bank has provided assistance.          In the case of
EMTAP, there are some promising indications.       Close monitoring of and support to the implementation
of the programby the Government entities would, however, be vital for its success.

    o There seems to be evidence of the Government's commitment to most of the planned and
         potential activities to be supported under EMTAP and a recognition about the need to scale up
         reforms and public spending in priority areas.        The Finance Minister has requested Bank
         assistance in strengthening tax administration. The Ministries of Finance and Commerce and
         other stakeholders have endorsed the ROSC on accounting and audit reforms. The Ministry of
         MOSICT has expressed interest in Bank support in ICT development. The Cabinet Division has
         expressed its interest in participating in the program. The Principal Secretary has requested
         donors for assistance in training, and approached the Bank. The MOE and BPATC have
         expressedinterest inBank support intraining. The Cabinet Committee on Good Governance and




                                                  14

        Administrative Reforms has recently decided to pursue reforms in a number of areas, including
        training and ICT development.
  0     The unallocated Component 1will be implemented on the basis of sub-project proposals coming
        from the Government, taking into account guiding principles and using an agreed screening and
        evaluation process (Annex 6).
  0     Stakeholders' ownership of the TA activities will be vital for their success.          Sub-projects
        developed so far have been prepared in a participatory manner, involving the relevant
        stakeholders, including advisory committees in some areas, such as the components relating to
        accounting and audit reforms, tax administration and ICT development.
   0    Political commitment to carry out the policy, institutional, legal and regulatory reforms linkedto
        the actions to be supported under EMTAP will be needed to realize the full benefits of the
        activities to be supported. Activities that are in response to Government request or explicit
        interest, and in line with its priorities, are beingconsidered for funding. Some assurance has been
        obtained through the Government's agreement to constitute a Steering Committee that is expected
        to help address, as much as possible, the institutional and other constraints that have affected the
        sustainability of impact of TA projects in the past. Inthe area of training, for instance, proposals,
        including nomination of candidates for training supported under EMTAP, would be reviewed by
        the Bank. The environment has been improved by a new training policy and decision to rotate
        officers within each of their relevant clusters of Ministries/sectors, and this i s expected to be
        reinforced by the possible strengthening through EMTAP of personnel management by the
        Ministry of Establishment.

5.      Critical risks and possiblecontroversial aspects

The following are some of the key risks associatedwith the project and mitigation measures adopted:

   o    Given the importance of strong Government commitment for realizing the project's objectives,
        any change in Government priorities duringthe life of the project could affect the achievement of
        programobjectives. Involving the relevant stakeholders inprogramdesign and monitoring would
        help broaden commitment and ownership and hence mitigate the risk. In addition, the program
        will support a component to improve strategic communication, which might help in creating a
        broader constituency for the reforms supported by the project.
   o    Weak capacities in public entities and their limited ability to prepare worthwhile TA proposals
        that meet the guiding principles could slow down fund utilization, especially in the initial years.
        Assistance for project preparation would be provided under the program, if necessary.
   o Cumbersome procedures for sub-project preparation and approval could slow down the
        implementation of the project. The Government i s in a fairly advanced stage of reviewing and
        revising the procedures for project preparation, evaluation and approval, and implementation of
        EMTAPwould benefitfrom the improved systemto be adopted. Inaddition, agreementhas been
        reached on the time limit for obtaining approval of sub-project proposals following issuance of
        the Bank's "no objection."
   o    Inorder to derive the full benefits of the activities, some institutionalchanges will needto take
        place. In the area of strengthening tax administration, for instance, moving NBR's working
        towards functional lines and improving human resource management practices will be important.
        If inappropriate personnel are trained or not posted in relevant positions, their impact could be
        limited or wasted but prospects have improved with recent changes in posting policy for senior
        officials. There i s a linkage between EMTAPwith the Development Support Credit 11, a policy-
        basedadjustment operation. Some of these institutionalchanges are being addressed through this
        operation.
   o    Coordination with other donors providing technical assistance in related areas would require
        careful management and effective coordination by the Government. This would need to be


                                                     15

         coordinated internally within the Government, as well as through interactions between ERD and
          the relevant LCG sub-groups, includingthe sub-group reviewing donor-supported TA activities.

6.        Grantconditionsand covenants

Conditions of Board presentation

    o None.

Conditions of Grant effectiveness

          Government approval of TAPP for the sub-project to be executedby the WB Branch-1 of ERD to
          support the central management of EMTAP.
          Approval and implementation of proposal to augment capacity of WB Branch-1 of ERD, in line
          with agreed staffing,            through posting of adequate Government personnel with relevant
          experience - including two officials for financial management and one for procurement -- and
          provision of necessary accommodation and administrative support to the team managing
          EMTAP.
          Constitution of a Steering Committee with TORs acceptableto the Bank.

Condition of disbursement of fundsto sub-projects

    o Government approval of the TAPP for the sub-project, inaccordance with agreedprocedures.
    o     "No objection" from the Bank on the basis of approved TAPP to fund the sub-project under
          EMTAP, stating the sub-project allocation in US dollars.                 The guiding principles for selection
          and approval of sub-project proposals requesting funding under EMTAPhave been agreed, and
          this is acovenant under the Development Grant Agreement.
    o Assigning the responsibilities for effectively managing the sub-project, including appointing,
          posting or assigning the responsibility to existing officials in the executing agency for
          management, procurement and accounting.              10

    o     Submission of a proposal, satisfactory to the Bank, for developing monitoring and evaluation
          systems for the sub-projects throughout the implementation of EMTAP, including results
          monitoring indicators and potential sources of requireddata.



                                            D.        APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1.        Economic and financial analyses

A quantitative economic and financial analysis is not justified or feasible for this technical assistance
project. This i s because it i s difficult to value the long-term benefits of investment in institutional
strengthening and capacity building, including human capital, in Government and parts of the private
sector. These investments are expected to improve the impact of Government policies, public spending
and related activities, and enhance efficiency and productivity in the public sector and also promote


  Staffing of the team for central management of EMTAP at the World Bank Branch-1 of ERD and its TORs were agreed at
negotiations. As part of the staffing, the qualification and TORs of the Govemment official responsible for procurement andthe
qualification of official responsiblefor financial management were discussed and agreedduring negotiations.
lo The rank and qualifications of the accounting officers to be working in executing agencies were discussed and agreed upon
during negotiations.




                                                           16

private sector development. Consequently, the project investment i s likely to have higheconomic and
social retums and contribute to the Government's growth and poverty reduction objectives. A process
agreed with Govemment will be used to screen the activities to be undertaken to ensure that they are
economically justified. Sub-project proposals will be reviewed, taking into account some agreed guiding
principles,for considering their funding under EMTAP. Active participation by prospective Ministries
and agencies and competitive selection of TA sub-project proposals, based on their merit and taking into
account the agreedguiding principles, would be promoted.

2.      Technical

The technical quality of sub-project proposals to be supported has received considerable attention. The
technical design of the components relating to accounting and auditing reform and modernization of tax
administration, for instance, are based on analytical assessments and good international practices,
adjusted to suit Bangladesh's administrative structure, which in turn will need to be reformed. Support
for ICT development will also take into account international good practice and experience.

3.      Fiduciary

Financial ManacrementIssues

An assessment of the financial management capacity of ERD was carried out and concluded that its
capacity to manage utilization of IDA funds under EMTAP will need to be strengthened. The required
staffing arrangement has been agreed upon, and its implementation has been made a condition for access
to project funds. The WB Branch-1 will maintain the Books of Accounts of the project as a whole, based
on inputs from various executing agencies and using a computerized accounting system. Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be consolidated by the WB Branch-1 and submitted to IDA on a
quarterly basis. The WB Branch-1 will be responsible for operating the Special Deposit Account for the
whole project.   l1   Government funds for project implementation will flow through each sub-project
implementingagency.

The WB Branch-1 will prepare one set of consolidated financial statements for the overall project,
covering all the sub-projects. The Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate (FAPAD) under C&AG will
carry out the annual audit of the project based on this set of consolidated project financial statements. A
single audit report will cover the entire project, including all its components. The auditors will submit the
requiredaudited financial statements within six months from the end of a fiscal year.

Procurement Issues

Procurement Environment & Reform Actions: The Govemment is implementing a Public Procurement
Reform Project (PPRP). As part of the reform, the Govemment has established a Central Procurement
Technical Unit (CPTU) with adequate staffing funded from own resources, issued Public Procurement
Regulations 2003 and its implementationprocedures, and prepared standard biddingdocuments that are at
the approval stage.        Concurrently, capacity building actions to train 1600 public/ private staff i s
underway. All these actions are contributingpositively to improvingthe procurement environment.

Implementation of Procurement & Capacity Assessment: The WB Branch-1 of ERD will be responsible
for centralized management and effective coordination of the project and sub-project activities of


  While forwarding the bills to WB Branch 1, executingagency of the sub-project should provide evidence of payment of the
Government's share of financing relating to the bills to ensure that all eligible payments have been made before submission of
reimbursementclaims to IDA.


                                                          17

different implementing agencies. Executingagencies identified so far are NBR, MOC, Finance Division,
MOSICT and Ministry of Information. During implementation of the project some other agencies are
expected to be identified. Each agency's share in total project procurement i s modest, but given their
limited familiarity with the new procurement regulations and their actual implementation at the agency
level, the risk associated with procurement is substantial. Each agency will require support and some
strengthening actions for smooth implementation of the project. WB Branch-1 will have one public
procurement staff to provide procurement support; in addition there i s provision for ERDto procure need-
based short-term procurement consultancy services to support the executing agencies. Each agency will
designate one staff to be responsible for procurement. To ensure sustainability, all staff involved in
procurement will undergo training being organized by the CPTU.

Rules and Guidelines: All IDA-financed local procurement of goods, and services for which the shortlist
entirely comprises national consultants will follow the Government's Public Procurement Regulations
2003, acceptable to the Bank (goods costing: < US$300,000 per contract; consultants' services costing: <
US$200,000 for firm and costing < US$50,000 for individuals. Procurement of goods usinginternational
competitive bidding (ICB) will follow procedures outlined in the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, with
consulting services and training obtained through international advertisement to follow the Bank's
Consultants Guidelines.

Procurement Plan: The initid draft Procurement Plan has been finalized. The Plan includes at least the
initial 18 months procurement, which will be updated annually. All procurement activities shall be
undertaken inaccordancewith the Plan.

Use of Standard Documents: All agencies will follow IDA'SStandard Bidding Documents/ Request for
Proposals for ICB procurement / international consultants, with Government's issued documents under
the new procurement regulations to be usedfor all local procurement.

Prior Review Thresholds: IDA will carry out prior review of the following contracts: (i)       for goods-
contracts estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more and the fEst contract for each agency,
regardless of value and method; (ii)  for consultant's services- contracts estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO
equivalent or more for firms and US$50,000 equivalent or more for individuals.

Post Review/ Independent Procurement Audit: Procurement review of small-valued contracts below the
threshold will be carried out annually on a sample basis (- 20%) by Bank staff and an independent
consultingfm(Chartered Accountancy fmwith internationalaffiliation).

4.       Social

There are no social issues or concerns emanating from the TA activities that are currently contemplated.
Ifnew TA activitiesto be supportedunderEMTAPare laterfoundto have social implications,their likely
social impact will be assessed ina consultative manner. A social safeguards expert will be included inthe
IDA supervision teamto address social issues, ifand when they mightarise.

5.       Environment

There are no environmental issues or concerns emanating from the TA activities that are currently
planned. If new TA activities to be supported under the project are later found to have environmental
implications, an environmental safeguards expert will be included in the IDA supervision team to address
environmental issues, as and when they might arise.




                                                18

6.      Safeguard policies


  Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                       Yes                  No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                          [I                   [XI
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP4.04)                                                      E l                  [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                         [ I                  [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                           [ I                  [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                              [ I                  [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                              [ I                  [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                              [I                   [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                       [ I                  [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                         [ I                   [XI
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                [ I                   [XI



7.      Policy exceptionsand readiness
The project does not involve any policy exceptions. The fiduciary arrangements have been agreed and
are expected to be in place on time. The World Bank Branch-1 of ERD has already been organized to
handle the responsibility for overall management and coordination of the project. A team, consisting of
ERD officials, was constituted for this task inMarch, 2004. In addition, three Government officials are
expected to be deputed soon after Board approval to this branch to work on financial management,
procurement and accounts. It has been agreedthat concerted efforts will be madeto assign responsibilities
to counterpart staff in various executing agencies, including mobilization staff through deputation, if
necessary, on a timely basis. It has been agreed that approved sub-projects would be included inthe ADP
in FY05 and future years, soon after their approval, with adequate provision of funding. The General
Procurement Notice for the project was issued in April 2004. The procurement and selection plans for
these sub-projects have been agreed. It has also been agreed that relevant agencies will initiate actions
pro-actively so that procurement activities can be carried out soon after sub-project approval.
Government's comments on sensitive issues inthe PAD have been addressed, thus meeting the disclosure
requirements. Submission of a satisfactory proposal for developing a results assessment arrangement for
each sub-project has been agreed and it i s a covenant for disbursementsto sub-projects.




* By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims on the
disputedareas



                                                         19


            ANNEX 1:        COUNTRY AND SECTOROR PROGRAMBACKGROUND

Country Economic Context

Bangladesh has made considerable progress in raising real per capita income and reducing the share of
population in poverty, estimated at about 50 percent in2000. Progress in improving the social and human
dimensions of poverty has been impressive. Many challenges remain to be addressed, however, especially
inthe area of institutions.Remaining gaps inpolicies and weak institutions have impeded afaster pace of
development. Inadequate improvement in governance has particularly constrained the investment climate
and greatly diminished the state's ability to deliver basic social services, especially to the poor. The pace
of structural reforms, particularly in financial and physical infrastructure, macroeconomic management,
and overall governance, needs to be acceleratedto improve the investment climate, and achieve the goals
of the I-PRSP. Achieving pro-poor growth requires a focus on growth as well as social policies to
promote better income distribution. This requires vigorous pursuit of economic policy reforms and a
strengthening of institutions for overall governance to improve the investment climate and the ability of
the poor to participate inthe growth process.

The success and sustainability of a strategy for better governance also depends on the competence and
responsiveness of public administration. The capacity of the civil service has been declining. There i s a
strong demand for reform from the civil society. Reform champions within the bureaucracy need firm
support from the political leadership to be able to make progress even within their narrow areas of
control. Inparticular, the competenceand analytical capacity need to be strengthenedwithin Government
to effectively manage a liberalizedmarket-oriented economy.

Improving the efficiency and equity of public services should be a priority for public expenditure. There
are a number of issues relating to the quality of public spending, in terms of its linkage to outcomes,
public sector rationale, equity, and leakages. Corruption in public procurement is endemic, linked partly
to the weak system of financial accountability. The chain of accountability between the public, the
legislature, and the executive needs considerable strengthening. The budget process remains fragmented,
with the development and recurrent budgets being prepared and approved separately, resulting in a
mismatch between the capital and recurrent expenditures. Parliamentary oversight of budget
implementation needs to be reinforced by re-establishing effective functioning of parliamentary
subcommittees. Sustained progress i s neededto promote the independence of the functions of the Office
of Comptroller and Auditor General. Overhauling the public procurement regime i s vital, and the
Government has made a promising start inthis area.

Ineducation and health, the state's capacity has lagged behind the expanding needs for these services.
Accountability and incentive mechanisms and checks and balances for public sector functionaries are
weak. Centralized administration and lack of involvement of communities handicap the efficiency and
effectiveness of public resources devoted to human development. It is therefore not surprising that social
services are below minimum acceptable quality, particularly for the poor. Decentralization, improved
effectiveness of public spending, public-private partnership, and improving procurement and financial
oversight are essentialfor strengthening public service delivery.

Some of the priority areas of reform for Bangladesh are : improving financial sector policies;
strengthening infrastructure policy; ensuring macroeconomic stability; deregulating economy; promoting
competition and pursuing trade reforms; improving effectiveness of public service delivery, and
strengthening institutions for governance. It i s very important to keep up the momentum of reforms and
ensure social protectionfor those adversely affected by change and adjustment. Without adequatereforms
growth could slide down, especially in the context of increasing global competition, affecting prospects




                                                     21

for achieving the MDGs. With reforms, growth could climb to the 6-7 percent range envisioned inthe I-
PRSP, allowing Bangladesh to make more rapidprogresstowards meetingthe MDGs.

List of selected Bank economic and sector assessmentson Bangladesh

1.    Government That Works: Reformingthe Public Sector, (1996a). Dhaka: The University Press.
2.    Bangladesh: An Agenda for Action, June 1996, Dhaka
3.    Bangladesh: Country Portfolio Performance Review, December 8-9, 1996, jointly prepared by the
      Government of Bangladesh and the World Bank
4.    Bangladesh: An Agenda for Action (StatusReport), 1997, Dhaka.
5.    Bangladesh: Country Portfolio Performance Review, April 20-21, 1998, jointly prepared by the
      Government of Bangladesh and the World Bank
6.    Bangladesh: Energy Sector Note, 1999, Dhaka
7.    Bangladesh:    Country   Procurement     Assessment   Report,    Volume     I:Summary       and
      Recommendations;Volume 11:Findingsand Analysis; Discussion Paper, Resident Mission, Dhaka.
8.    Foreign Direct Investment in Bangladesh - Issues of Long-Run Sustainability, 1999, World Bank
      Office, Dhaka
9.    Bangladesh: RecentEconomic Performance, March2000, World Bank Office, Dhaka
10. Taming Leviathan: Reforming Governance in Bangladesh, An Institutional Review, Dhaka.
      (September, 2000).
11. Bangladesh: Suppliers' Credit as External Finance, Challenges for Fiscal and External Debt
      Management, October 2000, World Bank Office, Dhaka
12.   Policy Briefs for the New Government (English and Bengali - 19 Briefs) - October 2001, World
      Bank Office, Dhaka

    0   Policy Brief# 1: The Imperativefor Economic Reforms inBangladesh, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief # 2: Governance: Improving Governance to Release the Potential for Poverty
        Reduction, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief # 3: State-Owned Enterprises: The High Cost of State-Ownership in Bangladesh:
        An Agenda for Reform, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief# 4: Globalization and Trade: LeveragingGlobalization and Trade for Development
        and Poverty Reduction, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief# 5: Financial Sector: Remedyingthe Ills of the Financial Sector, Dhaka
    0 Policy Brief # 6:     Health and Population: Capturing Opportunities to Meet Mounting Health
        Challenges, Dhaka
    0 Policy Brief# 7: Education: Buildingon Successto Make Education Sector stronger, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief # 8: Rural Development: Rural Development Gains are Opportunities to Reduce
        Poverty, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief# 9: Fisheries: Management of Fisheries for Sustainable Development, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief# 10: Forest Resources: ManagingForest Resources, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief # 11: Water Resources: ManagingWater Resources to ensure sustainable access for
        all users, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief# 12: Natural Gas: Reforming the Natural Gas Sector, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief# 13: Power: Reforming the Power Sector, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief# 14: Ports: Strategic IssuesinPorts, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief# 15: Roads: Strategic Issuesinthe Roads Sector, Dhaka
    0 Policy   Brief# 16: Telecommunications: Strategic IssuesinTelecommunications Reform, Dhaka
    0 Policy   Brief# 17: Environment: Taking on the Challenges of the Environment, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief# 18: Arsenic: Fighting arsenic poisoning through research and partnerships, Dhaka
    0   Policy Brief# 19: Urban Air Pollution: Controlling Urban Air Pollution, Dhaka




                                              22

13. Bangladesh: Financial Accountabilityfor GoodGovernance, 2002, World BankOffice, Dhaka
14. BangladeshUrbanServiceDelivery, A ScoreCard-May 2002, World BankOffice, Dhaka
15. Poverty in Bangladesh: Buildingon Progress, March 2003, World Bank Office, Dhaka
16. Bangladesh: Public ExpenditureReview, May 2003, World Bank Office,Dhaka
17. Bangladesh: Review of Public Enterprise Performance and Strategy, May 2003, World Bank
    Office, Dhaka
18. Reporton the Observanceof Standards andCodes (ROSC) Bangladesh,May 16,2003, World Bank
    Office, Dhaka
19. Improvingthe Investment ClimateinBangladesh,June 2003, World Bank Office, Dhaka
20. Trade Policiesin SouthAsia: An Overview,June 2003 (draft),World Bank Office, Dhaka
21. PrivateSolutionfor Infrastructure inBangladesh, June 2003, World Bank Office, Dhaka
22. Development Policy Review,December 2003, World Bank Office, Dhaka




                                           23

    ANNEX 2:          MAJOR RELATEDPROJECTS FINANCEDBY THE BANK AND/OTHER
                                                     AGENCIES

Institutional strengthening has been supported through several technical assistance projects in the last
decade by various donors." A list of recent and ongoing TA activities is presentedbelow (donor agencies
are indicated in parentheses). These cover a wide range of cross-cutting areas, such as public resource
management, financial sector strengthening, privatization and enterprise development, as well as sector-
specific operations.

1.      Monitoring Sustainable Human Development Indicators and Developing a Macroeconomic Model
        at PlanningCommission (UNDP)
2.      InstitutionalStrengthening of Ministry of Finance ( ADB)
3.     Efficiency Enhancementof Fiscal Management PhaseI(ADB)
4.     Efficiency Enhancementof Fiscal Management Phase I1(ADB)
5.      Strengthening ExternalDebt Management Capacity (ADB)
6.      Strengthening Institutional SystemsinPlanning (DFID)
7.      Reforms inRevenueAdministration (DFID)
8.      Computerization of Customs and NBR (World Bank)
9.      Strengthening Office of Auditor and Comptroller General ( UNDP)
10. Reforms inGovernment Auditing(DFID)
11. IDF Grant for Development of Accounting and Auditing Standards in Bangladesh (World Bank-
        administered Trust Fund) .
12.     FinancialManagement ReformProgram(DFID)
13.     Strengthening Financial Management Capacity and Building Institutional Capacity of the Office of
        the Comptroller and Auditor General (WB Trust Fund)
14.     Central Bank Strengthening Project (World Bank)
15.     Capacity Buildingof Securities and Exchange Commission(SEC) and Stock Exchanges (ADB)
16.     Capacity Buildingof SEC and selectedCMIs (ADB)
17.     Assistance to SMEDevelopment and Financing(ADB)
18.     Enterprise Growth and BankModernization (World Bank)
19.     InstitutionalStrengthening of Privatization Board (ADB)
20.     South Asia EnterpriseDevelopment Facility (IFCDFID)
21.     Job Opportunities and Business Support (USAID)
22.     Agro-Based Industries and Technology DevelopmentProject (USAID)
23.     Land Administration Reform(ADB)
24.     EnvironmentalLegislation and Policy Analysis (UNDP)
25.     Management at the Top (MATT) (DFID)
26.     Legal and Judicial Capacity Building(World Bank)
27.     Strengthening Project Portfolio Management Performance ( ADB)
28.     Public Procurement Reform(World Bank);
29.     Strengthening Capacity of National Poverty Focal Point (ADB)
30.     Strengthening Poverty Monitoring by BBS (European Commission)
31.     Strengthen Capacity to Monitor and Design Social Safety Nets (World Bank : IDFGrant)
32.     Strengthening National Accounts and Poverty Monitoring ( ADB)
33.     Strengthening National Accounts Phase I1(ADB)
34.     Support to BBS for Gender Dis-aggregation of Statistics (DFID)


  The Bank has provided a number of technical assistancehnvestmentprojects inthe past (24 IDA projects between 1990-1999).
Their implementation experience has been extensively documented through case studies prepared in the context of the
Institutional and Govemance Review issued by the Bank in2002. For a detailed discussion of project implementation experience
see "Taming Leviathan-Reforming Governancein Bangladesh", WorldBank, March 2002


                                                       24

35. TelecommunicationsTechnical Assistance Project (WorldBank);
36. Organization and Reform of Bangladesh Railway Phase I1(ADB)
37. Power Sector Development Technical Assistance (WorldBank)




                                          25

                      ANNEX 3 : RESULTS FRAMEWORKAND MONITORING

                                           ResultsFramework

Project Development Objective                Outcome Indicators                     Use of Outcome Information

Strengthen core economic
management capacities and
contribute to better policy
management and better functioning
of the public administration and the
corporate sector.

       Intermediate Results             ResultsIndicatorsfor Each                    Use of ResultsMonitoring
       One per Component                           Component
ComponentOne: Strengthening          Results indicators for achieving this objective will be specified during the
government's capacities to           implementation, since it relates to the flexible component of the program. They
formulate, implement and monitor     will be made available through the sub-project proposals that will need to be
policy and institutional reforms     submitted during the life of the project, including specifying results indicators
through a betterfinctioning of the   and a mechanism for monitoring them.
public management institution;

       Intermediate Results              Results Indicatorsfor Each                  Use of ResultsMonitoring
       One Der ComDonent                           ComDonent
Component Two:           Modernizing ComponentTwo:                                Component Two:
Tax Administration
                                          NBRimplements a phasedshift                 The NBR will use better audit
     Strengthening Government's           towards a broadly functional                advice, legal services and
     ability to mobilize revenues         organizational design, beginning            effective MISDCT services and
     effectively and eficiently           with a hybrid approach (functional          advice to addresspriority
     through a betterfunctioning of       and tax- by -tax) inthe transitional        objectives, including improving
     the tax administration               period, with the appointment of a           revenue mobilization through
                                          new Member for corporate                    expansion of the tax base and
                                          strategy and human resource                 better tax compliance, and
                                          functions, so as to create an               improved taxation regime and
                                          enabling institutional environment          enhancedefficiency o f tax
                                          for better management,                      collection.
                                          accountability, and compliance.             Reducing vulnerability to
                                          NBRdevelops the infrastructure              corruption through systemic
                                          for improved communication and              improvements, including
                                          information sharing within the              reducing opportunities for
                                          organization by adopting an ICT             misuse o f discretionary
                                          strategy and MIS, based on an               authority.
                                          ICT-needs assessmentand                     Better taxpayer environment and
                                          consistent with its improved                services, leading to improved
                                          functional design                           businessclimate and reducing
                                          Institutionalizing the ICT function         opportunities for discretion by
                                          through a new budget line for ICT           tax officers
                                          maintenance and formalized posts            Public perceptionof quality of
                                          inNBRandDepartments under its               taxpayer service, as measured by
                                          control.                                    periodic surveys or views o f
                                          NBRstrengthens customs                      various chambers o f commerce
                                          valuation, assessmentand                    and industry.
                                          clearance procedures, which aim



                                                       26

                                       to improve efficiency incustoms
                                       administration, as measuredby the
                                       reduction in customs processing
                                       time and costs to importers and
                                       exporters, monitored on a monthly
                                       basis for Chittagong and Dhaka..
                                       Curricula of the NJ3R's training
                                       academiesimproved by focusing
                                       training on priority areas,
                                       including accounting, auditing,
                                       and enforcement, for the three
                                       major taxes, and improvement in
                                       training coverage, as measuredby
                                       the increase in share of revenue
                                       administration staff trained in
                                       priority areas.
                                       Coverage and quality of fiscal
                                       statistics and research improved,
                                       as measuredby the increase inthe
                                       capacity of the Research and
                                       Statistics Wing to provide answers
                                       to policy- relevant questions,
                                       evaluate tax policy alternatives
                                       and provide tax intelligence.

     Intermediate Results              Results Indicators for Each            Use of ResultsMonitoring
     One per Component                           Component
Component Three: Implementing        Component Three :                      Component Three:
Accounting and Auditing Reform         The legal and regulatory               Assessing whether the FRA is
inthe Corporate Sector                 framework for improved financial       being applied effectively and
                                       reporting established, as measured     addressing any constraints to its
   Strengthening corporate             by the enactment o f a Financial       effective application.
   governance through improved         Reporting Act (FRA), including         Assessing whether the regulatory
   auditing and accounting             provisions for IAS/IFRS and ISA,       body is functioning
   practices in the corporate sectoi   and provisions for the                 independently (without influence
   and increased transparency in       establishment o f an independent       of the accountancyibusiness
   financial reporting                 regulatory body for accounting         community), and efficiently in
                                        and auditing standards inthe          ensuring compliance with IAS,
                                        corporate sector, which will be       IFRS and ISA, and addressing
                                        responsible for their enforcement     constraints.
                                        and monitoring                         Assessing the actual
                                        The independent regulatory body       improvement inthe coverage
                                        established and functioning,          and quality o f ICAB and
                                        consistent with the provisions of     ICMAB's training program, the
                                        the FRA.                              quantity and quality of their
                                        Capacity of ICAB and ICMAB            graduates and quality of
                                        enhanced, as measured by the          licensing and its impact on the
                                        satisfactory implementation of        quality o f financial reporting and
                                        twinning arrangements with            auditing.
                                        international professional            Assessing the extent to which
                                        accountancy bodies, and adoption      the number o f qualified
                                        o f improved policies and practices   graduates are coming out of the
                                        related to examinations, training     institutions every year, and
                                        and licensing, leading to an          whether this leading to an
                                                                                                   -
                                        increase inthe DroDortion of          improvement inthe quality o f



                                                 27

                                   successful examinees, and number      financial reporting and auditing.
                                   of qualified chartered accountants
                                   and cost and management
                                   accountants graduating every year.
                                   Teaching curricula for universities
                                   and colleges improved to include
                                   IASIIFRS and ISA, and number of
                                   qualified teachers increased, as
                                   measuredby the increase inthe
                                   number of trainers successfully
                                   completing both foreign and local
                                   program of training of trainers.
                                   Improved educational and training
                                   programs inaccounting and
                                   auditing, leading to an increase in
                                   university and college graduates
                                   trained inIAS/IFRS and ISA.


     Intermediate Results         ResultsIndicatorsfor Each              Use of ResultsMonitoring
     One per Component                      Component
Component Four: Promoting ICT Component Four:                          Component Four:
Development

   Improving information and       The establishment o f a coherent      Assessing the extent to which
   communication technologies in   framework for the development o f     the e-Government strategy and
   the Government by making use    the ICT by developing and             ICT road map are contributing to
   of electronic communication     adopting the e-Government             ICT development, and the extent
                                   strategy and road map for             to which the enhancedICT
                                   development of the ICT sector by      capacity i s being used to
                                   December 2005.                        improve efficiency of
                                   Increased use of ICT inthe            communications, recorddata
                                   Government, as measuredby the         management and information
                                   share of Class Icadre civil           sharing within Government, and
                                   servants using email and internet     addressing constraints, if any.
                                   services by mid-termreview and at
                                   the end of the project, compared
                                   with 2004.
                                   Increase in share o f Class Icivil
                                   servants provided ICT training by
                                   mid-term review and the end o f
                                   the project period.
                                   Necessary legal and regulatory
                                   amendments made so that all e-
                                   documentation filings and
                                   processes are recognized as being
                                   legally valid.
                                   Improving information and
                                   communication technologies in
                                    Government by making use of
                                    electronic communication.
                                    Electronic methods to disseminate
                                    Government information, internal
                                    notices and correspondence such
                                    as minutes of meetings, project



                                            28

                                       reviews, and office orders,
                                       adopted.


     Intermediate Results             ResultsIndicatorsfor Each               Use of ResultsMonitoring
     One per Component                          ComDonent
Component Five: Strategic           Component Five:                         Component Five:
communication between                 Establishment of a SCU and its
Government and stakeholders           effective functioning for efficient     Assessing the extent to which
                                      oversight o f the Government's          the enhancedcapacity and
   Creating conditions and the        communications program;                 improved strategy is contributing
   necessary institutional            Strengthening o f NIMCO and use         to an improvement inthe flow of
   infrastructure for improving the   of its capacity for training and use    communication and its quality
   communication strategy of the      of improved skills by Government        and effectiveness, and
   Govemment topromote                officials, especially inimportant       addressing constraints to
   understanding of and support       offices, for communicating with         realization of benefits.
   for economic reforms               other stakeholders.
                                      Number of officials trained in
                                      strategic communication.
                                      Integrationo f the strategic
                                      communication unit and all
                                      relevant      sites of Ministries and
                                      agencies under one network for
                                      better coordination.
                                      Establishing linksbetween the
                                       SCU and central government
                                      offices, such as the Prime
                                      Minister's Office, Ministry of
                                       Information, and Ministries o f
                                      Finance and Planning, with
                                       communication demands on a day-
                                       to-day basis.

     Intermediate Results           Results Indicatorsfor Each              Use of ResultsMonitoring
     One per Component              Component
Component Six: CentralProiect          Effectiveness o f central
ManagementbyWorldBankBranch-            management o f EMTAPby the
1ofERD,                                 World Bank Branch-1 of Em, in
                                        line with agreed terms of
                                        reference, including, coordination
                                        and monitoring of sub-project
                                        activities supported under the
                                        project, promotion o f their
                                        effective implementation, and
                                        promotion o f sub-project
                                        proposals o f high quality in
                                        priority areas to help meet the
                                        obiectives of the moiect.




                                                29

                           ARRANGEMENTS FORRESULTSMONITORING

    A number of results monitoring indicators for all the sub-projects developed or identified so far have
  been formulated and agreed with the various executing agencies. These are presented in the result
   indicators matrix (pages 4-6 and Annex 3). Agencies that will be executing sub-projects under EMTAP
   will be required to prepareproposals for developing monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems, including
  relevant details on monitoring indicators, sources of data, frequency of reporting and institutional
  responsibilities for updating these indicators and sharing them with relevant Ministries and agencies.
   Submission of an acceptable proposal for all TA sub-project proposals seeking fundingunder EMTAP i s
   a requirement for accessingfunds under the project. It is envisaged that the M&Eproposals will include
   most of the agreed indicators but executing agencies will be free to suggest additional relevant indicators.
  The format inthe table below will be used as part of the M&Eproposal, and this will be completed by the
  executing agencies. Once a sub-project is approved for funding under EMTAP, it i s also envisaged that
   relevant consultants would help and advise the executing agencies on developing the proposal further and
   implementingthe M&Esystem.


                                        Target Values                        D; Collection a
                                                                                 3                1Reporting
     Outcome      Baseline   YR1     YR2     YR3    YR4      YR5     Frequency        Data        Responsibilityfor Data
    Indicators                                                          and        Collection           Collection
                                                                                  Instruments
ResultsIndicators
     for Each
   Component
Component One                                               To be      Tobe      To be agreed     To be agreedfor each
Flexible                                                    agreed    agreedfor  for eachnew      new sub-project
componentwith                                               upon      eachnew    sub-project
unallocated                                                          sub-project
resources                                                             as partof
                                                                       M&E
                                                                      proposal

Component Two                                               To be      To be     1.FMRs           Sub-project
Modernizing                                                 agreed     agreed    2. Annual and    managementteamof
revenue                                                     upon                 periodic reports NationalBoardof
administration :                                                                 of NBR and       Revenue(NBR)
To be agreedas                                                                   other sources
partof M&E                                                                       within and
proposal,taking                                                                  outside NBR,
suggested                                                                        to be agreed
indicators into
account




                                                  30

                                                      +
                                 I      Ta retValues                   DataCollectionandReDorting
                                           L                                                           u
      Outcome                         YR2  YR3     YR4                         Data       Responsibility for Data
     Indicators                                                              Collection         Collection
                                                               Re orts     Instruments
 Component Three     To be                                                1.FMRs          Sub-project
 Strengthening        determined                       agreed  agreedas   2. Other        nanagementteams of
 accounting and       as part of                       upon     part of   sources within  Ministry of Commerce
 auditing practices : the M&E                                    M&E      and outside     mdthe Finance
 To be agreed as      proposal                                 proposal   MOC and         Division, Ministry of
 part of M&E          and its                                             Finance         Finance
 proposal, taking     implement-                                          Division ,to be
 suggested            ation                                               agreed
 indicators into
 account
 Component Four       To be                                               1.FMRs.         Sub-project
 Improving ICT use    determined                                          2. Other        managementteam of
 in Government :To    *
                      as part of                                part of   sources within  Ministry of Scienceand
 be agreedas part of  the M&E                                             and outside     Information and
 M&Eproposal,         proposal                                  proposal  MOSICT, to be   Communication
 taking suggested     and its                                             agreed          Technology
 indicators into      implement-
 account
 Component Five                                                           FMRsand other   Sub-project
 Strengthening        determined                                          sources within  management team of
 strategic            as part of                                part of   and outside     Ministryof Information
 Communication :      the M&E                                             MOI, to be
 To be agreed as      proposal                                  proposal  agreed
 part of M&E          and its
 proposal, taking     implement-
 suggested
 indicators into
Iaccount
 _. ..~~~~

 Component six                                          To be    To be    1.FMRs          World Bank Branch-1
 Central                                                agreed  agreedas  2. ERD's        of ERD
 management of                                          upon     part of  monthly
 EMTAP : To be                                                   M&E      monitoring
 agreedas part of                                               proposal  reports
 M&Eproposal,                                                             3. JMED's
 taking suggested                                                         report on
 indicators into                 I                                        procuremenu
 account                                                      I           implementation
                                                                          4. Other
                                                                          sources to be
                                                                          agreed.




                                                 31

                          ANNEX 4:       DETAILED PROJECTDESCRIPTION

The Economic Management TA programis an umbrella operation that will provide technical assistance to
support a critical mass of high priority needs to facilitate the implementation of the Government's
economic reformprogram. The World Bank i s currently engaged ina dialogue with the Government on a
medium-term program of structural reforms that will be supported by an adjustment operation. The
successful implementationof these reforms requires technical expertise and capacity on a fast track basis
that is not readily available inthe Government.

During project preparation, various Ministries and agencies suggested a range of areas in which they
neededtechnical assistance, including:

    Strengthening government capacitiesfor better policy formulation and implementation, project
    planning and management, and improving the functioning of the civil service and public
    administration:        support to the PM's Office, Cabinet Division, Ministry of Finance, Planning
    CommissiodMinistry, Ministry of Establishment, Public Administration Training Center and other
    line MinistriesDivisions and agencies.
    Strengthening revenue administration: support to the National Boardof Revenue.
    Improving the accounting and auditing standards and practices: support to the Ministry of
    Commerce and Finance Division in implementing the recommendations of the recently completed
    Report on Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) in accounting and auditing in the corporate
    sector.
    Improving the information and communication technology in the Government (first steps
    towards e-governance) and developing a road map for development of ICT : support in
    establishing a government-wide electronic network of communication, record keeping and archiving
    and formulating a roadmap for development of the ICT sector.
    Enhancing Strategic Communication:             assistance to promote better understanding of the
    Government's activities, priorities and plans and the benefits associated with the various reform
    measures so as to help buildsupport for reforms.

A number of components have beendeveloped so far onthe basis of some guiding principles, inline with

EMTAPwould bereviewed onthe basis of these principles, listedbelow.
the objectives and focus of EMTAP, and new proposals for approval and13funding of TA activities under


0   Consistency with the Government's sector strategy and policy objectives, as reflected in the I-PRSP,
    and with the medium-termbudgetary framework, where applicable.
0   Support to institutional capacity buildingand enhancement of public sector efficiency in carrying out
    core functions, including playing a strategic role or improving service delivery, and reflection of a
    strong public sector rationale.
0   Contribution to better utilization of human or financial resources or existing capacities or better
    managementof public assets.
0   Support to design and implementationof policy and institutionalreforms inkey areas.
0   Support to highimpact of public investment on growth through preparation of programs and projects
    inkey areas.
0   Promotion of efficiency of functioning of the public sector through better communication and
    information sharingand record keeping.



l3 This is a covenant for EMTAP.


                                                32

0   Promotion of better understanding of Government's development activities, priorities and plans and
    buildingof support for reforms through strategic communication with other stakeholders.
0   Reflection of strong felt needs, including analytical assessments, and consultations with relevant
    stakeholders or their involvement inproject design or implementation.
    Based on clearly specified objectives and results, aimed to be achieved, and a monitoring and
    evaluation framework, with indicators that allow the tracking of progress towards achieving the
    intendedresults.
0   Sustainability in terms of budgetary or manpower implications, with proposal supported by
    indications of recurrent cost implications and budgetary impact, where applicable, or in terms of
    realizing the benefits of investment intraining.

The EMTAPconsists of 6 components that are listedbelow. Component 1is the flexible component with
unallocatedresourcesunder which new TA sub-projects will be reviewed, approved and supported, taking
the above guiding principles into account. Components 2, 3, 4 and 6 have been developed while
component 5 i s being prepared by the relevant line Ministry. The cost of these 5 components is estimated
at about US$15 million, accounting for almost 60% of the total project cost of EMTAP. The various
project components are described below.

COMPONENT 1 (US 8.23 million) STRENGTHENING GOVERNMENT CAPACITIES FOR
BETTER POLICY FORMULATION AND IMPLEMENTATION, AND IMPROVING THE
FUNCTIONING OF THE CIVIL SERVICEAND PUBLICADMINISTRATION.

This component has a flexible arrangement and aims to provide support, as necessary, inkey areas related
to economic and public management, in line with the priorities of the I-PRSP.        Proposals for approval
and funding of sub-project that are likely to arise in various sectors during the life of the project will be
reviewed on the basis of the above-mentioned guiding principles developed together with the
Government.     The new sub-projects to be approved would be funded under Component 1. The
Government has expressed preference for including this flexible component, given its previous
experience with TA projects that have been overly specified and not able to adjust to priority needs over
the project cycle. The process for review and possible funding of new sub-projects under Component 1
has been agreedwith the Government (Annex 6).

Some examples of areas that could benefit from this component include, but are not limited to,
strengthening: (i)  public administration on issues relating to personnel management and training; (ii)
project preparation and management; (iii)performance monitoring of SOEs; (iv) monitoring and
management of extemal debt service liabilities owed by the Government;            (v)   BBS's capacity for
monitoring growth and employment; (vi) poverty monitoring and evaluation; (vii) export competitiveness
and trade-related capacity building; (viii) land records and management; and (ix) public sector financial
management.


COMPONENT2 (US$4.02million) MODERNIZING REVENUEADMINISTRATION

Sector issuesandGovernmentstrategy

Bangladesh has experienced difficulty in raising its total revenue-to-GDP ratio, currently 10.3 percent,
and diversifying the tax base by increasing the relative contribution of domestic taxes. The revenue
structure i s skewed and still remains heavily dependent on customs duty collections. The NBR i s
responsible for most of the revenue collection. It needs a major institutional overhaul to enable it to
mobilize revenue effectively and efficiently, while supporting the development of a business climate
conducive to growth and minimum tax-induced distortions. Reform in tax administration i s needed to


                                                 33

achieve deficit reduction targets and ensure that revenue is generated in a transparent, efficient, and
equitable manner. Bangladesh consistently scores near the bottom of intemational surveys of good
governance, accounting standards, andthe costs of complying with administrative regulations.

The primary issues in the Bangladesh tax administration system are: (i)         a low level of voluntary
compliance under both direct taxes and VAT; (ii)      an organizational structure reflecting a tax-by- tax
design and assessments implemented through small, geographically-assigned circle offices versus a
functional organization of work and extensive reliance on self assessment, that undermines information
sharing and opportunities for specialization of work and associated productivity gains; (iii)
                                                                                            weaknesses in
customs valuation procedures and inefficient customs clearance operations; (iv) very limited use of
information technology within the tax system and the absence of both a comprehensive ICT strategy and
adequate budget allocations to sustainexisting ICT capabilities; (v) structural weaknesses inVAT design,
leading to an inability to implement an unbroken VAT audit chain through the retail stage; (vi) a narrow
income tax base caused by many exemptions and generous tax holidays; and (vii) rigid human resource
policies, including a compressed pay scale for staff, that threatens integrity and undermines efforts to
recruit staff with vital specialist skills.

Past and on-going reforms have been limited in scope since the institution was not ready to engage in a
comprehensive effort. Critical institutional aspects, such as organizational design and human resource
management practices, have not been addressed.            Integrity issues have not been tackled in a
comprehensive manner. Voluntary compliance remains low and information technology i s very limited,
due to both the lack of an ICT strategy and adequate budget allocationto sustainexisting ICT capabilities.

Since June 2003 Government of Bangladesh has been committed to implementing tax administration
reforms under the Poverty Reductionand Growth Facility (PRGF), supported by the IMF. Inaddition the
Bank's Development Support Credit I1 will support public sector institution building to improve the
effectiveness of Government. The Fund has provided TA on NBR's organization structure and has
recommended adoption of a functional design. In addition to existing commitments under the program
with the Fund, senior officials from the NBR and Finance Division requested assistance from the Bank
for a comprehensive programto modernize tax administration functions. Inorder to prepare this program,
it was agreed that NBR would formulate a strategic development plan that would set clear goals for the
organization and identify the main strategic areas and actions required to achieve these goals. The
preparation of the strategic plan i s underway.

Underthe Fundprogram, the Government has agreedto modernize and expand the Large Taxpayers Unit
(LTW to cover income tax initially, followed by VAT coverage inFY2005, andto establishing a Central
Intelligence Unit (CIU) to facilitate the sharing of information across taxes and from third party sources.
The institutional strengthening of the LTUand CIU i s being supported by a multiyear technical assistance
project "Reforms in Revenue Administration" (RIRA), funded by DFID. This project i s also supporting
the NBR in developing a code of conduct and in improving the environment that could lead to the
formulation of new legislation and/or administrative framework.           RIRA hopes to support wider
institutional and governance reforms by usingthe LTUas an incubationcenter for administrative reforms
that can be scaled up to cover the rest of the tax administration. The Bank`s assistance under EMTAP
will be complementary to the assistance that is being provided by DFID on the strengthening of a large
taxpayer unit for income tax and the LTUenvisaged for VAT.

In response to the request by the Finance Minister, a Bank mission was undertaken inJanuary 2004 for
discussions with the NBR and Finance Division on options for reform of the NBR that are additional to
those supported under the PRGF. Senior officials in NBR and Finance Division requested Bank support
with a comprehensive program to modernize the tax administration. The EMTAPresources are intended




                                                 34

to assist Bangladesh in implementing NBR's program for tax modernization, in close coordination with
other donor-funded projects.

ComponentObjective

The tax administration component aims to assist Bangladesh in meeting its revenue target over the
medium term. It aims to contribute to the acceleration of growth through a better business climate and
improved domestic competitiveness by improving trade logistics and customs                       and domestic tax
administration. The tax administration components can also foster improved governance in Bangladesh
and enhancethe integrity and professionalism of civil servants working intax administration.

The principal rationale for Bank involvement stems from the CAS objectives. Specifically, reforms and
institutional strengthening in tax administration are intended to (a) help to build stronger institutions and
improve governance across sectors, and (b) contribute to accelerated and broad-based private sector-led
growth.

The Bank supported a program for customs modernizationunder the Export Diversification Project, from
1998 to 2004. This facilitated the successful implementation of the ASYCUDA++ technology for
customs documentation and clearance procedures. Bank involvement in the next phase of modernization
and institutional reform will help to ensure that adequate attention is focused on customs issues and that
the Government is helped to consolidate the accomplishments under the Export Diversification Project
and build additional capabilities, with a focus on taxpayer services.

ComponentDescription

This component will provide support to the NBR for modernizing revenue administration. It will have
the following sub-components:


    0    Sub-component 2.1. Improving NBR's organizational arrangements (US$ 0.25 million). This
         sub-component will provide support to NBR to initiate a phased shift to a functional
         organizational design and strengthen the role and capacity of NBR.               l4This will be done by
         supporting change management through expert advice and training to facilitate implementation of
         reforms. In addition, this sub-component will provide transitional funding for a senior ICT
         manager and assistant managers, as necessary, under contractual recruitment to oversee the
         development of a comprehensive ICT strategy, manage ICT systems across various taxes,
         supervise ICT contracts and ensure the security and maintenance of existing ICT resources.
         These personnel will be supported under the project for a period of two years, after which the
         NBR will assume the cost of the ICT group under its own budgetary funding.

    0    Subcomponent 2.2.          Improve human resource management practices of the NBR.(US$ 0.25
         million). This sub-component will support the development of a human resource strategy through
         advice and training, as part of the implementation of a new strategic development plan for the
         NBR, working in collaboration with the Public Service Commission and the Ministry of
         Establishment.     l5


         Sub-component 2.3. Undertake an assessment of the information technology needs of the revenue
         administration, based on a new and modemized organizational design (US$ 1.87 million). This


l4The specialized largetaxpayer segment for VAT and IncomeTax are beingsupportedby DFID
l5Human  resourcesmanagementis ahighpriority of the NBR that needs to be addressed throughappointment of aMemberwith
integratedresponsibilitiesfor corporatestrategy, change managementandhumanresourcepolicy.



                                                        35

        sub-component will support assessment of ICT needs of NBR to move towards a new and
        modernized tax administration, based on an improved functional design and technical architecture
       that support new functions and processes. In addition, it will support enhanced utilization of
        ASYCUDA capability. ICT hardware and software for NBR and its Departments will also be
       provided under this sub-component, based on aneeds assessment.

        Sub-component 2.4. Improving customs valuation and assessmentklearance procedures and
        techniques of risk assessment (US$ 0.6 million). This sub-component will support reforms in
        customs valuation, assessment and clearance procedures and techniques for risk assessment of
        imports. In addition, the NBR will need to build on the information generated by ASYCUDA
        system modules to undertake reforms leading to speedier and more transparent customs clearance
        operations. This will help NBR implement a successful strategy for exit from the PSI
        arrangement in the next 3 to 4 years. This reform will include on-line filing of customs clearance
        documentation, organization of green channel facility for importers, and development of risk
        criteria and evaluation to undertake post- clearance audit, and evaluation of the performance of
        pre-shipment inspection (PSI) companies. This will also include foreign training on ASYCUDA.

        Sub-component 2.5 :Assessment of weaknesses and capacity building needs in priority areas,
        such as VAT businessprocesses (US$0.13 million). This will support review of existing business
        processes for major taxes, including VAT, and suggest how they could be made more efficient.

        Sub-component 2.6. Strengthen the Research and Statistics Wing of the NBR (US$ 0.33 million).
        This sub-component will provide assistance to improve the quality and usefulness of work
        undertaken by the Research and Statistics Wing on estimation of the revenue impacts of tax
        measures and analysis of tax burden, collection trends, compliance gaps and other impact of tax
        policy changes. This will be carried out through local training as well as short training courses in
        foreign institutions. Some software and hardware needs of the Wing will also be met.

        Sub-component 2.7. Strengthen training activities for revenue administration stafJ: (US$ 0.38
        million). This sub-component will provide assistance for strengthening of NBR's two training
        academies in priority areas, including accounting, auditing and enforcement, for the three major
        taxes, in cooperation with the RIRA project. The technical assistance will be used for the
        development and modernization of curricula of the two training academies of NBR. In addition,
        a program for training for trainers responsible for training in customs, VAT and income tax
        administration will be supported to help NBR staff at the entry level as well as for "in service"
        training. The sub-component will also provide some software and hardware needs of the training
        academies.

        Sub-component2.8 :Logistical supportfor sub-project execution by NBR (US$0.02 million).

The following actions and activities to be covered under this component are summarized below.

        For the shift to a functional organization structure performance indicators will be : (i)
        Establishment and staffing of two units reporting to the Chairman NBR, one for legal services
        and one for ICT services; (ii)appointment of two new Members or redefine the responsibilities of
        existing Member positions to cover the functions of Member for audit and Member for human
        resources, strategic planning and change management; and (iii)      appointing a senior manager
        MIS/ICT and assistant managers and the preparation of a comprehensive information technology
        strategy for the NBR. NBR will appoint a legal Advisor reporting to the Chairman. Additionally,




                                                36

        NBR will develop a change management plan and conduct change management training for
        senior officials at the management level.


    e   Under the customs component NBR will : (i)      develop a plan for a fast track or green channel
        customs clearance; (ii)  develop a risk assessment capability for post-clearanceaudit and access to
        the fast track facility; (iii)
                                    implement an audit of PSI, using procedure agreed with the Bank and
        develop a successful strategy for exit from the PSI arrangement; and (iv) improve the import
        valuation function of customs and the collection and monitoring of quantitative indicators of
        customs processing performance.


    0   NBR will complete an evaluation and implement improvements in taxation statistics prepared by
        the Research and Statistics Wing. The work program of the unit will need to be developed to
        provide intelligence or researchinputs to other units within the NBR, such as the development of
        a tax expenditure account for income tax and the estimation of tax compliance gaps for all major
        taxes.
    0   The NBR will collaborate with the Public Service Commission to identify specialized recruitment
        criteria for entry level appointments to the NBR.The curricula of the two training academies or a
        merged academy will be modemized with the support under EMTAP and the RIRA project. The
        number of participants in training beyond entry level training will be a quantitative performance
        indicator. The NBR will facilitate the acquisition of new skills for "in service" tax cadre officers
        by establishment of a facility in Training Academy in Dhaka for training, covering income tax
        and VAT administration. By developing operation links between the two academies, the NBR
        will be able to improve the quality of training, its cost effectiveness and participation levels of
        staff as well as help bridge the two work cultures of the customs and income tax cadres.

Lessons learned and reflectedinthe component design

Experience from other countries that have attempted reforms of tax organizations indicate that it is
important to have one office take overall responsibility for implementation of organizational change and
project management. Change managementtraining and providing information and reassuranceto the staff
affected by organizational change can all make a significant contribution to success. In addition, those
implementing institutional reforms should undertake a stakeholder analysis of the process and attempt to
mobilize the support of external stakeholders, who are likely to benefit from reforms. International
experience indicates that extensive expansion of information technology should not be undertaken until
the tax administration has improvedthe taxpayer IDnumber system adequately and has developed at least
a simplified version of a comprehensive ICT plan or strategy.

Government's readiness

The Govemment of Bangladesh is committed to achieving the quantitative targets set out in its economic
program and acknowledges the need for pragmatic reform to expand the tax base and increase voluntary
compliance. The Govemment has been making progress under the Export Diversification Project in
automating basic documentation for customs clearance and i s making progress under the RIRA project in
developing auditing skills within the LTU. NBR has endorsed the proposal to implement a new enabling
environment for the Boardand intends to utilize this vehicle to induct two new Membersto the Board and
implement other institutional changes. The termination of the Multi-Fiber Agreement under which
Bangladesh's products were assigned import quotas has placed renewed pressure on the authorities to
institute visible reforms that improve public governance, reduce the cost of business regulatory
compliance and improve trade logistics.




                                                 37

Partnershiparrangements

The DFID is funding a major reform of the income tax administration structure under RIRA. This project
commenced in 2003 and has a two-year timeline during which extensive modernization of the Income
Tax Department of the NBR i s intended. A work plan agreed with the NBR in October 2002 included
provision for modernization in 23 administrative areas broadly covering: (1) high level management
issues, involving the development of strategic organizational statements, code of conduct and a taxpayer
charter; (2) implementation of an effective LTU; (3) development of a management information system,
tax intelligence, upgraded statistical analysis capability and tax modeling and revenue forecasting
capability; and (4) a number of essential operational reforms, including the implementation of a single
taxpayer identification number. Additionally, with the support of the Fund, DFID has commenced
discussion with the NBR on expanding the RIRA project to cover reform of business processes and a
Large Taxpayer Unit for VAT. The Government has, however, not yet presented a plan for a large
taxpayer unit for VAT.

Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The NBR, in close cooperation with the Finance Division, will be responsible for implementation
arrangements. The NBR will nominate a senior official who will act as the main counterpart for EMTAP
implementation.

COMPONENT 3 (US$ 6.13 million) STRENGTHENING ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
PRACTICESINTHE CORPORATESECTOR.

Sector issuesandGovernment strategy

Recent review of accounting and auditing practices in Bangladesh, based on the ROSC initiative, has
highlighted significant weaknesses in the enforcement of high quality financial reporting and auditing
standards. These weaknesses have a detrimental impact on the business and investment environment,
increase opportunities for tax evasion, fraud, corruption, undermine good corporate governance, and
impede growth. Specifically, poor quality accounting and auditing practices of banks and the corporate
clients of banks have contributed to the vulnerability of Bangladesh's financial sector. From this
perspective, there i s a need for strengthening institutional capacity for the rigorous application of high
quality financial reporting and auditing standards. Inaddition, it i s necessary to enhance the competence
of accountants, auditors, educators and regulators to use international standards.

Improving accounting and auditing practices i s a key task for sustainable economic development in
Bangladesh. High-quality financial reporting will strengthen the country's financial architecture and
reduce the risk of financial crises and scandals, and their associated negative economic impacts, as
recently witnessed in some developed and developing countries. Improved financial reporting will
contribute to strengthening investment climate, attract foreign investment, promote international growth
of Bangladeshi enterprises, help mobilize domestic savings, and underpinthe growth of financial markets.

This project component seeks to assist implementation of a comprehensive action plan, based on the
recommendations made by the Bank's Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) in
accounting and auditing. The Government of Bangladesh and its private partners intend to implement
recommendations set forth inthe ROSC..

The ICAB, ICMAB, SEC, Bangladesh Bank and Department of Insurance have expressedkeen interest in
participatinginthe implementationof the IAS/IFRS and ISA to upgrade the quality of corporate financial



                                                38

reporting. Some steps have been taken and further results require the implementation of a comprehensive
action plan to implement the recommendations of the ROSC inaccounting and auditing.

Component objective and rationalefor Bank involvement

The recently completed Report on Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) in accounting and
auditing assessed the accounting and auditing practices and capacity needed to ensure the quality of
corporate financial reporting, within the broader context of the Bangladesh's institutional framework. The
ROSC outlines the strategy to improve the statutory framework, strengthening enforcement mechanisms,
upgrading professional education and training, and enhancing capacity of regulatory and professional
bodies. EMTAP would assist the Government of Bangladesh in implementing this strategy. The Bank`s
CAS highlights a need of promoting the Government's objective of an outward-oriented private sector-
driven economic growth. The proposed project would support this objective. Moreover, this i s in line
with a broader policy of the Bank with respect to strengthening international financial architecture. In
February 2001, following a review of Bank-Fund joint initiative on ROSC, Bank and Fund Executive
Directors called for the provision of more assistance to client countries to implement the policy
recommendations emanating from ROSC exercises.

Strengthening corporate financial reporting regime is one of the key elements of sustainable economic
development in Bangladesh. High-quality financial reporting will strengthen the country's financial
architecture and reduce the risk of financial crises and scandals, the consequences of which have a
harmful impact, as evidenced around the world. Availability of transparent and reliable financial
information will contribute to strengthening the investment climate by attracting foreign investment,
helping mobilization of domestic savings, underpinning securities market development, facilitating
healthy growth of the financial markets, and enabling regulatory bodies to take market-friendly actions
aimed at achieving economic development as well as protectingpublic interest.

Component description

The component's development objective i s to contribute to Bangladesh's economic growth through a
responsive private sector. The proposed project intends to assist the Government of Bangladesh in
improving the enabling environment for a responsive private sector through policy reform and capacity
building of regulatory agencies, professional institutes and academic institutions. The project would
achieve this by assisting the Government between 2004 and 2009 in building capacity in a number of
areas. Following are the key indicators:

             o   Improved statutory framework for accounting, auditing and financial reporting, including
                 adoption of internationalaccounting and auditing standards
             o   Strengthened regulatory framework for oversight of the accountancy profession and
                 enforcement of international accounting and auditing standards.
             o   Enhanced capacity of existingregulatory and professional bodies.
             o   Upgraded academic and professional education and training for supporting high quality
                 financial reporting.

        Sub-component 3.1. Preparation of the Financial Reporting Act and Design of a Financial
        Reporting Council (US$O.26 million). This will provide assistance for formulating a "Financial
        ReportingAct," drawing on recent worldwide experience regardingthe regulation of accountancy
        profession, and including provisions for adoption of IAS/IFRS and ISA for public-interest
        entities, simplified financial reporting requirements for SMEs, and M&E system for enforcing
        financial reporting and auditing standards through a Financial Reporting Council by 2005. In
        addition, this assistancewill be usedto prepare a report on detailed modalities and procedures for


                                                39

       establishing an independent regulatory body, drawing on recent worldwide experience regarding
       the regulation of the accountancyprofession.


   0   Sub-component 3.2. Establishmentand operationalization of the Financial Reporting Council as
       an independent regulatory body (USS1.87 million). This sub-component is to help establish an
       independent regulatory body, based on the report to be prepared under sub-component 3.1,
       provide financial support for its functioning during the initial years, and develop a plan for its
       financial sustainability beyond the period of support under the EMTAP for Government's
       endorsement.


   0   Sub-component 3.3. Strengthencapacities of ICAB (US$1.37 million). This will provide support
       for capacity building of the ICAB through twinning arrangement with a professional accountancy
       body of a developed country. This will also support local consultancy, and acquisition of
       computers, intemationalbooks and periodicals and development of library.

       Sub-component 3.4. Strengthen capacities of ICMAB (US$ 0.40 million}. This will support
       capacity building of the ICMAB with the assistance of a professional body of management
       accountantsof international standard. This will also support local consultancy, and acquisition of
       computers, intemationalbooks and periodicals and development of library.

       Sub-component 3.5. Strengthen capacities of Bangladesh Bank, SEC and Department of
       Insurance (US$ 0.15 million} .This will provide assistance for capacity building of Bangladesh
       Bank, Securities and Exchange Commission and Department of Insurance for enabling them to
       deal effectively and efficiently with issues relating to financial reporting by the regulated
       enterprisedentities.


   0   Sub-component 3.6. Comprehensiveprogram of education and training (US$ 2.04 million).
       This sub-component will provide assistance in improving curricula and quality of teaching of
       accounting and auditing by universities, colleges, ICAB, ICMAB and other entities to facilitate
       implementation of IAYIFRS and ISA through high quality education. The sub-component will
       support review of curricula, local and foreign programs for training of trainers, and provision of
       international books and periodicals and computers.

   0   Sub-component 3.7 :Logistical support to sub-project execution (USS0.05 million}. This i s to
       provide logistical support in the form of office equipment and related expenses to support
       implementation of the sub-project by the Ministry of Commerce and Finance Division


Lessonslearned and reflectedinthe component design

The ROSC- Accounting and Auditing exercise, which forms the basis for this component design, was
conducted inBangladeshalong with over thirty other countries with the following objectives:

   o   Assess extent to which domestic accounting and auditing standards fall short of international
       standards, as well as strengths and weaknesses of the institutional framework in supporting high
       quality financial reporting; and
   o   Assist Bangladesh in developing and implementing a country action plan, based on the policy
       recommendations of ROSC-Accounting and Auditing module, for improving institutional
       capacity to strengthenthe country's financial reporting regime.




                                               40

The ROSC identified that the accounting and auditing practices in Bangladesh suffer from institutional
weaknesses in regulation, compliance, and enforcement of standards and rules. The preparation of
financial statements and conduct of audits, in many cases, are not consistent with intemationally
acceptable standards and practices. Better qualified graduates generally do not join the accounting
profession because it is not viewed as a stepping stone to a rewarding and prestigious career. The
outdated legal requirements, widespread non-compliance with accounting and auditing standards,
ineffective enforcement mechanism, poor quality accounting education and training, and inadequate
adherence to professional ethics have contributed to the weakness of the financial reporting regime. A
major recommendation of the ROSC is that an independent regulatory body should be established -- a
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) which will be responsible for adoption, monitoring, and enforcement
of IAS/IFRS and ISA with respect to financial reporting by the public-interest entities. In addition,
arrangements will need to be made to develop a simplified financial reporting framework for small and
medium-sized enterprises. The proposed component would support these objectives.

The comprehensive accountancy development framework reflected in the proposed project was designed
through extensive dialogue with various stakeholders inBangladesh. Taking into account the experience
of accountancy reform in other countries, and the current status of accounting and auditing environment
inBangladesh, it was generally agreed that a long-termprogramof development would be necessary for
improving Bangladesh's financial reporting regime, in line with worldwide developments in this regard.
Experience shows that addressing one or two issues with small grant funds hardly produces desired
results with respect to accountancy reform and development. It i s necessary to take a comprehensive
approach, encompassing legislation, accounting profession, professional training, academic cumculum
and training, capacity of the regulators and enforcement mechanisms. From this perspective, piecemeal
interventions with IDFgrant appearedunlikely to support the neededreforms and development envisaged
under the component.

Government's readiness

The MOC and Finance Division have shown keen interest in the implementation of the component. The
MOC is the responsible Ministry for the oversight of the accounting profession in Bangladesh. The
Finance Division is responsible for the regulation of banking and securities market.     The Minister of
Finance and the Minister of Commerce signed off on the policy recommendations of the ROSC which
provided clearance to the Bank to publish the ROSC in accounting and auditing for Bangladesh. The
MOC and Finance Division have taken steps for setting up arrangements to implement the proposed
component, basedon the ROSC exercise for Bangladesh.

Institutionaland implementationarrangements

The sub-project will be executed by the Ministry of Commerce and Finance Division. A 10-member
Advisory Committee will advise on the implementation of the sub-components relating to ICAB while a
5-member Advisory Committee will advise on the implementationof the activities related to ICMAB.

Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

Legislative framework: Some vested interest groups may try to oppose the legal provisions to promote
transparency and accountability of the actions of the preparers and auditors of financial statements. This.
risk would be low because important stakeholders, like the leadersof the accountancy profession and the
business community, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Commerce, and leading academics in the
field of accounting, are ingeneral agreement with the Accounting and Auditing ROSC recommendations.




                                               41

Public discussions on the draft legislation involving major stakeholders would be organized to mitigate
this risk.

Capacity building: There is a risk of adopting international accounting and auditing standards without
developing appropriate capacity to implement these standards. Many countries officially adopted
international accounting and auditing standards during the past ten years. Lack of adequate capacity,
however, constrained proper application of these standards and the quality of financial reporting did not
improve much. In order to mitigate this risk in Bangladesh, this project proposes a comprehensive
framework of accountancy development which would strengthen capacity of the higher educational
institutions, professional accountancy bodies, existing regulatory bodies and the proposed public
accounting regulatory body. This capacity building will strengthen the infrastructure necessary for
supporting highquality financial reporting.

Effectiveoversightbetter implementationof the component

The Bank has proposed a high-level Oversight Committee to ensure implementation of activities towards
strengthening of the financial reporting regime in Bangladesh. Since implementation of ROSC
recommendations will cut across various Ministries and sectors, it has been suggestedthat this Committee
be composed of the Minister of Finance, Minister of Commerce and Minister of Education. It is
envisagedthat this Committee could support the effective implementationof proposals on new legislation
and a regulatory body concerning accounting and auditing, strengthening of enforcement mechanisms,
reform of professional accountancy bodies and introduction of modem curriculum and teaching methods
inaccounting and auditing.

COMPONENT 4 (US$4.06 million) PROMOTING INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY (ICT)

Sector issues andGovernmentstrategy

InBangladesh, Government use of Informationand CommunicationTechnologies (ICT), especially those
related to the internet, i s still underdeveloped.     The Ministry of Science and Information and
Communication Technology (MOSICT), the agency responsible for ICT related issues, has not yet been
able to achieve the goals set out for E-Governance inthe National ICT policy of 2002. The Government
of Bangladesh has inadequate capacity and infrastructure to harness the benefits of ICTs in improving
public sector management and processes. Use of ICTs within the Government is very limited and only a
limited number of civil servants have internet and email access. Furthermore, strategic ICT planning
skills are in short supply within the Government.

As a result, the Government has not been able to utilize ICT systems and applications to improve the
efficiency, transparency and quality of public services and processes. Interactions between Government
and citizens and businesses are often inefficient and cumbersome. Information stored in paper files i s
difficult to access and replicate. The flow of information between Government agencies i s also slow and
this delays the decision making process. A limited number of public agencies have websites containing
basic information, but these technologies have not been effectively utilized to facilitate and improve
information sharing within and between agencies.

The Government announced it's National Policy on ICT in October 2002. In the area of E-Governance,
the Government's specific policy statements are:




                                                42

    0   The Government shall use ICT system within the public administration to improve efficiency,
        reduce wastage of resources,enhanceplanning and raise the quality of services.
    e   Government shall implement wide-spread ICT systems to provide nation-wide coverage and
        access by any citizen to the Government databases and administrative systems which can be used
        to extend public services to the remotest comer.
    0   All Government Ministries, Divisions, Departments, autonomous bodies and all District
        headquarters, Upazilla headquarters and Union Parishad offices must be networked to the
        National Data Resource Centre in the shortest possible time. The centre shall be a system of
        national databases, having capacity to store and supply rapidly all necessary information on the
        economic, cultural and social situation of the country.
    0   Each Ministry, Division, Government body shall create an ICT Cell, to be managed and run by
        well-trained ICT professionals to plan, coordinate and implement ICT projects and services.
        Special compensation package, comparable to that of private sector, shall be introduced to
        encourageICT professionals.
    0   All Ministries, Divisions, agencies of Government and autonomous organizations shall set up
        web sites where all policy documents and information relevant to the public shall be posted as
        early as possible and regularly updated. There will be a web portal of Bangladesh Government
        from which link will be provided to the web sites, like e-forms, e-procurement, e-recruitment, e-
        results etc.
    0   Government will introduce and promote ICT-based services like G2G (Government to
        Government), G2E (Government to Employee), G2C (Government to Customer) etc.
    0   Preference shall be given to ICT-literate candidates for the purpose of recruitment in public
        offices. ICT-literacy shall also be evaluated in the annual confidential reports of officials to
        ensure utilization of ICT inthe public services.
    0   Inorder to establish database onthe secondary schools which areprovidingcomputers training at
        grass root level, MIS will be introduced.

The Government through both the Ministry of Planning and MOSICT has begun to implement limited
programs in line with the above policy, including: (i)       establishment of a Government web portal
(http://www,baneladesh,aov.bd);and (ii)    establishment of individual Ministry websites. The Ministry of
Planning i s currently undertaking a project to establish web presence for part of the 46 Government
Ministries. InJune 2003, the MOSICT and Bangladesh Computer Council (BCC) prioritized a number
of activities in the e-governance sphere to be implemented by the Government in the short term,
including: (i) building ICT infrastructure in all Government agencies; (ii) ICT training for all
                                                                             ensuring
Government employees; (iii)    appointing a Chief Information Officer ineach Government agency; and (iv)
ensuring that all Govemment organizations with whom citizens needto interact have a web presence. On
January 11, 2004, the Government's Cabinet Committee on Good Governance and Administrative
Reforms decided that the use of ICT in Government would be accelerated in order to bring about more
transparency inGovernment.

The Government of Bangladesh is committed to utilizing ICTs as a tool to improve Government
information flows and public sector management practices. Assisting the Government to meet this
objective i s in line with the Bank's own corporate and ICT strategy. Further, experience from both
developed and developing countries reveals that the effective introduction of modem information and
communication systems inGovernment can play a critical role inimproving the efficiency of Government
services inthe mediumto longterm.




                                                 43

Component Description

The component's development objective is to facilitate public sector management and processes by
improving information sharing within and outside the Government, by introducing information and
communication systems and tools in the public sector. Through this component, the project will address
issues of poor information flows and access within Government and the inadequate and inefficient use of
ICT in Government. The project will start with a more modest objective of providing support for the
required technology infrastructure in a core group of agencies without attempting to provide solutions to
the structural problems of the public sector. This component will provide the required ICT infrastructure
and training in a core group of Government MinistriesDivisions and agencies and support administrative
and regulatory measures to improve the use of ICT in the public sector, as a first step towards e-
government. In addition, the formulation of an action plan for development of the ICT sector will be
supported.

The sub-componentsinclude:

        Sub-component4.1. Preparation of an e-Government strategy and road map/action planfor ICT
        development (US$ 0.60 million). This sub-component will provide assistance to MOSICT to
        develop ane-Government strategy and a National ICT road map. The support will also be usedto
        carry out an assessment of the legal and regulatory changes required to ensure that all e-
        documentation filings and processesare recognized as being legally valid.

         Sub-component 4.2. Establishment of an electronic communication network within Government
        (US$ 3.10 million).        This sub-component will provide technical assistance for equipment
        specification and investment support in establishing an integrated government electronic
        communications network, consisting of e-mail, websites and an integrated records and
        information system.

        Sub-component 4.3 : Training of Government oficials in ICT (US$0.30 million). TA will be
        provided to develop and implement training programs to assist civil servants become IT literate,
        and develop a strategy to promote ICT use in Government.

        Sub-component4.4 Logistical supportfor sub-project management (US$0.02 million).

Lessonslearned and reflected inthe component design

Key lessons of experience that have been reflected inthe component design are that (i) awareness,
                                                                                       raising
interest and skill levels among the main stakeholders is important to ensure that they adopt the use of
ICTs in the public sector; (ii)   it is necessary to have a national ICT and e-Government strategy that
provides the roadmap for using ICTs more broadly to meet development goals; and (iii)        Government
should "e-enable'' processesand services after it has re-engineered internal processes to deliver services
transparently.

While the Government i s not ready to embark on a national e-Government program, it i s ready to
undertake the first steps to better utilize ICTs inthe public sector.




                                                  44

Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

All key Ministries will need to follow the guidelinesestablished by the MOSICT. MOSICT will be the
key implementing agency for this component, but will liaise closely with the Ministry of Planning in
order to ensurethat there i s no duplicationof efforts.

Criticalrisks andpossiblecontroversialaspects

                    Risk                             Risk Rating              RiskMitigationMeasure
1. Government revises its strategy on use of                              Collaborate      closely      with
ICT inthe public sector                                Modest            Govemment officials to assist them
                                                                         understand the    needs for    and
                                                                         benefits of using ICTs in the
                                                                         Government.
2. Government agencies are unable to work              Modest            Increase support for the component
closely with each other, especially with                                 from both the PM's Office and the
regard to information sharing                                            MOSICT to implement the program.
3. Low quality of technical outputs                   Negligible         Bank    oversight   of   terms   of
                                                                         reference, selection and work of
                                                                         technical exDerts.

COMPONENT 5 (US$0.4 million) STRENGTHENINGSTRATEGIC COMUNICATION
BETWEENGOVERNMENT AND STAKEHOLDERS.

Strategiccontextand rationale

The Government of Bangladesh aims at improving core economic management capacities and functions
of the public administrationacross a broadrange of sectors. Inorder to mobilize support for its continuing
reform initiatives and create social ownership of reforms, the Government needs a much more efficient,
responsive and strategic communication mechanism in place. Reform programs in the past have often
stalled due to popular opposition, either perceived or real. Sometimes local concerns overshadow the big
picture of greater public good associated with reforms. Insufficient communications about the benefits of
reforms have been a significant factor. Government has not been able to get its messages across and
neither has it been able to listen, understandand address the people's concerns adequately.

The Govemment's efsorts in communicating reforms have been sporadic and lacked coordination and a
strategic approach. Insufficient expertise and resources devoted to communications, and inadequate
coordination leave the government ill-equipped to expand its communications to the broader public.
While the Press Information Department (PID) of the Ministry of Information plays a limited role in
coordination among different Ministries, it is more at a receiving end and does not contribute much to the
substance of communication.

Inadequatepublic relations professionals in the Govemment. The Government lacks a cadre of public
relations professionals who would be able to communicate the reform objectives to the public on behalf of
the policy makers. Public deliberations on reforms should be constantly supported by communication
professionals, be that in the form of public speeches or media interviews. In addition, such
communication professionals should have the right expertise and ideally be empowered to act as
Government spokespersonsto elaborate on reform issues, when needed.




                                                  45

Individual reforms are seen out of context. There is inadequate public understanding of the economic
reform efforts, and their greater goal of improving the lot of the people and increasing the overall socio-
economic strength of the country.

There is resistance to reforms. This comes partly from the people who would be adversely affected by
reforms, and partly from vested interests who have in many ways been benefited from the continuity of
the status quo. The genuine concerns of those who would be affected are not being addressed and
remedial measures are not being explained adequately. The political apprehensions stemming from the
more audible organized voices of resistance are sometimes exaggeratedand are not counteracted by any
strategic communicationto explain the greater public good, which would helpmobilize larger support for
reforms.

Communication is largelyflowing in one direction. This back-fires and i s often seen as propaganda.
While Govemment officials express support for communications to build consensus for reform, there i s
little evidence yet of commitment to systematic, effective dialogue, providing real opportunity for the
opinions and concerns of stakeholders (from the national to the local level) to have some effect on the
nature and timing of reforms, and thus increasing their chances of social and political acceptance.

Some communication mechanisms are there but not properly utilized. The Ministry of Information is
assignedthe responsibility of Government's communication with the public. However, that role has been
defined  more in terms of publicity for the Govemment, rather than two-way communication in the true
sense of the term, and hence the role suffers from lack of credibility. The Ministry of Information with its
12 agencies and elaborate mechanism for field presence at the district level, staffed by people from the
Information Cadre, has a good potential for a much better communicationon reformissues.

Global experience indicates that the Government would benefit from a strategic communicationsprogram
that untilnow has beenmissinginmost reform initiatives. Since the Bank i s supporting the Government's
reform initiatives in many areas, it can also help the Govemment create larger social ownership of the
reformmeasures through a communicationprogram. The Bank can also draw from global experience and
help the Govemment inthis regard.

Component Description

Recognizingthe need for better communication, the Govemment i s keen to build institutional capacity to
pursue the following objectives;

     o   Build consensus and ownership on the economic reform program and build credibility through
         participationof all involved parties;
     o   Promote an informed two-way dialogue with key stakeholders on the reformagenda; and
     o   Increasebroad-based understanding of relevant issues through a systematic and well-coordinated
         public information and education effort.

The following sub-componentsare planned:


     0   Sub-component5.1. Establishment of a Strategic Communications Unit.
         For better communication on reforms, a Strategic Communications Unit (SCU) will be
         established. The Press Information Department (PID) of the Ministry of Information has, among
         other things, a fully equipped news roomwhich coordinates with Information Officers indifferent
         Ministries, a cell for analyzing media trends, a research cell, a clipping section and conference
         facilities. The Information Officers are appointees, sometimes officers at the level of Senior



                                                 46

Assistant Secretary, of the Ministry of Information, stationed in different Ministries. Besides, PID
works closely with : the Department of Films and Publications (DFP), responsible for production
of various communication materials; Department of Mass Communication (DMC), responsible
for public dissemination; National Institute of Mass Communication (NIMCO), responsible for
training of Government officials; and the Press Institute of Bangladesh (PIB), responsible for
training of journalists. It also works directly with the media. Given the support systemalready in
place, PID appearsto be the naturaland appropriate locationfor a Strategic Communications Unit
to oversee such a communications program.

The SCU may be headedby a senior Communication Advisor, with appropriate authority given to
hidher to liaise with and advise senior functionaries of the Government on communication
issues related to reforms and to supervise the preparation of a communication strategy. The
Advisor would be a strategic thinker and planner with good communications skills. Inthe day-to-
day work, the Communication Advisor should be supported by a Communications Manager. The
SCU should also be given the authority to pull resources from various parts of the Government.

The SCU should have representations from all relevant Ministries and agencies dealing with
reforms and the support units of the Ministry of Information. Inaddition, it would be important to
include a specialist on participation or labor relations professional as well as a media relations
specialist. The SCU must have strong institutional links with the Prime Minister's Office; the
Ministry of Finance, PlanningCommission and Ministry, and other relevant line Ministries.

The SCU will reposition the Government's reform actions as pro-people, strategically deploy
messages and champions of reforms, set communication agenda in the light of sociaYpolitica1
environment, be inclusive in communication efforts using a multi-faceted approach that would
also ensure appropriate feedback, ensure consistency in Government's statements about reforms,
and launchcommunication, basedon researchand analyses.

Sub-component 5.2. Strengthening training capacity in strategic communication.
Ownership of the communications program by the Government i s essential. Key Government
officials will participate in a training to learn the value and methods of strategic communications
for reforms. The National Institute of Mass Communication (NIMCO), which i s responsible for
training the Government officials, will be provided with support to revamp its training curricula
to meet these needs. Such training should be mandatory for all officers of the Information Cadre
and those involved incommunicationfor reforms.

Sub-component5.3. Establishing an integrated E-network.
The Government i s considering bringingthe SCU and all relevant Ministries and offices under an
e-network for better coordination. Also, a website should be created or PID's website should be
revamped to include communication for reform issues, with opportunities for dialogue with and
comments from stakeholders.

Sub-component5.4. Enhancing communication capacity in some important ofices.
While the SCU will be the central coordinating unit preparing strategy and providing overall
guidance for communication, some offices of the Government will need to meet the
communication demands on a day-to-day basis. For example, the Prime Minister's Office, the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Industries, the Ministry of
Commerce, Bangladesh Bank, Board of Investment, and Privatization Commission need
communicationcapacity and mechanism inplace that can cater to the regular demands. With this
in view, the terms of reference and the level of authority of the staff responsible for



                                          47

         communication in these agencies need to be revisited, and if necessary, redefined and enhanced
         with appropriate capacity needed. In addition, the Department of Films and Publication and the
         Department of Mass Communication should be revamped with adequate technological and skills
         support to meet the demands of the state-of-the-art audio-visual media.

         Sub-component 5.5 :Additional activities to support strategic communicationfor reform. These
         activities are being developed and will be agreed upon between the Ministry of Information and
         the Bank.

Government'sreadiness

Several officials in the Government expressed the need for better communication for reforms. They
identified the absence of required skills, appropriate institutional arrangements and strategy for
communicatingreforms, both at the central level and inrelevant agencies.

Sustainability

Reforms work only if there is a larger political commitment and social ownership. This cannot be ensured
without proper communication. The Government will continue to undertake reforms in various areas and
will continue to need a good mechanismfor communicationfor reforms. This programwill help lay down
the institutional mechanism and the momentum for the needed improvements . The perceived need for
communication will provide the necessaryincentive for the Government to keep it sustainable.

Criticalrisksandpossiblecontroversialaspects

The Government needs better communication, just for everything, and that includes also pursuingits own
agenda for other purposes. With an institutional mechanism in.placeand appropriate skills available, there
i s a possibility that these may be used for purposes other than communication for reforms. The
Government and the Bank team will work on preparation of clear guidelines for institutional mechanisms
being created or enhanced under this program, on how they can support reforms in order to clearly define
what i s being supported under this program

COMPONENT 6 (US$0.16million LOGISTICAL AND CONSULTANCY SUPPORT TO THE
WORLD BANKBRANCH-1OFERDINCENTRALMANAGEMENTOFEMTAP.

This is to provide logistical support and short-term consultancy services to the above branch of ERD in
centrally coordinatingand managing the overall implementationof EMTAPefficiently. It includes:
         Sub-component 6.1: Logistical support in the form of office equipment, computers, furniture and
         supplies and other recurrent costs (US$0.07 million)
    0    Sub-component 6.2 :Workshops, seminars and other dissemination activities relating to EMTAP
         (US$O.Ol million).
         Sub-component 6.3 : Short-term and needs-based procurement consultancy services and
         independent post audit of procurement, on sample basis by chartered accountancy firms (US$O.OS
         million).




                                                 48

                               ANNEX 5:         PROJECT COSTS
Project Cost By Component andor Activity               Local      Foreign      Total
                                                     US$ million US$ million US$ million

1.Modernizingrevenue administration                     0.92        3.10        4.02
2. ImplementingROSC accounting and auditing             3.15        2.98        6.13
policy recommendations
3. Development of ICT strategy and promoting             1.48       2.58        4.06
ICT use inthe Government
4. Strengthening communicationbetween                   0.30        0.10        0.40
Government and stakeholders
5. Strengthening government capacities for better       2.99         5.24        8.23
policy formulation and implementation, project
planning and evaluation, and improving the
functioning of the civil service and administration.
6. Augmenting capacity of WB Branch-1 of ERD             0.16        0.00        0.16
to coordinate and manageimplementationof
EMTAP


Total Baseline Cost                                      9.00      14.00       23.00
 Physical Contingencies                                  0.40        0.60        1.oo
 Price Contingencies                                     0.40        0.60        1.oo
                                Total Project Costs      9.80      15.20       25.00

                         Total FinancingRequired         9.80      15.20       25.00




                                             49

                         ANNEX 6:           IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS

An important objective of EMTAPis to mainstream its implementation within the Government's existing
systems, involvingthe Government officials and staff directly. It has been agreedthat the project will be
managed by the ERD of the Ministry of Finance. The WB-Branch 1of ERD will be responsible for the
overall management of EMTAP. The NBR will be the executing agency for the tax modernization
component. Two agencies will be responsible for implementing the component relating to strengthening
of accounting and auditing : (a) the MOC will be executing the sub-components relating to ICAB,
ICMAB and education and training in accounting and auditing; and (b) the Finance Division will be
executing the sub-components relating to the formulation of a financial reporting act, the establishment
and operationalization of a financial reportingregulatory body, and the strengthening of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Bangladesh Bank and the Department of Insurance. The MOSICT will be
executing the component for development of ICT. The MOI will be implementing the component for
strengthening strategic communication. The WB Branch-I of ERD will be executing a sub-project to
support the overall management of EMTAP. New components that will be approved during the life of
EMTAP under the unallocated Component 1 of the project would be implemented by the sponsoring
Ministry or agency that i s incharge of the activities.

Given that the EMTAPi s an umbrella operation, there i s a need for effective oversight and coordination
because the related policies and issues typically go beyond the purview of a single agency. It has,
therefore, been agreed that an inter-ministerial Steering Committee, with Secretary-level officials or their
delegated representatives, from ERD, Finance Division, Socio-Economic Infrastructure Division of
Planning Commission, Ministry of Establishment and IMED, will be constituted to play this role.                            16   I t s
main functions will include : (i)      assessing the priority of the TA sub-projects and related activities, in
terms of consistency with the strategic framework and priority objectives of the sector strategy presented
in the I-PRSP; (ii)     monitoring the policy aspects and implications of the sub-projects supported under
EMTAP; and (iii)monitoring achievement of objectives and outcomes of EMTAP, and initiating
adequate measures to effectively address constraints that might be affecting the efficient implementation
of EMTAP and the full realization of expected results.                          The counterpart team, composed of
representatives from ERD,Finance Division, PlanningCommission and MOE, i s expected to be available
for consultation and assistance duringimplementationof EMTAP.

The capacity of the team in the WB Branch-1 of ERD managing EMTAP i s to be augmented through
adequate staffing by Government officials with relevant experience, so as to strengthen the
administration, monitoring, reporting and coordination of all sub-projectskomponents supported under
EMTAP. A Deputy Secretary of ERD, heading this branch, has been nominated to lead the coordination
and management of the program. A Senior Assistant Secretary of this branch of ERD has been assigned
to work closely in the overall coordination and management of EMTAP. Other Government officials
from ERD, or on deputation from other Ministries or agencies, with experience in three relevant areas --
including financial management, procurement and accounting -- would be involved in program
managementby ERD. Personnel of executing agencies working on various sub-projects supported under
EMTAP would include, among others, Government officials with adequate experience in accounting.
The personnel of ERDand other executing agencies working on the programwould participate intraining
on financial management, procurement and disbursement, including those organized by the CPTU for
training inprocurement.

ERD would be reviewing progress of implementation periodically and taking appropriate measures to
address constraints that might be affecting management and implementation of EMTAP, including timely


l6The representation of MOE in the Steering Committee reflects the fact that institutional capacity building i s a key cross-cutting
objective of EMTAP, and this has implications for personnel management policies andpractices for all Government entities.


                                                        50

preparation of TA proposals and approval of sub-projects of appropriate quality, utilization of funds, and
addressinginter-agency, aid coordinationand other relevant issues.

The existing Government systemfor project processing and approval would be followed for new
sub-projects to be considered for funding under EMTAP.17 There will, however, be more intensive
scrutiny of quality for TA sub-projects seeking funding under EMTAP. Sub-project proposals will be
initiated by the potential implementing agencies in the form of draft TAPPs prepared by the entities.
Implementation agencies may have informal consultations with the World Bank in the initial stages of
TAPP preparation in order to obtain feedback for prospective TA activities seeking funding under
EMTAP, irrespective of the level of sub-project cost. This would be followed by review of the TAPPs
by the relevant line Ministries. Following incorporation of the line Ministries' comments, the draft TAPPs
would be sent to the relevant sector Division of the Planning Commission. The Finance Division would
concurrently review sub-project proposals, with both Development Wing and Budget Wing providing
their feedback, especially on the budgetary implications of the project proposals. In addition, draft
TAPPs would be sent by the line Ministries through the WB Branch-1 of ERD to the World Bank for its
comments. The Bank's comments would be sent through the WB Branch-1 of ERD to the relevant
Ministry and executing agency. In the case of sub-projects that the Bank might agree to consider
supporting, the Bank's comments would needto be incorporated inthe TAPP to qualify for funding. The
revised TAPPs would then be forwarded to the relevant authority for review and approval. Inthe case of
sub-projects above the threshold for approval by line Ministries, TAPPs would be reviewed by the
Special Project EvaluationCommittee (SPEC), and, if recommended, they would be sent for the Planning
Minister's approval. Upon receipt of the approved TAPPs, the World Bank Branch-1 of ERD will submit
them to the Bank for its "no objection."        Once the Bank's clearance i s obtained, copies of the approved
TAPPs would be sent to the executing agencies for implementation, while additional copies would be
sharedwith the Finance Divisionand World Bank and retained by the WB Branch-1of ERDfor its record
and necessary actions. Inthe case of sub-projects with total cost of less than Tk 10million (existing limit
for approval by Ministries), the current system of approval by DSPEC in line Ministries, subject to
comments and revisions suggestedby the Development and Budget Wings of Finance Division and those
of the World Bank, would be followed.

Given that processing and approval of TAPPs under the existing system has been subject to considerable
delays in the past, it has been agreed that a time limit of a maximum of 10 weeks, for obtaining TAPP
approval for prospective sub-projects, following the Bank's "no objection", would be considered and
efforts made to enforce it. The processing of TAPPs would be tracked closely as part of monitoringby the
WB Branch-1 of ERD and the monitoring reports would be distributed to relevant entities, particularly for
appropriate interventions where processing has been unduly delayed.

A Government-donor working group has been reviewing the system of project processing, including that
for TA projects. The format of TAPPs and the system of TA project processing/approval are expected to
be streamlined and it is envisaged that the new system will be introduced in the near future. The
processing of sub-projects under EMTAP would follow the new system once it i s adopted and benefit
from associatedimprovements.

Guiding principles for considering funding of TA sub-projects under EMTAP to utilize unallocated
resources under Component 1of EMTAPhave been agreed with the Government and new proposals will
bereviewedinthe context of these principles.


l7The process of TAPP review/approvali s expectedto be streamlined and the new systemi s expectedto be introducedin FYOS.
When the new systemis inplacethe EMTAPprocessingwill follow the new process.




                                                     51

    ANNEX 7:            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS

Implementing Agencies and Financial Management Capacities : The financial management and
disbursement arrangements for implementing EMTAP will be under the Government's existing system,
involving its officials closely inthe implementation. EMTAPwill be implemented through a number of
sub-projects in various areas by different implementingagencies.The WB Branch-1 o f ERD, headedby a
Deputy Secretary, will be responsible for leading the centralized management and effective coordination
of EMTAPand sub-project activities executedby various implementingagencies.

An assessment of the financial management capacities of ERD was carried out and concluded that its
capacity to manage utilization of IDA funds under EMTAPwill need to be strengthened. Although ERD
implemented a number of IDA-financed umbrella TA credits (TA 1-6) up to the late nineties, limited
capacity is available at present             in managing IDA funds. Overall, ERD TA Cell's                     implementation
performance was rated satisfactory in the ICR of the TA-6 project (IDA Credit 2393-BD). It was
observed that the TA Cell lacked sufficient professional staff to undertake effective supervision and
monitoring and execute timely disbursement of funds inthe initial three years. However, implementation
performance improved significantly after mid-term review. At the time of project closing, ERD was
contemplating further improvements by establishing a Wing with professional staff that would constitute
a focal point for implementing donor-funded technical assistance, but no such sustainable capacity was
built up. ERD, unlike other Government bodies, does not have a Department to look after its financial
management aspects, and has not retained the personnel involved with the financial management of the
IDA-financed TA projects. Therefore, additional Government personnel will be required to be transferred
on deputation to work on a full-time basis, as part of WB Branch-1, for the management of EMTAP. The
FM arrangement that has been agreed, as elaborated in the rest of this annex, is adequate to meet the
needs of the project.

A qualified Government accounts official, with adequate knowledge and experience in accounting,
finance, computerized accounting system and IDA financial management and disbursement requirements
will be appointed as Deputy Director (Finance).               '*Thisofficial        will be responsible for looking after all
the financial management functions of the project, including managing the operation of the Special
Account for disbursing IDA funds for all the sub-projects executed by various implementing agencies,
and preparing consolidated Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and other financial reports for the
overall project for submission to IDA and various Government agencies.                          In addition, a Government
Accounts Officer with adequate experience will need to be appointed to look after the financial
management needs of the sub-project to be executed by WB Branch 1and to assist the Deputy Director
(Finance) on overall project financial management.                 l9    The job description of these two officers have
been agreed upon with the Government, and their appointment in WB Branch-1 will be a condition of
Grant effectiveness.

The components that have already been specified in the EMTAP will be implemented by NBR, MOC,
Finance Division, MOSICT and MOI. While NBR and MOC have some experience in implementing
Bank-funded and other donor-funded projects, MOSICT has been involved in implementing only
Government-funded projects. Since financial management capacity in these agencies is likely to be
limited, Government Accountants would need to be assigned or appointed by each of the implementing
agencies to look after the financial management needs of the respective sub-projects, as described below.



  Preferably from the audit and accounts service, with educatiodtraining inaccountingandfinance.
l9It has been suggested that the official for this position could be of the rank of anAccounts Officer, from the audit and accounts
service.


                                                             52

The appointment of Accountants for each component is a pre-condition for withdrawal of funds for the
component from the Special Account.


    0    Receiving and processing for payment of all bills for supply of goods and services for the sub-
         project.
    0    Maintaining a Bill Register tracking various steps in the process, from the receipt of the bills
         through the actual payment from IDA Special Account and Chief Accounts Officer's office, GOB
         and preparing contract-wise monthly status report.
    0    Obtaining approval of the Drawing and Disbursement Officer on Government's share of the bills
         and presenting those to the Chief Accounts Officer (CAO) of the Ministry for payment and
         answering its pre-audit queries. Receiving cheques from CAO and delivering those to the
         beneficiary against acknowledgement of receipt.
    0    Preparing monthly Pay bills for officers and staff of the sub-project and arranging disbursements
         after passingthe bills from CAO's office.
    0    Preparing letters and supporting expenditure statement for quarterly release of fund allocated by
         GOB in the ADP and following up with the relevant Ministry, Ministry of Finance or Planning
         Commission, as required, for securing the release of funds.
    0    Preparing annual budget estimates, revised budget recommendations and quarterly disbursement
         forecasts.
    0    Sending the bills to the WB Branch-1 of ERD for payment of IDA'Sshare of cost financing,
         together with evidence that Government's share of the bills has been approved and paid, and
         updatingthe bills register on receipt of the payment advice from the WB Branch-1of ERD.
    0    Interfacing with external auditors (FAPAD) -- providing books, documents, contracts and other
         information to the auditors - replying to audit objections, arranging tripartite meetings and
         providing further documentation insettling audit objections.
    0    Preparing and submitting inputs for FMRs and other financial reports/ information to the WB
         Branch-1 of ERD, the relevant Ministry and World Bank supervision missions.
    0    Dealing with cash payments for petty office expenses of the sub-project.

It is very important that staff working under EMTAP are fully familiarized with IDA disbursement
policies and procedures. Therefore, the above mentioned accounts officials and other relevant staff from
the WB Branch-1 and executing agencies will be required to receive training on IDA disbursement
policies and procedures, as well as procurement and financial management. This training should be
organized with suitable resource persons, including Bank staff, and completed ideally before submission
of the first replenishment application under the proposed Grant.

Book Keeping and Reporting: The WB Branch-1will maintain the Books of Accounts of the project as
a whole on cash basis, using the double entry book keeping principle. Cash and Bank Book, General
Ledger, BillRegister for tracking bills received and paid for each sub-project, Inventory and Fixed Assets
Register and Bank Reconciliation will need to be maintained on a regular basis. The official responsible
for financial management at ERD will prepare a comprehensive chart of accounts for the project to
capture costs by sub- projects, GOB line items, PP heads and project components.           A computerized
accounting system will be developed for the project, preferably by customizing an off-the-shelf
accounting package software to save time.          The WB Branch-1 will follow Government's Project
Accounting Manual in maintenance of project books and reporting to various monitoring and control
agencies of GOB. Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), namely Sources and Uses of Fund, Project
Expenditures by Activities, Procurement Status Report and Projects Physical Progress Report, will be
prepared by the WB Branch-1 and submitted to IDA on a quarterly basis, within 45 days after the end of




                                                   53

each quarter. Report formats were agreed upon during negotiations.                   2o  Quarterly progress monitoring
report of each implementingagency will be acceptedas Physical ProgressReport of FMRs.

Each implementing agency, through its sub-project management team, will be responsible for executing
all procurement activities, includingexecution of contracts, review, approval and certification of the bills
for its part of the project activities and submitting the approved billshnvoice and copies of signed
contracts to the WB Branch-1for arranging payment of IDA'Sshare of financing of the costs through the
Special Account. The WB Branch-I of ERD will not make payment of any bill out of the Special
Account unless the evidence of payment of Government's share of the bill i s provided by sub-project
authority.

The sub-project managementteams' Accountants will maintain registers for contracts andbills, record the
amount and status of the bills of eachcontract by dates of receipt, dates of certification for payment, dates
of transfer to the WB Branch-I and dates of payment by the WB Branch-I for effecting payment. Each
sub-project management team will also maintain a Procurement Register for tracking the various steps in
contracting various packagesfrom the stage of inviting bids through the conclusion of the contracts.

Auditing Arrangement: The WB Branch-I will prepare one set of consolidated financial statementsfor
the overall project, covering all the sub-projects. The Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate (FAPAD)
under C&AG will carry out the annual audit of the project based on this set of consolidated project
financial statements. A single audit report will cover the entire project, includingall its components. The
auditors will submit the required audited financial statements within six months from the end of a fiscal
year.

ERD implemented aBank-financed TA-6 Project inthe nineties. The covenant for submission of audited
financial statementswas complied with and the ICR didnot highlightany audit issue. However, a number
of audit objections still remains unresolved for some of the sub-projects. To resolve the outstanding audit
issues, ERDhas preparedan actionplan and this i s acceptableto the Bank.

Fund Flow and DisbursementArrangement:                      Disbursements and withdrawal of funds from the IDA
Grant shall be made under traditional disbursement method through one Special Deposit Account in U S
dollar, to be maintained in Bangladesh Bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The WB
Branch-I      will be responsible for operating the Special Deposit Account, including preparing and
submitting withdrawal applications to IDA for claiming reimbursements on a monthly basis, against
procurement under all the sub-projects implemented by different agencies.                       The project management
team for sub-projects will supervise the contracts' execution and certify the bills for their respective part
of the project activities and transfer the bills to the WB Branch-I for effecting payments of IDA'Sshare of
project cost financing.   21



The Government will finance US$ 5.0 million, or 20% of the estimated total project cost, and will
allocate the counterpart funds, to be reflectedinthe ADP, and will release the funds for the overall project
on a quarterly basis. The released counterpart funds will be disbursed by the relevant Chief Accounts
Officer (CAO) through settlement of the bills presentedby sub-project management teams, by cheques in
favor of the beneficiaries.




2o The contentsof the table on physical progress would be discussed and agreed uponby end-August, 2004.
21  While forwarding the bills to WB Branch 1, executingagency of the sub-project shouldprovide evidence of payment of the
Govemment's share of financing relating to the bills to ensure that all eligible payments have been made before submission of
reimbursementclaims to IDA.


                                                        54

The overall FM risk associated with the project has been assessed as high, partly because of multiple
implementing agencies. Assignment of appropriate FM staff has been agreed with Govemment as a
condition for accessing resources under the project.     In addition, the capacity of FM staff will be
strengthened through training on Bank's disbursement and FM policies and procedures. Adequate
arrangement for reporting by various agencies and centralized FM monitoring by ERD will be in place.
These measures will help mitigate the FMrisk. At the start of project implementation, the risk i s expected
to be contained within a medium-risk level.

Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOE):            Transaction-based disbursement procedures will be
applicable for withdrawal of Grant funds. IDA will require full documentation for all prior review
contracts which exceed in value the equivalent of (a) US$ 300,000 for goods contracts; (b) US$lOO,OOO
for services and training contracts with firms (c) US$50,000 for services contracts with individuals.
Expenditures below the above threshold and all incremental operating costs of WB Branch-1 and sub-
project management teams will be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE). IDA will
carry out post review of SOEs to assess compliance of fund utilization with intended purposes and terms
of the Development Grant Agreement. Any deviations noticed during supervision missions or
independent reviews would be noted and communicated to the recipient for remedy and improvement.

Special Account: For utilization of IDA's share of project expenditures, WB Branch-1 will open and
maintain with Bangladesh Bank a Special Deposit Account in US dollars under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The authorized allocation in respect of the Special Deposit Account will be US$
2,000,000 ;provided, however, that the authorized allocation will initially be limited to US$ 1,000,000
untilthe total withdrawal from the Grant accountreachesthe equivalent of SDR 5,000,000

The WB Branch-1 will be responsible for making payments of IDA's share of eligible expenditures from
the Special Account for all sub-projects and for preparing and submittingwithdrawal applications to IDA
on a monthly basis. If there i s no expenditure from the Special Account in a given month, the WB
Branch-1 will be required to submit a copy of the bank statement, without any withdrawal application.
It is expected that all expenditures eligible for IDA financing shall normally be made from the Special
Account. However, in order to avoid cash flow problems inthe operation of the Special Account, direct
payment withdrawal applications may be submitted to IDA provided, however, that the value of such
individual withdrawal application is equivalent to about 25% of the authorized allocation to the Special
Account.

Retroactive financing. There is no retroactive financing under the project.

The project implementationperiod is five years (FY05-09) but the disbursement of IDA Grants under the
project could be carried over to FY10 for eligible withdrawal applications that might be received within
four months beyondthe Grant closing date for expenditure that would be made or payments that would be
due for goods or services delivered or performed prior to the closing date. The categories of expenditures
to be supported under the project and the percentage of expenditures to be financed by IDA for various
expenditure categories are indicated inTable C below :




                                                 55

                              Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

     Expenditure Category                                                     Percentage of
                                                                               Expenditures
                                                                              to be financed
Goods (including equipment,      Components 2,                        100%of foreign expenditures,
computers, accessories, books,      3,4 and 6           5.10         100%of local expenditures (ex-
journals, supplies, furniture                                         factory costs) and 70% of local
and vehicles)                    Components 1                          expenditures for other items
                                      and 5             2.30
                                                                             procured locally
Consultants' Services,           Components 2,
Training, Workshop, Seminar         3,4 and 6           5.16

and other Dissemination          Components 1                                       80%
Activities                            and 5             3.62

IncrementalOperating Costs       Components 2,
                                    3,4 and 6            1.15           80% duringFYs05 and 06,
                                  Components 1                          70% duringFYs07 and 08,

                                      and 5             0.67                and 60% thereafter

Unallocated                                             2.00

             Total                                      20.00


"Incremental Operating Costs" means the costs of salaries and allowances of incremental staff, other than
regular Government employees, and office operating expenses of World Bank Branch-1 of ERD and
various executing agencies for management of EMTAPand implementationof components respectively,
and total operating costs of a new financial oversight body, envisaged to be established with support
under the component relating to strengthening of accounting and auditing.




                                               56

                                        ANNEX 8: PROCUREMENT


General

1.      The total cost of the project is US$ 25.0 million, of which IDA Grant will finance US$ 20
million. The project will largely involve procurement of consultants' services and training including
capacity building, valued at around US$ 14 million, followed by procurement of goods valued at around
US$ 8 million.

2.      Rulesand Guidelines: All IDA-financed procurement of goods usinginternationalcompetitive
bidding (ICB) will follow procedures outlined in the Bank's "Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" (current edition).            Consulting services and training obtained through
internationaladvertisement (dgMarket/ UNDB online) will follow the Bank's "Guidelines: Selection and
Employmentof Consultantsby World Bank Borrowers" (current edition). All local procurement of goods
and services for which the shortlist entirely comprises national consultants will follow the Government's
new procurement regulations (The Public Procurement Regulations 2003), acceptable to the Bank (goods
costing < US$300,000, and consultants' services costing < US$200,000 for firms and < US$50,000 for
individual consultants).

3.      Procurement Responsibility. The Economic Relations Division, Ministry of Finance, through
WB Branch-1, will be responsible for the centralized management and effective coordination of the
overall project and sub-project activities of different implementing agencies. At this stage, the identified
executing agencies are NBR, MOC, Finance Division, MOSICT and Ministry of Information. However,
duringimplementation of the project other agencies are expectedto be identified. The WB Branch-1will
have, among others, one Government/public procurement staff (own or on lien from other agency) to
handle procurement under the project.       In addition,    there is provision for needs-based short-term
procurement consultancy services, under the supervision of the WB Branch-1, to assist and advise the
executing agenciesinprocurement matters, if necessary.

Goods(- US$8 million)

4.      Most goods will be procured following international competitive bidding, followed by national
competitive biddingand shopping procedures for small-valued contracts, as applicable.

(i)     ZCB: Goods and equipment contracts estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more per
contract would be procured using ICB.           This will include: Government electronic network, ICT
equipment, etc.

(ii)    NCB: Goods and equipment contracts estimated to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured usingNCB. This includes: office equipment, computers, etc.

(iii)   Znternational/National Shopping- IS/ NS:           Goods of very small contracts or individual
purchases of off-the-shelf items may be procured, through prudent shopping procedures, inpackages with
an estimated value less than US$ 20,000 equivalent per contract. This includes: audio-visual equipment,
photocopiers, air conditioners, etc

(iv) Direct Contructing-DC:Individual contracts costing less than US$2,000 equivalent may be procured
following DC. This includes computer software, books, journals, magazines, etc.




                                                  57

Consultants' Services, Training, Workshop, Seminar and other Dissemination Activities (about US$
14million)

5.       IDA will finance consultants' services includingtraining valued at around US$ 11million.

(i) Qual@- and Cost- Based Selection (QCBS): Consulting services through firms estimated to cost
US$750,000 equivalent or more per contract will be procured following QCBS. Assignments include:
twinning arrangement with international bodies, consultants for financial reporting, legislation and
regulation, etc.

(ii) Quality- and Cost- Based Selection (QCBS)/ Fixed Budget Selection (FBS): Services through firms
estimated to cost less than US$750,000 equivalent per contract may be procured following either QCBS
or FBS. Contracts may include: information and communication technology strategy, e-government
strategy, procurement and financial audits, etc.

(iii) Fixed Budget Selection (FBS)/ Least-Cost Selection (LCS):Services through fmestimated to cost
less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be procured followingeither FBS or LCS.

iv) Single-Source Selection (SSS): Specific consultants' services through f m s , satisfying Consultants'
Guidelines (paragraph 3.8 to 3.11) and with estimated cost less than US$ 300,000 equivalent per contract,
may be procuredfollowing SSS.

(v) Individual Consultants (IC):Services for assignments for which teams of personnel are not required
and the experience and qualifications of the individual are the paramount requirement will be procured
through individuals inaccordance with Section V of the Consultants Guidelines when international and in
accordance with nationalrules when local. Individuals will be selectedon the basis of their qualifications
for the assignment. Individual consultants include: MIS/ICT consultant, procurement consultant, etc.

6.       Provision for training is included.      Most training of individuals and staff members for
strengthening capacity will be implemented through single source contracting, with some through firms.

IncrementalOperating Costs(- US$3 million)

7. Incremental operating costs will be financed by IDA on a declining basis. This includes: incremental
salaries of recruited personnel, operation and maintenance of vehicles, logistics, utilities, supplies and
stationeries.

Procurement and SelectionPlanning

8.       The initial draft Procurement Plan for goods, and Selection Plan for services were finalized and
agreed duringnegotiations. The Plan will cover the initial 18 months of the project, with the provision of
adjustments duringthis period, and thereafter may be updated as needed or annually, covering always the
next 18 months of project implementation. The use of the procurement methods defined in the Plan is
mandatory. Prior to issuance of any invitation for bids for procurement of goods and selection of
services, the proposed Plan shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the respective Guidelines. Procurement of goods and
selection of all consultants will be undertaken inaccordancewith Plans approved by IDA.




                                                 58

Use of Standard Documents

9.      For ICB procurement of goods, the use of IDA's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) is
mandatory. For NCB procurement, implementing agencies will use the Government's Standard Bidding
Documents acceptable to IDA. For selection of international consulting firms, the Bank`s Standard
Request for Proposals (RFP), including standard contract form will be used; for local consultants
Government's procedure laid out in the national regulations, including its documentation, will apply.
Depending on the type of procurement, the Bank's or Government's Standard Bid/ Proposal Evaluation
Formwill be followed for submission of evaluation reports.

Prior Review Thresholds

10.     Goods: During the initial 18 months of the project, IDA will carry out prior review of the
following contracts: (i)   goods- all contracts estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more and the
first contract for each agency, regardless of the value and method. After 18 months, the above thresholds
will be reviewedredefined inthe revised procurement plan, if necessary.

11.      Consultants' Services: IDA's prior review will be required for consultants' services contracts
estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more for firms and US$50,000 equivalent or more for
individuals. All single-source contracts will be subject to prior agreement by IDA.

PostReview/ ProcurementAudit

12.     For assessing compliance with the Bank's procurement procedures, IDA will carry out sample
post review of contracts that are below its prior review threshold.    The project also includes funds for
carrying out procurement audit by an independent auditor. Such review (ex-post and procurement audit)
of small-valued contracts below the threshold will be carried out annually on a sample basis (- 20
percent of contracts) by Bank staff and an independent consulting firm (Chartered Accountants' firm
with internationalaffiliation).

Review of ProcurementPerformance

13.      IDA will monitor the compliance with the requirements of Bank's alternative procurement
methods and performance standards on a continuous basis. As part of the project's planned annual
review/ mid-term review, a comprehensive assessment of procurement performance will also be carried
out. Based on the review, in consultation with the Government, IDA may revise the prior review
threshold, including the procurement and selection methods.

Reporting

14.      Quarterly Procurement Monitoring Report (PROCMOR) will be prepared under EMTAP, as per
specific formats agreedwith GOB.

ProcurementManagement Capacity

15.      Procurement Environment: The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), broadly
accepted by the Government in February 2001, identified inadequate public procurement practices as a
major impediment affecting project implementation in Bangladesh. Procurement deficiencies include:
absence of a sound legal framework, protracted bureaucratic procedures allowing multi-point rent
seeking, lack of critical mass of professionals to manage public procurement, inordinate delays in




                                                  59

completing the procurement process and ineffective contract administration and absence of mechanisms
for ensuring transparency and accountability inpublic procurement.

16.      Procurement Reform Actions: Following the CPAR recommendations, the Government with
IDA'Ssupport is implementing the Public Procurement Reform Project (PPRP), effective August 2002.
As part of the reform under PPRP, the Government established a Central Procurement Technical Unit
(CPTU) with adequate staffing funded from own resources, issued Public Procurement Regulations 2003
inOctober 2003 and ImplementationProceduresof the RegulationsinMarch2004, andpreparedstandard
biddingdocuments that are at the approval stage. The new regulations, among others, take into account
the multilateral development banks' harmonization requirements for local procurement in borrowing
countries.

17.      Concurrently, in order to buildprocurement management capacity under the overall umbrella of
CPTU, LO, Turin, in co-ordination with Bangladesh Institute of Administration and Management
(BIAM), has developed a critical mass of 16 local procurement trainers and started training in October
2003 of about 1,600 public/ private sector staff, to be conducted in phases over the next two years. All
these actions are contributing positively inimproving the procurement environment.

18.       Capacity Assessment and Strengthening Actions: This technical assistance project, as an
umbrella operation, will provide support to priority needs for capacity building and facilitate the
implementation of the Government's economic reform program. Economic Relations Division, Ministry
of Finance, through the WB Branch-1 will be responsible for centralized management and effective
coordination of EMTAP and sub-project activities of different implementing agencies. At this stage, a
few identified agencies are NBR, MOC, Finance Division, MOSICT and Ministry of Information.
However, as the project preparation moves during implementation of the project other agencies are
expected to identify sub-projects for funding under EMTAP. A quick assessment of capacity shows that
ERDhas experience of implementing IDA-financed TA projects (TA-6). The MOC and NBRhave some
experience of such implementation (e.g., customs modernization component, Export Diversification
project). Given the new procurement regulations and the need for their effective implementation, the
associated procurement risk i s substantial.              One important objective of EMTAP, and other Bank-
supported projects, is to mainstream the procurement activities within the Government's existing system,
involving its officials very closely, and strengthen the procurement capacity of the Government entities
through this involvement as well as training. Each agency will require support and some strengthening
actions for smooth implementationof the project. The WB Branch-1 of ERDwill assign one Government
official with adequate experience in procurement on a full-time basis to assist and advise each of the
implementing agencies in procurement matters.             22 In addition, each executing agency will designate one
staff to carry out procurement activities under sub-projects. There i s limited provision for short-term
procurement consultancy services to be used (- 20 months over the project period), as and when needed.
To ensure sustainability, all staff involved in procurement activities will be required to undergo training
being organized by CPTU.

19.       Given the time constraint and the requirement for fast track processing of this Grant, the
following arrangements have been agreed to strengthen procurement management capacity/
accountability and mitigate procurement-related risks, as the project preparation moves :


     0    ERD will introduce by June 30, 2004 one bid evaluation committee of at least five members at
          each level of contract approving authority, including at least two outside members with
          professional knowledge. The evaluation committee members themselves will prepare the report


22 Ithas been suggested that the official for this position could be of the rank of Procurement Officer, Executive Engineer,
Assistant Engineer, Deputy Director or equivalentrank.


                                                         60

  along with recommendations for award and submit the report directly to the contract approving
  authority, without any tiers inbetween;


0ERD will issue by June 30, 2004 necessary instructions for award of contracts within the initial
  validity period, without any extension, save exceptional circumstances. The instruction for
  validity extension should follow the Government's Procurement Regulations;


0ERD submitted an initial Procurement Plan for goods and Selection Plan for services and these
  were finalized and agreed upon during negotiations;


0ERD, prior to Grant effectiveness, will make available one Govemmentlpublic procurement staff
  attached to WB Branch-I (own or on lien from other agency) for the entire project period. In
  addition, there i s provision for ERD to hire needs-based short-term procurement consultancy
  services to assist and advise implementingagencies inprocurement matters, if necessary ;

0 Each implementing agency will send by July 31, 2004 at least one concerned staff to undertake
  procurement training organized by CPTU/IMED.




                                         61

                          Table A: Project Costsby Procurement Arrangements
                                          (US$ million eauivalent)
                                                 Procurement MethodI
  Expenditure Category                                                                           Total Cost
                                 ICB             NCB             Other2           N.B.F.

2. Goods                         5.50             2.50             0.50             .....            8.50
                                (4.80)           (2.10)           (0.40)           (.....)          (7.30)
3. Consultants' Services                                          14.00             .....           14.00
including training,                                              (11.20)                           (11.20)
workshop/seminar
4. Incremental Operating                                           2.50             .....            2.50
cost                                                               (1.5)                            (1.50)
   Total                         5.50             2.50            17.00                             25.00
                                (4.80)           (2.10)          (13.10)           (.....)         (20.00)

  1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Grant.              All costs include
      contingencies.
  2/ Includes (i)goods to be procuredthrough shopping; direct contracting (ii)      consulting services to be
      procured following: quality- and cost-based selection, selection under fixed-budget or least-cost
      selection, single-source selection, and individual consultants' methods, and cost of training, seminar,
      workshops and other dissemination activities; and (iii)incremental operating costs.



                              Table Al: Consultant SelectionArrangements
                                           (US$ million equivalent)
    Consultant Services                                     Selection Method

   Expenditure Category     QCBS        QBS       FBS      LCS          CQ       Other    N.B.F.      Total
                                                                                                      Cost1
  A. Firms                   6.00        0.00      6.00      1.00      0.00      0.50      0.00        13.50
                             (4.80)    (0.00)     (4.80)   (0.80)     (0.00)     (0.40)   (0.00)     (10.80)
  B. Individuals             0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.50      0.00        0.50
                             (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.40)   (0.00)      (0.40)
                     Total    6.00       0.00      6.00      1.00      0.00       1.00     0.00        14.00
                             (4.80)    (0.00)     (4.80)    (0.80)    (0.00)     (0.80)   (0.00)     (11.20)
 1\ Includingcontingencies


           Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                   QBS = Quality-based Selection
                   FBS = FixedBudgetSelection
                   LCS =Least-Cost Selection
                   CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                   Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants' Guidelines), Single
                   Source Selection, Commercial Practices, etc.
                   N.B.F.=Not Bank-financed
                   Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Grant.




                                                 62

                   Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methodsand Prior Review

Expenditure       Contract Value (Threshold)        Procurement Method         Contracts Subject to Prior
 Category                                                                              Review

Goods            >=US$300,000                      ICB                      All contracts
                 <US$300,000                       NCB                      Firstone contract irrespective
                                                                            of value
Services         >=US$750,000                      QCBS                     All contracts.
                 <US$750,000                       QCBS/ FBS                All contracts of US$100,000
                                                                            or more
                 <us$loo,ooo                       FBs/LCS                  Post review
                 >=US$50,000                       IC- Qualifications,      All contracts
                                                   references
                 <US$50,000                        IC- Qualifications,      Post review
                                                   references
                 Selective contracts <=US$         SSS                      Prior agreement
                 50,000


                                  Overall Procurement Risk Assessment

       Overall procurement risk i s substantial, and mitigation measures are described inparagraphs 15-19
of this annex.

       Frequency of procurement supervision missionsproposed: One in every six months. Besides,
as part of the fiduciary control, Bank's staff and independent consultant, as deemed appropriate, will carry
out post review/ procurement audit of contracts (paragraph. 12 of the annex)




                                                 63

                     ANNEX 9:          ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES


 A quantitative economic and financial analysis is not justified or feasible for this technical assistance
project because it is difficult to value the long-term benefits of investment in institutional strengthening
and capacity building, including human capital, in Government and some private professional and
education institutions. These investments are expected to enhance effectiveness and productivity, and
hence lead to a higher growth and poverty reduction impact of Government policies, spending and
activities. The project investment i s likely to have higheconomic and social returns.


A mechanism will be used to screen the activities to be undertaken to ensure that they are economically
justified. Sub-project proposals will be reviewed, taking into account some guiding principles, agreed
with the Govemment, for considering funding of TA sub-projects under EMTAP. These principles will
be disseminated widely so as to encourage active participation and promote competitive selection of TA
sub-project proposals, based on their merit and taking these principles into account.

The technical design of the components relating to accounting and auditing reform and modernization of
tax administration, for instance, are based on analytical assessments and good international practices,
adjusted to suit Bangladesh's administrative structure, which in tum will need to be reformed.      Support
for ICT development will also take into account good internationalpractice and experience. .




                                                   64

                               ANNEX 10:          SAFEGUARDPOLICY ISSUES



  Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                       Yes                   No
  EnvironmentalAssessment (OPBP/GP 4.01)                                            [ I                  [XI
  Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                      [ I                  [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                         [ I                  [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                           [ I                  [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                              [ I                   [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                             11                    [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                              [ I                   [XI
  Safety of Dams (OPBP 4.37)                                                        [ I                   [XI
  Projects in DisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                        E l                   [XI
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                [ I                   [XI


There are no social issues or concerns emanating from the TA activities that are currently contemplated.
Ifnew TA activities are later found to have social implications, their likely social impact will be assessed
in a consultative manner. A social safeguards expert will be included in the IDA supervision team to
address social issues, including those on account of new sub-project proposals that would be supported
underEMTAP, ifand when they mightarise.

There are no environmental issues or concerns emanating from the TA activities that are currently
contemplated. Ifnew TA activities are later found to have environmental implications, an environmental
safeguards expert will be included in the IDA supervision team to ensure the timeliness and quality of
addressingenvironmental issues, as and when they might arise.




* By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas



                                                        65

                               ANNEX 11: PROJECTPROCESSING


                                                        Planned                Actual
            PCN review                             November 4,2003        February 18,2004
            Initial PIDto PIC                                              March 18, 2004
            Initial ISDS to PIC                                            March 18,2004
            Appraisal                                January 2,2004     April 28-May 4,2004
            Negotiations                             March 10,2004          May 54,2004
            Board approval                           June 22,2004
            Planned date of effectiveness            August 2,2004
            Planned date of mid-termreview           August 1,2006
            Planned closing date                  December 31,2009

Counterpart institutions involved in preparation of the project, including consultations include : ERD,
Finance Division; NBR, MOC, ICAB, ICMAB, SEC, Bangladesh Bank, Department of Insurance,
MOSICT, Ministry of Information, MOE, Socio-Economic Infrastructure Division, PlanningCommission
and IMED

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project are indicatedbelow:
Name                                                            Title                            Unit
Alma Kanani and Syed Nizamuddin Sr. Economists                                                 SASPR
(Co-Task Team Leaders)
BurhanuddinAhmed                       Sr. Financial Management Specialist                     SARFM
Zafrul Islam                           Sr. Procurement Specialist.                             SARPS
Mohammad Sayeed                        Disbursement Officer                                    SARFM
TenzinDolmaNorbhu                      Information Technology Policy Specialist.               CITPO
Zaidi Sattar                           Sr. Economist (Tax Administration)                      SASPR
William J. McCarten                    Sr. Economist (Tax Administration)                      SASPR
EsperanzaLasagabaster                  Sr. Financial Economist (Tax Administration)            SASFP
Suraiya Zannath                        Sr. Financial Management Specialist.(Accounting and     SARFM
                                       Auditing)
Subrata S. Dhar                        Sr. Communications Officer                              SAREX
M.Zubaidur Rahman,Advisor              ProgramManager (Accounting and Auditing)                OPCFM
Anthony R. Bottrill, Advisor           LeadEconomist                                           SASPR
Oxana Bricha                           ProgramAssistant                                        SASPR
Mehar Akhter                           Office Administrator                                    SASPR

Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
1. Bank resources: $148,000
2. Trust funds: None
3. Total: $148,000

Project preparation costs are estimated at $157,000.
Estimated approval and supervision costs:

1. Remainingcosts to approval: $9000.
2. Estimated annual supervision cost: $60,000




                                                66

                      ANNEX 12:       DOCUMENTSINTHE PROJECTFILE


1. Bangladesh : Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC): Accounting and
   Auditing, May 16,2003
2. Aide Memoire and BTO of Pre-IdentificationMission(August27-September, 2003), September 30,
   2003
3. Bangladesh: Tax Administration Mission: Back-to-Office Report (January 11-19, 2004) dated
   February 13,2004
4. Project Concept Noteof EMTAP, February 19,2004
5. ProjectConcept NoteDataSheet of EMTAP, February 19,2004
6.  Back-to-OfficereportandAide Memoireof Preparation Missionof EMTAP, February 11,2004
7. Letter to ERD on key outstanding issues under EMTAP, February 29,2004
8. Minutesof PCNreview meeting, March 1,2004
9.  ProjectInformationDocument, March8, 2004
10. IntegratedSafeguardData Sheet, March 8, 2004
11. ERD's letter datedMarch 14,2004 nominatinga counterpart team
12. ERD's letter dated March 16, 2004 enclosingthe minutes of meeting on EMTAP with ERD heldon
    March 4,2004
13. Bank`s letter dated March 17, 2004 to ERD onprojectimplementationarrangements
14. Authorizationto issueGeneralProcurementNotice, April 12,2004
15. Letter of Invitation to Negotiate, April 23,2004
16. IntegratedSafeguardsData Sheet, April 27,2004
17. ProjectInformationDocument, April 27,2004
18. Action Planto resolve audit objectionunder TA-6 Project,April 28,2004
19. Appraisal andNegotiationPackage, April 29, 2004
20. Authorizationto Appraise andNegotiate, April 29,2004
21. Summary of Negotiationsfor EMTAPtogether with Agreed Minutes,May 18,2004
22. Government Approval of NegotiatedDevelopmentGrant Agreement, May 20,2004




                                               67

                                  ANNEX 13: STATEMENT OFLOANS AND CREDITS
                      BANGLADESH: Economic Management Technical Assistance Program


                                                                                                                Differencebetween
                                                                                                                expectedandactual
                                                           Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                                  IBRD       IDA       SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.    Frm.Rev'd

PO74966    2004 Primary EducationDevelopment Program       0.00   150.00       0.00       0.00   0.00  153.95    0.00       0.00
                I1
PO53578    2003 Social Investment Program Project          0.00     18.24      0.00       0.00   0.00   18.29    2.10       0.00
PO62916    2003 Central Bank Strengthening Project         0.00     37.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   37.05   19.32        0.00
PO71435    2003 RuralTransport Improvement Project         0.00   190.00       0.00       0.00   0.00  191.06    1.96        0.00
PO81849    2003 BD:Telecommunications Technical            0.00      9.12      0.00       0.00   0.00    9.87   -0.06        0.00
                Assist.
PO44876    2002 FemaleSecondary School Assis. I1           0.00   120.90       0.00       0.00   0.00   99.04   19.39        0.00
PO75016    2002 Public Procurement Reform Project          0.00      4.50      0.00       0.00   0.00    2.77     1.03       0.00
PO74040    2002 RenewableEnergy Development                0.00      0.00      0.00       8.20   0.00    7.72     1.05       0.00
PO74731    2002 Financial Services for the Poorest         0.00      5.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    4.44     1.65       0.00
PO71794    2002 RuralElect. RenewableEnergy Dev.           0.00    190.98      0.00       0.00   0.00  188.89   82.13        0.00
PO50752    2001 Post-Literacy & Continuing Education       0.00     53.30      0.00       0.00   0.00   43.04   13.22       -0.42
PO57833    2001 Air Quality Management Project             0.00      4.71      0.00       0.00   0.00    3.45     3.51       0.00
PO59143    2001 Microfinance I1                            0.00    151.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   26.44    -0.20       0.00
PO69933    2001 HDIIAIDS Prevention                        0.00     40.00      0.00       0.00  21.98    14.61  26.49       -2.01
PO44810    2001 Legal& Judicial Capacity Building          0.00      30.60     0.00       0.00   0.04   26.56    12.44       0.00
PO44811    2000 Financial Institutions Development         0.00     46.90      0.00       0.00   0.00    10.68  26.02        0.00
PO50751    2000 National Nutrition Program                 0.00      92.00     0.00       0.00  24.02   50.56   62.13        6.11
PO49587    2000 Aquatic Biodiversity Conservation          0.00      0.00      0.00       5.00   1.25     1.85    4.82       2.66
PO09468    2000 Fourth Fisheries                           0.00      28.00     0.00       5.00   8.25    11.81   18.83       3.67
PO41887    1999 Municipal Services                         0.00    138.60      0.00       0.00   0.00    83.37   29.25       0.00
PO37294    1999 Third RoadRehabilitation & Maintenance     0.00    273.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    97.93   88.58      29.11
PO09524    1999 Dhaka Urban Transport                      0.00    177.00      0.00       0.00  64.89    46.54  110.54      35.37
PO50745    1999 Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply            0.00      32.40     0.00       0.00   4.35    15.82   18.67       0.00
PO49790    1999 Export Diversification                     0.00      32.00     0.00       0.00   0.00     0.24     0.63      0.00
PO44789    1998 BDPrivate Sector Infrastructure Dev        0.00    235.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   147.68  148.65       0.00
PO37857    1998 Health and Population Program              0.00    250.00      0.00       0.00   0.78    51.61   55.13       0.00

                                                   Total   0.00  2,310.25      0.00      18.20  125.56 1,345.27 747.28      74.49




                                                             68

                                           STATEMENTOFIFC's
                                       Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                          InMillions of USDollars


                                                   Committed                           Disbursed
                                                  IFC                                IFC
FY Approval Company                    Loan      Equity    Quasi   Partic. Loan      Equity      Quasi  Partic.

2001        BDTEF                      13.00       0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
1997        DBH                        2.33        0.65      0.00    0.00     2.33    0.65        0.00   0.00
1991        DynamicTextile             1.86        0.00      0.00    1.48     1.86    0.00        0.00   1.48
1998        GrameenPhone               6.67        0.09      0.00    0.00     6.67    0.09        0.00   0.00
1985        IDLC                       0.00        0.15      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.15        0.00   0.00
1998        IPDC                       6.88        0.00      0.00    0.00     6.88    0.00        0.00   0.00
1998        Khulna                     14.74       0.00      0.00   17.99    14.74    0.00        0.00  17.99
1998/00     LafargdSurma               0.00        0.00      0.00   15.00     0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
2003        RAK Ceramics               12.00       0.00      0.00    0.00    12.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
2000        Scancem                    9.29        0.00      0.00    0.00     9.29    0.00        0.00   0.00
2000        UnitedLeasing              5.00        0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00

                      Totalportfolio:   71.77      0.89      0.00   34.47    53.77    0.89        0.00  19.47




                                                               ApprovalsPendingCommitment

             FY Approval   Company                         Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic.

             2001          BRAC Bank                     0.00         3.00      0.00       0.00
             2001          DhakaWestin                   8.75        0.00       0.00       0.00
             2004          GrameenPhone I1               30.00        0.00      0.00       0.00
             1998          Khulna                        0.00         3.30      0.00       0.00
             2000          USPCL                         0.00         3.00      4.00       0.00

                                Total pendingcommitment:   38.75      9.30      4.00       0.00




                                                    69

                                                  ANNEX 14: COUNTRYA T A GLANCE
                       BANGLADESH: Economic Management Technical Assistance Program


POVERTYandSOCIAL                                                                  South       Low-
                                                             Bangladesh            Asia    income           Developmentdlamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                                     135.7          1,401     2,495                          Lifeexpectancy
GNIper capita(Atlas method, US$)                                      380           460        430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                      51.1           640       1,072

Average annualgrowth, 1996-02                                                                                                     T
Population (%)                                                         1.7           1.8        1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                         2.8           2.3        2.3         ON1
                                                                                                            per
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1996-021                                                        zapita
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                       34
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                                  26             28         30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                         62             63         59
Infantmortality (per 1,000 livebirths)                                 52             71         81
Childmalnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                                  48                                         Access to imDrovedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                    97             84         76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 1%)                                       59             44         37
Gross primatyenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)                                                                -
                                                                      100             97         95                         Bangladesh
    Male                                                              100            108        103                           Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                                      ~

    Female                                                            101             89         87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSandLONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                          1982       1992           2001      2002           Economic ratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                         18.1        31.7          47.0       47.6
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                               17.8       17.3          23.1       23.1
Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                             5.2        7.6          15.4       14.3                             Trade

Grossdomestic savingdGDP                                   12.5       13.9          18.0       18.2
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                  17.9       19.3          22.4       23.4

Current account balance/GDP                                 -4.9      -0.4           -1.7       0.5
Interest paymentdGDP                                        0.3        0.5           0.3        0.3
Total debVGDP                                             27.9        42.8          32.4       35.8
Total debt service/exports                                 17.7       16.2           7.3         7.7
Presentvalue of debWGDP                                                             20.7
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                       105.4                                      Indebtedness
                                            1982-92 1992-02          2001           2002    2002-06
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                                                  -Bangladesh
GDP                                              3.8         5.0       5.3            4.4
GDP percapita                                    1 3         3 2       3.5            2 6                                      Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                                         ~




STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                31.2       29.4          24.1        22.7        '5

Industry                                                   21.1       22.5          25.9        26.4        10
    Manufacturing                                          13.7       13.9           15.6       15.9
Services                                                   47.7       48.1          50.0        50.9

Private consumption                                        88.4       83.0           78.5       76.6       1 O i       b      98    9,    b     01   I
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                 4.5       4.5            4.5        5.0
Importsof goods and services                                                                                              -GDI          -GDP


                                                        1982-92 1992-02             2001       2002
(averageannualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                  2.2       3.4            3.1        0.0
Industry                                                     6.0       7.1            7.4        6.5
    Manufacturing                                            5.6       6.6            6.7        5.5
Services                                                     3.7       4.8            5.5        5.4

Private consumption                                          3.0       3.7            4.8       -0.1
Generalgovernment consumption                                2.7       4.5            4.5       19.2
Gross domestic investment                                    6.3       9.6            5.8        8.2
-Importsdiamondsshow four
           of goods and services                             2.3       9.4           11.2      -11.2

  The                    key indicators in the country(inbold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage.If dataare mssing,the diamondwill be incomplete.




                                                                                70

                                                                                                            Bangladesh

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982   1992    2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                           Inflation (%)                                   I
(% change)
Consumer prices                                   4.5     1.6     1.9
Implicit GDP deflator                      9.7    3.0     1.6     3.2
Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrent grants)
Current revenue                                   8.3     9.0   10.1                97    98      99      w       01
Current budget balance                            1.9     1.4     2.1    1
OverallsurDlus/deficit                                                            -GDPdeflator
                                          -9.6   -4.5    -5.0    -4.6                                    +CPI



TRADE                                                                                                                     I
                                         1982   1992    2001    2M12
(US$ millions)                                                             Exportand import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             1,986  6,476   5,929       0,wo T
 Raw jute                                         106     67      61
 Leatherand leatherproducts                       139    254     207
 Manufactures                                   1,593  5,766   5,367
Total imports(ci0                              3,526   9,363   7,697
 Food                                            265     380     437
 Fueland energy                                   168    848     723                                                      I
 Capital goods                                  1,289  2,400   2,617
Exporl price index /1995=100)                     86     112                                                w
                                                                 115              98   97    98      99          01

Importpriceindex (1995=100)                       107     129    106                   IllEq~orts           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         81      87     108                                                   O2



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982   1992    2001    2002
IUS$ millions)                                                             Current account balanceto GDP(%)

Exports of goods and services              840 2,468   7,235    6,794      ' T
Importsof goods and services            2,759   3,932  10,103   9,061
Resourcebalance                         -1,919 -1,464  -2,868  -2,267

Net income                                 -97    -89   -264    -319
Net current transfers                    1,121  1,435  2,316    2,826

Currentaccount balance                   -895   -118    -816      240

Financingitems (net)                       387    635     490      35
Changesin net reserves                     508  -517      326   -275
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)            1,600   1,307   1,583
Conversionrate (DEC, lomlAJS$)           20.0    37.7   54.0     57.4

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1982   1992    2001    2002
(US$millions)                                                             1Composition of 2002debt ( U S mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed      5,054 13,561  15,216 17,010
  IBRD                                      55     60      17      13                       G 4 9 4 A: 13
  IDA                                    1,270  4,534   6,439   7,063                 F:565

Total debt sewice                          220    552     671     722
  IBRD                                       3      7       7       7
  IDA                                        9     52     143     156
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                           759    357     287     410
  Officialcreditors                        739    623     419     220
  Privatecreditors                          21    -19     230      85
  Foreigndirect investment                   7      4     174      65
  Portfolioequity                            0      6       0      -6
World Bankprogram
  Commitments                              571    353     296     479      A IBRD
                                                                             -                               E Bilateral
  Disbursements                            188    323     312     301      B- IDA      D- Other multilateral F Private
                                                                                                               .-
  Principalrepayments                        0     24      99     112      C-IMF                             G -Short-term
  Netflows                                 188    300     213     190
  Interestpayments                          12     35      50      51
  Net transfers                            175    264     163     138




                                                     71


MAP SECTION


