Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3125 
Operation Name 
Madagascar-Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 4) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);General education 
sector (15%);Health (15%);General water, sanitation and flood 
protection sector (15%);General public administration sector (5%) 
Project ID 
P099420 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY, FINANCE & BUDGET (MEFB) 
Country 
Republic of Madagascar 
Contact 
Mr. Henri Bernard Razakariasa, Secretary General, Ministry of 
Economy, Finance and Budget 
Antananarivo, Madagascar 
Tel: 261-20-2220423   
Date PID Prepared 
April 17, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 3, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
July 3, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
In 2006 Madagascar continue to make satisfactory progress in implementing its poverty reduction 
strategy with good progress in the implementation of the roads program, Education for All, nutrition, and 
health. Economic growth, estimated in 2006 at 4.9 percent, was driven by strong tertiary sector growth 
but agricultural growth was disappointing.  Agricultural growth in 2006 was lower than in 2005, with 
production impacted negatively by shortfalls in rain and low world prices for key export commodities 
such as vanilla.  The tertiary sector grew strongly by 8.9 percent, with public works, tourism and 
transport, banking and the telecommunications sectors as the key growth sectors. The telecommunications 
sector has seen significant acceleration in 2005-6 through strong growth of basic services subscribers and 
network expansion.  The tourism sector saw an increase of 14 percent in tourism arrivals.  The secondary 
sector grew at over 6 percent, with strong growth in the mining sector, linked to the ilmenite mining 
investment in Fort Dauphin, and for construction materials.  
 
Madagascar’s vulnerability to natural disasters was never more evident than in early 2007, when it was hit 
by six tropical storms/cyclones in the first four months leading to exceptional rains in most parts of the 
country
.
These storms have contributed to heavy flooding in largely populated and cultivated areas 
throughout the country, including the capital region, the northwest, west and southeast regions. Over 
300,000 people have been affected, the food security situation has deteriorated, health risks to the 
population have increased, and public infrastructure has been damaged.  Early estimates of the damage to 
the standing vanilla crop in the Sava region due to the cyclone Jaya have led to downward revisions from 
1600 tons of vanilla exports to 1000 tons this year, and there is a likely impact on the rice harvest in the 
region too. 
 
Despite the adverse natural climatic conditions, the
 
macroeconomic situation remains stable and growth 
in 2007 has been revised upward percent due to the recently confirmed nickel mining investment of 
around $3 billion (or around 50 percent of GDP) over the next three years by Dynatech.  A key policy 
Page  2
concern is the impact of the significant foreign direct investment inflows on the exchange rate, and the 
policy responses to safeguard competitiveness while maintaining macro-economic stability.    
 
Following the positive implementation of the first PRSP, the Government of Madagascar has completed 
its second generation poverty reduction strategy called the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP). The MAP 
was launched in November 2006 and lays out an ambitious development plan for 2007-2012.  It outlines 
the commitments, strategies and actions that are expected to ignite rapid growth and lead to the reduction 
of poverty in line with the Government’s national vision document (
Madagascar Naturally)
 and the 
MDGs.  The MAP builds on the first PRSP and was elaborated in a participatory manner that included 
broad consultations in all 22 regions of Madagascar involving local and national Government 
representatives, private sector, NGOs, church groups, development partners and civil society.  Key 
monitoring indicators, most with baselines for 2005 and targets for 2012, have been selected to measure 
progress toward achieving the MAP’s identified challenges.  
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
In line with the new Country Assistance Strategy for Madagascar, a series of single tranche Poverty 
Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), provided in the form of budget support, is envisaged to support 
implementation of key components of the new MAP.  The focus of the series is centered on (i) 
governance and budget management reform and (ii) improved systems for service delivery in education, 
health, nutrition, water and sanitation. 
 
3. Project Description 
 
The new PRSC series will continue to support the Government to implement its comprehensive 
governance reform program.  A key priority will be the consolidation of the reforms initiated under the 
first PRSC series, mainly to further refine the regulatory and institutional governance framework, which 
has been developed since 2003, to close existing gaps, and to improve impact of governance related 
activities.  Additional attention will be given to governance reforms, in particular governance challenges 
in selected entities or in sensitive sectors such as the forestry and the mining sectors.  Reforms in these 
areas will provide an important test for the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing governance 
framework.  Regarding basic service delivery, the objective of the series is to accompany the process of 
institutional strengthening and quality improvements under-way in the sectors.  More specifically, the 
PRSCs will complement the Bank’s existing investment portfolio by reinforcing institutional 
rationalization and strengthening in nutrition and by supporting the implementation of sector-wide 
approaches in health, education and water supply. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed credit amount would be a US$ 40 million equivalent.  The credit would be disbursed in one 
tranche at effectiveness subject to the fulfillment of the prior actions conditions listed in the Policy 
Matrix.   
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Economy, Budget and Finance will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the 
implementation of the program. 
 
6. Sustainability 
Page  3
The sustainability of the results of the PRSC 4 are likely since there is a broad degree of consensus and 
commitment on the importance and directions of these reforms for the implementation of the poverty 
reduction strategy.   The pace of progress, however, could be affected by external shocks (such as natural 
disasters) and capacity constraints. 
 
7. Environmental aspects 
 
In accordance with Bank guidelines, this operation is a development policy credit in support of a broad 
program of policy and institutional reforms, for which the requirements of OP/BP 8.60 apply.  None of 
the activities supported by the PRSC 4 program pose any likely and significant effects on the 
environment, natural resources and forests.  
 
8.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The PRSC supports the implementation of Madagascar’s poverty reduction strategy as summarized in the 
Government’s Madagascar Action Plan. 
 
9. Contact point 
Contact: Stefano Paternostro 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3492 
Email: Spaternostro@worldbank.org 
 
10. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
