Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17215
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 3076-AL)
December 2, 1997
Rural Development, Water and Enviromnent Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DA)
Official Exchange Rate (DA per US$)
Year                                      Annual Average
1988                                          5.91
1989                                          7.61
1990                                          8-96
1991                                          18.47
1992                                          21.84
1993                                          23,24
1994                                          36.00
1995                                          54.60
1996                                          56.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG1I)         National Agency for Irrigation and Drainage Ifrastructrure
(Agence Nationale de Reahisation et de Gestion des Infrastructures Hydrauliques pour
l'Irrigation et le Drainage)
ANRH          National Agency for Water Resources
(Agence Nationale des Ressources Hydrauliques)
BAD           Algerian Development Algerian
(Banque Algerienne de Developpement)
BADR          Agriculture and Agricultural Development Bank
(Banque pour lAgriculture et le DeveloppementAgricole)
DAS           Socialist State Farm
(Domaine Agricole Socialiste)
EAC           Collective Agricultural Farm
(Exploitation Agricole Collective)
EAI           Individual Farms
(Exploitation Agricole Individuelle)
ENHYD         National Enterprise for Hydraulic Studies
(Entreprise Nationale des Etudes Hydrauliques)
EPIC          Public Agency with Industrial and Commercial Activity
(Entreprise Publique a Caractere Industriel ou Commercial)
Vice President:          Kemal Dersi. Acting Direcor, MNSRE:   Salah Darghouth
Country Director:        Chrisian Delvoie    Task Team Leader:         Van Tuu Nguyen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INPV          National Institute for Plant Protection
(Institut National de la Protection des Vgetaux)
LSI           Large Scale Irrigation
(Grand Perimetre Irrigue)
OPI           Regional Irrigation Agency
(Office de Perimetre Irrigue)
OPIC          Regional Irrigation histitute of Cheliff
(Office des Perimetres lrrigues de la Yallee du Chelyff)
OPIM          Regional Irrigation Institute of Mitidja
(Office des Perimntres Irngues de la Mitidja)
PASA          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(Projet d'Ajustement Structurel Agricole)
PNE           Water Resources National Plan
(Plan National de l'Eau)
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
(Rapport d 'Evaluation)
SMI           SmalUMediun Scale Irrigation (also SSI, for Small Scale)
(Petite etMoyenne Hydraulique)
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Table of Contents
Pa2e
Preface ..................................
Evaluation Summary ................................                                                                            ii
PART  I:  Project Implementation Assessment .................................1
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .
B.  Achievements of Project Objectives                                                      .2
C.  Major Factors affecting the Project                                                    .5
D. Project Sustainability                                                         .6
E. Bank Performance                                                             .7
F. Borrower Performance                                                             .8
G. Assessment of Outcome .11
H. Future Operation .11
I. Key Lessons Learned .11
PART II: Statistical Annexes
Table 1  Summary of Assessments ............................. 13
Table 2  Related Bank Loans/Credits .............................. 15
Table 3  Project Timetable ...............................;                                                                   16
Table 4A Annual Loan Disbursement ............                                    ................. 17
Table 4B Cumulative Loans Disbursement ............                                  .................. 17
Table    5   Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................... 18
Table    6   Key Indicators for Project Operation (not applicable) ..............................................  20
Table    7   Studies Included in Project .............................................. 20
Table   8A  Project Costs ...............................................                                                     21
Table   8B  Project Financing ...............................................                                                 22
Table   9   Economic Costs and Benefits ...............................................                                       22
Table 10    Status of Legal Covenants (not applicabe) ...............................................                         23
Table 11    Compliance with Operation Manual Statements ..............................................                         25
Table 12    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................                                       25
Table 13    Bank Resources: Mission  ..............................................                                           26
APPENDICES:
A. Missing Information .27






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT (Loan 3076-AL)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the West Mitidja Irrigation
Project in Algeria, for which Loan 3076-AL in the amount of US$ 110.0 million was approved in April
1990 and made effective in June 1990.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1997 instead of June 30, 1996, the original closing date
after being twice extended by six months. In March 1995, US$ 40 million had been cancelled; in April
1996, a second cancellation of US$ 26.725 million took place. The final amount of the loan was US$
43.275 million out of which a total of US$42.042 million was disbursed. At closing, a balance of
US$1.233 million has been cancelled.
The present ICR draft was prepared by an FAO/CP mission", on the basis of information
collected in Washington and discussions with the WB Task Manager. Owing to civil unrest in Algeria,
no field visit was organized for the preparation of the ICR.
The last supervision mission was carried out in September 1993. Because of security
conditions, no visit to Algeria was possible to supervise the project after this mission. The ICR is based
on: (a) a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and legal documents, the six WB Supervision
Reports, and the project files of ECA/MNA Information Service Centre; and (b) discussions with the
Bank Task Manager. Additional information to complete the ICR requested from AGID, has not been
received.
Mr. J. Chabloz (Irrigation Engineer)
I   i                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT (Loan 3076-AL)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
Bank Group lending for agriculture in Algeria started in 1974, but in 15 years, only six
projects had been approved prior to the Mitidja Irrigation Project, and four between were approved
1990 and 1994. Performance under the first three projects was unsatisfactory, reflecting the country's
serious institutional constraints. The Rural Development Project (Loan 1159-AL) was completed on
June 30, 1983 after considerable delays, mainly due to a lack of commitment and coordination. The
Lower Cheliff Irrigation Project (Loan 1802-AL) was 80% completed when the Bank closed the loan,
two years after the initial closing date, on July 1, 1985. The Meat Industry Project (Loan 1739-AL)
was cancelled at the Goverrnent's request, with no reason given two years after the loan became
effective, on April 30, 1984. More recent projects approved in 1987/88 suffered in their final stages
from the civil disturbances, which by the end of 1993 obliged foreign companies and technical
assistants to leave the country. The Cheliff Irrigation Project (Loan 2809-AL) was closed on December
31, 1994, with only 60% of works implemented and the Irrigation Engineering Project (Loan 2978-
AL) had completed only 40% of the project's activities before closing on June 30, 1994.
Project Components and Objectives
With a view to promoting intensive agricultural production through irrigation, the
proposed project was designed to expand and complete the existing West Mitidja Irrigation Scheme. It
comprised: (a) water resource development involving construction of the Boukourdane pipeline and
the Djer diversion; (b) irrigation, drainage and road development involving the construction of a
pressurized irrigation distribution network on 14,000 ha (including 3 pumping stations) and a surface
drainage and road systems; (c) supply and installation of sprinkler or drip systems on 22,000 ha;
(d) agricultural development on 15,800 ha, including: (i) establishment of citrus plantations and other
orchards and greenhouses for vegetables, (ii) provision of supplementaly equipment for agricultural
operations, (iii) construction of buildings, and (iv) establishment of windbreaks; and (e) institutional
development involving the strengthening of (i) the Project Unit of the National Agency for Irrigation
and Drainage (AGID) responsible for supervising construction works, the Regional Authority for
Mitidja (OPMI) in charge of O&M, (ii) the National Agency for Water Resources (ANRH) responsible
for drainage investigations and groundwater quality monitoring, and (iii) the National Institute for Plant
Protection (INPV) to prepare a fertilizer and pest management plan.
The primary objective of the project was to complete an existing irrigation scheme and
thereby expand the area under irrigation. The project aimed to support farmers with on-farm irrigation



equipment and services. It would also strengthen local and national irrigation institutions, assisting
them in project surveys, design and implementation. The project aimed at implementing policy and
institutional changes with respect to O&M and cost recovery. It would also seek sustainable solutions
to environmental issues.
In retrospect, considering the country's limited institutional, financial and technical
capacity, the size of the total investment and the project's objectives - although very relevant - were
probably too ambitious. Moreover, the intended impact on agricultural production was not obtained
since the irrigation systems were not completed when the loan closed.
At the local level, the objectives of safeguarding/improving farmers income and improving
social welfare were hampered by the disorganization caused when the DAS (Domaine Agricole
Socialiste) were transformed into EAC (Exploitation Agricole Collective) and EAI (Exploitation
Agricole Individuelle).
Implementation Experience and Results
Two main factors explain the failure of the project to achieve its overall objectives: (a) the
foreign contractors left the country due to security conditions when none of the planned irrigation
infrastructure was completed, and (b) the strengthening of the concerned governmental institutions
(mainly AGID and OPIM) was not effective because of the difficulties of having foreign technical
assistance. The Governnent and the Bank agreed that if the project re-started, it should be preceded by
a thorough review of all economic, social, financial and institutional aspects, followed by the necessary
support actions to pave the way for sound irrigated agriculture.
The total project cost with on-farm investments, originally assessed to be US$ 426
million, has changed significantly and is evaluated at US$ 167 million at project completion, because of
implernentation problems. About US$42 million (38%) of the loan amount (US$110 million) was
disbursed at project closing (Table 8).
The construction of two important works for water resource development, the
Boukourdane pipeline and the Djer diversion weir, expected to be completed in 1993, has not yet
started. Only US$22 rmillion was disbursed for civil works for irrigation facilities on several work sites
(55% of the amount disbursed), so none of the concemed irrigation area sectors could be irrigated,
because of uncompleted works.
Progress in the other components (on-farm development, institutional strengthening,
studies, technical assistance and training) was insignificant.
Two major exogenous factors affected project implementation: (a) since mid-1993, the
security conditions prevailing in Algeria seriously hampered the work of the consulting firms, suppliers
and contractors involved in the project, and (b) the gradual currency devaluation from 1$ = DA 5.9 in
1988, to 1$ = DA 56 early 1996. To these factors must be added Algeria's cumbersome and time-
iii



consuming administrative and banking procedures, which constituted a serious impediment to project
execution (Chapter C).
Until the last supervision mission in September 1993, engineering works were properly
monitored by the Bank: between July 1990 and September 1993, the Bank sent an irrigation engineer
to Algeria for 6 supervision missions totalling 35 staffweeks. (Chapter E). In May 1992, the Bank sent
a Programming/Implementation Mission (P1M) to Algeria to review the main issues affecting the whole
Bank's portfolio and to identify the problems hindering projects' execution. Despite Government and
Bank agreements for an action plan to improve the portfolio status, in particular the Mitidja Irrigation
Project, no action was undertaken after this mission (Chapter E).
Several institutional changes disrupted project implementation. The executing agency
(AGID) lacked the necessary experience to manage/monitor this kind of project. Technical Assistance
allocated at appraisal to help resolve specific problems during project implementation and for on-the-
job training were not put in place, mainly because of difficulties in disbursing foreign currency for small
operations, such as the recruitment of individual consultants (Chapter F).
The overall project outcome is highly unsatisfactory. The project has not generated any
significant increase in agricultural production. The institutions concemed have not been strengthened.
Policy reforms have not been undertaken, especially those regarding OPIM's financial autonomy and
the investment and O&M costs recovery. The organization and the management of O&M on existing
schemes have been weak. It is true that under insistent pressure from the Bank which officially
threatened suspension of disbursements in November 1993, water charges had been increased from
0.35 to 0.80 DA/m3, but this was insufficient to cover actual O&M costs. Despite initial difficulties and
delays, AGID ultimately developed a significant capacity in handling procurement matters and in
supervising studies and works; this would constitute one of the few project benefits.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The project encountered a large number of difficulties and issues which hindered project
implementation. In addition to the precarious security conditions which progressively worsened during
the last three years of the project, the main constraints were the weakness of central and regional
institutions, not only at the level of the technical Ministries in charge of the project but also at the level
of the Ministry of Finance. The agricultural sector lacks sound policies in terms of institutions,
organization, water tariffs, and land tenure system. This led to the conclusion that the project could not
be executed under the present circumstances and that no extension of the project period could be
justified. However, the project had to be extended twice to allow procurement of equipment.
When the overall political/security situation in Algeria improves, future operations must
concentrate on strengthening the institutions involved and on implementing sector policy reforms
(Chapter H). Key lessons learned from the project can be summarized as follows (Chapter I):
iv



(a)    the change of OPI's statute into an EPIC (Etablissement Public a caractere
Industriel et Commercial) should have been more actively monitored by the
Bank;
(b)    Government's ownership of policies supported by the project should have been
confined by upfront actions. In particular, water tariff adjustment should have
been a condition of loan effectiveness and should not rest on oral commitments
made during appraisal;
(c)    key indicators for project implementation should have been followed up by the
Government and the Bank; closer attention should have been paid to the
monitoring system to be put in place for the project;
(d)    structural constraints negatively affected the project in several ways:
shortage of foreign currency, shortage of construction materials, deficiency
in the banking system delaying creditors' payments, cumbersome
administrative procedures;
(e)    contracts for study, works or supplies should include clauses clearly defining
conditions and exchange rates; most of the contractors' claims arose from
equivocal specifications or interpretation; the Bank needs to closely monitor
contracts arrangements;
(f)    all progress reports should include a financial balance sheet, in the form of a
bookkeeping system in local currency and in US Dollars to allow an easy
comparison of resources and expenditures for each category of loan proceeds, as
well as to show the available balance for the remaining activities;
(g)    the funding by the Bank of only one third of the infrastructure required to collect
and to convey the water at the field level was insufficient. Also the project
experienced budgetary restrictions coupled with the difficulty to find additional
sources of funds.
v



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT (Loan 3076-AL)
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.         Project Description. The proposed project was designed to expand and complete the
existing West Mitidja Irrigation Scheme. It comprised: (a) water resource development involving
construction of the Boukourdane pipeline and the Djer diversion; (b) irrigation, drainage and road
development involving the construction of a pressurized irrigation system on 14,000 ha (including 3
pumping stations) and a surface drainage and road systems; (c) the supply and installation of sprinkler
or drip systems on 22,000 ha; (d) agricultural development of 15,800 ha, including: (i) establishment of
citrus plantations and other orchards and greenhouses for vegetables; (ii) provision of additional
equipment for agricultural operations; (iii) construction of buildings; and (iv) establishment of
windbreaks; and (e) institutional development including strengthening: (i) the Project Unit of the
recently created National Agency for Irrigation and Drainage (AGID) responsible for supervising
construction works; (ii) the Regional Authority for Mitidja (OPIM) in charge of O&M; (iii) the
National Agency for Water Resources (ANRH) responsible for drainage investigations and
groundwater quality monitoring; (iv) and the National Institute for Plant Protection (INPV) to prepare
a fertilizer and pest management plan; the latter two entities would ensure appropriate environmental
standards (para. 19 & 20).
2.         Project Objectives. The primary objective of the project was to complete an existing
irrigation scheme and expand the area under irrigation. The project supported the newly created groups
of private farmers (EACs and EAls) with on-farm irrigation development and services. It also aimed at
strengthening local and national irrigation institutions, assisting them in project surveys, design and
implementation. The project aimed to implement policy and institutional changes with respect to O&M
and cost recovery pioneered in the Cheliff Irrigation Project. It also sought sustainable solutions to
environmental issues as noted above.
3.        In retrospect, considering the country's limited institutional, financial and technical
capacity, the size of the total investments and the project's objectives - although very relevant -were
probably too ambitious. Agricultural production has not increased and the project could not be
completed mainly because of security conditions in the country.
4.         At the local level, the objectives were to increase farmers' income and improve social
welfare in the newly created private farmers groups (EACs and EAIs) by providing them with
equipment and services.
1



B. Achievements of Project Objectives
5.         The overall project objectives were not achieved since none of the planned irrigation
infrastructure were completed and the strengthening of the concemed govermnental institutions
(mainly AGID and OPIM) has not been effective. Agricultural production has not increased.
Organizational/financial arrangements for the O&M of existing schemes have not improved. It must be
pointed out, however, that in November 1993, the water charges were increased from 0.35 to 0.80
DA/m3, but were still insufficient to frilly cover actual O&M costs. The specific achievements of some
of the project components are detailed below."
Water Resource Development (Funded under national proceeds except for the studies).
(a)    The construction of a pipeline between the existing Boukourdane reservoir and
the Mitidja Sector C, including associated facilities for water pumping to supply about 14
hm3 per year for irrigation has not yet started, despite the Government commitment to
complete it by end 1993 (See Table 10, Covenant Sch.5 B). In May 1993, the Bank asked
AGID to cancel the construction of the irrigation systems on Sector C (2,700 ha), which
depends on the Nador-Boukourdane system for its water supply. In November 1993, the
Ministry of Equipment informed the Bank that the implementation of the infrastructure
was included in the 1994 National Plan, but the transfer of water from the Nador river in
the Boukourdane reservoir required additional studies. Bidding documents for the
Boukourdane-Mitidja pipe conveyor, Koudiet Acerdoune and Douera-Mazafran
infrastructures were completed.
(b)    The construction of a diversion weir, pumping station and tunnel, to convey 20
hm3/year from the Djer river to the Bou Roumi reservoir has never started despite the
Government's commitment to complete it by June 1995 (See Table 10, Covenant Sch5 B).
Irigation Expansion
6.         Construction of irrigation facilities on 14,000 ha (the gravity system, 7,000 ha was not
financed by the Bank). In total, about 55% of the works are now completed, but because the Chinese
contractor left the country in November 1993 due to security conditions, the remaining works are
expected to be completed by local contractors, with whom negotiations have started but contracts have
not been signed. As a result, if 74% of the 336 km of pipes have now been supplied, only 57% are put
in place; out of 3 pumping stations, the infrastructure of only one pumping station, and of one tank is
completed. The pumping equipment is kept by the local supplier, waiting for its installation after
completion of the plant. Due to delays related to the Boukourdane-Mitidja transfer, in May 1993, the
Bank required the Ministry^ of Agriculture to suspend the works on the Sector C (2,700 ha), irrigated
by water supplied by the Boukourdane-Mitidja system.
"The last AGID Progress Report (No 13) dated January 1996, gave information exclusively on the components
included in the project.
2



7.         Construction of drainage and road systems on 15.800 ha on irrigated areas (not financed
under the Loan): no information available.
8.         Construction of housing. offices. workshops and warehouses: no information available
On-farm development
9.          The sprinkler and drip irrigation equipment for 15,600 ha of the second Tranche and
5,700 ha of the first, expected to be provided by OPIM, was contracted to a local supplier ANABIB
and partially delivered. Since the irrigation systems are not operational, this equipment provided has
not been used by the concerned farmers.
10.        Provision of credit to farmers for on-farm development: no information available.
Institutional Strengthening
11.        The first sub-component dealt with the development and application of suitable policies
and procedures for: (a) the technical, administrative and financial management of irrigation and
associated facilities; and (b) the surveys and the establishment of design criteria for sub-surface
drainage facilities. The surveys have been completed but have not been applied.
12.        The second sub-component included 3 studies and one training program:
(a)    a study to develop and implement a plan for strengthening the organizational
structure of OP1M, including the establishment of separate units for: (i) the operation and
maintenance of irrigation facilities; (ii) the storage, sale to farmers and after-sale services
of irrigation equipment; (iii) the provision of extension services to farmers on the selection
of irrigation equipment and on-farm water management; and (iv) the monitoring of
cropping patterns and efficiency of water use on the farms;
(b)    a study, including a baseline environmental pollution survey, to develop and
implement a plan, including an action program, to protect the groundwater resources of
the project area against environmental pollution; and,
(c)    a study to develop and implement a fertilizer and pest management plan.
The three studies have been carried out but results have not been applied.
13.        The third sub-component, conceming the provision of materials, vehicles and office
equipment was more successful as shown in Table 5. Five workshops for infrastructure maintenance
and computer equipment were delivered to OPIM as scheduled in the SAR; only four 4-wheel drive
vehicles were delivered to AGID, the central agency responsible for the design and implementation of
irrigation/drainage infrastructures. OPIM, could not purchase any vehicle, because no foreign currency
was allocated to this entity. The contract for the OPIM radio equipment was signed in 1991, but for
3



unknown administrative reasons, the supplier did not deliver the equipment. The 150 motorbikes were
not purchased.
Studies and Technical assistance
14.        Out of the 450 man-months of technical assistance programmed at appraisal, 150 men-
months were used for the supervision of works by engineers from POLSERVICE, a Polish consulting
firm, from 1991 to end 1993, when this assistance was interrupted for security conditions. The
technical assistance allocated at appraisal to help resolving specific technical problems encountered
during project implementation and to give on-the-job training, was not provided. This is due to
difficulties for the Government to pay in foreign currency for small operations contracts. The AGID
staff benefited from some limited training, but this was generally funded by bilateral assistance, Canada
in particular, or national programs.
15.        Studies. AGID contracted the Consulting firm BRL (France) for the finalization of the
existing designs of the Mitidja irrigation systems, taking into account the new land tenure system
resulting from the transformation of state farms (DAS) into collective and individual farms (EAC). The
study was completed in 1993.
16.        Section 5.04 (c) of the Loan Agreement specified that a cost recovery study was to be
completed before the end of 1991. TORs were agreed by the Bank, but the tender was never launched
by the Ministry of Agriculture, given the reluctance of Algerian Authorities to raise water tariffs. This
study would have determined the actual cost of the water, taking into account investment and O&M
costs, as a base for an adjustment of the particularly low water tariffs. In November 1993, after the
Bank officially threatened suspension of the loan, the Government decided to increase the cost of water
from 0.35 to 0.80 DA/m, still much too insufficient to cover O&M charges. Early 1994, without
Bankes agreement, GOA contracted ISPG (Institut Superieur de Gestion et Planification), a local firm,
for a rapid water cost study; a first draft was submitted to AGID for review in March 1995, but AGID
claimed that the ISGP lacked the necessary experience in water management.
17.        The Management Information System Study of the OP1M, not initially included at
appraisal, was contracted in February 1993 to SFC/SEDES/CEGOS (France). Only the diagnostic
phase was completed before the study was discontinued in July 1994 due to security reasons.
18.        Technical Assistance Technical assistance to OPIM was to be provided to set up an
OPIM unit for the sale and distribution of sprinkler equipment, after-sales services and staff training.
19.        Technical assistance to ANRH was to be provided to enhance ANRH capacity to
undertake drainage investigations and monitor water quality; the last AGID Progress Report indicated
that ANRH intended to implement these tasks on its own budget.
20.        Technical assistance to INPV was to be provided for the preparation and implementation
of a fertilizer and pest management plan. The last AGID Progress Report indicated that the INPV
requested the cancellation of the amount earmarked for this activity.
4



Training and auditing
21.        Training. A local and international training program was defined in the SAR (Annex 6).
The last AGID Progress Report indicated that due to lack of foreign currency the training program
could not be carried out.
22.        Audit. The audit reports were received, but the audit of OPIM financial statements were
not carried out in the absence of auditable financial statements.
C. Major Factors affecting the Project
23.        Two main exogenous factors negatively affected project implementation: (a) since mid
1993, security conditions hampered the work of foreign consulting firms, suppliers and contractors
involved in project implementation; and (b) the gradual currency devaluation from 1$ = DA 5.9 in
1988, to 1$ = DA 56, early 1996.
24.        The following factors, linked to Algeria's cumbersome administrative procedures, were
also identified: (a) constraints imposed by the Ministry of Economy in controlling operations; (b) time-
consuming procedures in procurement processing; (c) lengthy procedures of the BAD (Banque
Alg6rienne de D6veloppement), combined with deficiencies in the national banking system, delaying
creditors' payments, and inadequate foreign exchange regulations affecting both local and foreign
contractors; (d) the general shortage of foreign currency, preventing suppliers from importing foreign
equipment (vehicles, technical equipment, spare parts, basic materials); (e) shortages on basic
construction material, such as iron bars, aggregates from quarries due to the strict regulations on the
use and transport of explosives, and sometimes on cement supply; (f) shortage of prefabricated canals,
pipe accessories, PVC drains; and accessories; and (g) frequent changes in the governmental entities
involved in the project.
The implementing agencies.
25.        AGID is the central implementing agency for all the civil works and studies. Despite a
declining purchasing power of AGID staffs salaries and increasing difficulties in work conditions, the
project was monitored by a sufficient number of competent technicians, who were reasonably well-
motivated. Main factors affecting project implementation were: (i) limited receptiveness and/or
difficulties in organizing the training program and mobilizing technical assistance; (ii) low performance
of some contractors, initially due to inadequate site organization aggravated by the above mentioned
shortages of material and equipment, and then by the departure of CSCEC, the main Chinese
contractor for the civil works.
26.        The regional OPIM, based in Meftah, 20 kmn south-east of Algiers, is the entity entrusted
with managing, operating, and maintaining irrigation infrastructure. The strengthening of OPIM, an
important project component, was based on the transformation of this previously subsidized state
agency (before 1988) into a public entity EPIC (Etablissement Public a caractere Industriel ou
Commercial), with commercial vocation. OPIM's new autonomous statutes prevented it from
5



benefiting from any subsidy to compensate for the low level of water charges which are entirely
deternined by the Government without taking into account the actual costs of water distribution. In
the meantime, OPIM could not purchase vehicles nor equipment because, as an autonomous entity, it
could not have access to the official sources of foreign currency.
27.        The total project cost with on-farm investments, was reduced significantly, due to the
cancellation of several major components. Only US$42 million (38%) of the loan amount of US$110
million were disbursed at project closing.
28.        Disbursements were processed by BAD. Exchange rates applied by the Bank for the
project's transactions were different to those used by the BAD under Algeria's multiple-exchange
regime. In addition, due to cumbersome and lengthy procedures, contractors received foreign currency
with great delays preventing them from operating efficiently and, in some instances, from completing
the works.
29.        At appraisal, it was assumed that the project would be implemented over a 6-year period
(September 1989 to June 1995), commensurate with the nature of the works. The key implementation
indicators (Table 5) show that a limited part of the OPIM equipment was provided; only 4 vehicles
were delivered to AGID. Until 1993, civil works generally progressed in line with the working
program established in the SAR Then, delays occurred, mainly due to the security situation and the
fact that foreigners could no longer stay in Algeria, resulting in the suspension of works and technical
assistance.
30.       In order to ensure adequate distribution of irrigation water in the Mfitidja Plain, the
Government agreed in the Loan Agreement to build:
- the 13 km pipeline from the Boukourdane reservoir to the Western Mitidja Plain (Sector
C: 2,700 ha);
- the Djer Diversion, to convey supplementary water from the Djer river into the existing
Moustakbel reservoir; before the closing of the loan.
31.        Government has not requested the Bank to finance either the Djer diversion or
Boukourdane pipeline since over 70% of the Boukourdane water would be for potable water supply
and other irrigation schemes, which were still in an early stage of preparation in 1989. However, the
above works have never started.
D. Project Sustainability
32.        In the present situation, the sustainability of the Mitidja project is not reached, since
works, actions and measures defined at appraisal could not be completed. Sustainability of the project
will depend mainly on OPIM's capacity to determine, collect and keep the water charges, so as to fully
cover the O&M costs of irrigation infrastructure, and the amortization of the initial investment. This
implies that the agency would be given a degree of financial autonomy, which it presently does not
6



have. In addition, farmers should be in a position to pay for such water charges. This supposes that
farmers'net income derived from the use of irrigation water would be sufficient to pay water fees at the
right economic price of water. Limited infonmation available to the mission prevent any firm
conclusion. There is no guarantee that the farmers will accept to pay increased charges as long as
altemative sources of water are available, such as groundwater and direct pumping from the rivers,
although more costly, the supply of this water is more reliable than OPIMs irrigation systems.
33.        Both parties agreed that prior to any possible re-start of the project a thorough review of
all economic, social, financial and institutional aspects will be carried out so as to develop sound and
viable irrigated agriculture.
E. Bank Performance
34.        The project was identified in February 1985 during a World Bank reconnaissance mission,
as a project which may be suitable for Bank financing, together with the Cheliff project, which was
subsequently financed by the Bank (Loan 2809- AL), two years and a half before Mitidja. The project
was then prepared in November 1987 by the Government with the assistance of the FAO/WB
Cooperative Program. The SAR Yellow Cover, dated May 1989, was presented to the Board in May
1989 and the loan signed in April 1990. It became effective in June 1990.
35.        The project was adequately prepared, with a favorable balance of expertise from the
Government, consulting firms and the FAO/WB Cooperative Program. At appraisal, it was considered
that the risk of slow project implementation would be minimized by the design of large procurement
packages and the provision of a strict monitoring system to ensure an adequate build-up of benefits; in
retrospect, the above assessments appear to have been over-optimistic. Tariff increases should have
been a condition of loan's effectiveness.
36.        The Bank endorsed the Government decision to exclude the financing of the
Boukourdane pipeline and the Djer diversion from the Loan and was satisfied with the Government
commitment to execute these infrastructures on prescribed time. Despite precise covenants no work
was started. This risk could have been identified during appraisal. In May 1993, the Bank requested the
Government to cancel the construction of Sector C (2,700 ha), which is fully dependent on the
Boukourdane system.
37.       In September 1990, the Bank transferred to the Algerian Central Bank US$10 million for
the project special account; this amount has been efficiently used.
38.        Between July 1990 and September 1993, the Bank sent an irrigation engineer for 6
supervision missions (total: 35 man-weeks). In retrospect, this engineering-orientated monitoring was
justified; however, the assistance of other specialists (finance, procurement) could have been fruitful.
39.       In May 1992, the Bank sent a Programming/Implementation Mission (PIM) to Algeria,
aiming at conducting a review of the main issues influencing the whole Bank portfolio and identifying
the problems affecting project execution. Main bottlenecks were procurement, disbursement,
7



institutional capacity, mobilization of technical assistance, and the water tariff structure for all irrigation
projects. An action plan was prepared outlining the measures to be taken to ensure continued Bank
support. These measures included the resolution that the local enterprises should have access to
foreign exchange in amounts at least equal to the values estimated in the contracts. The action plan also
contained a request that the Government provide the OPIs with sufficient counterpart funds to carry
out the strengthening program financed by the Bank. Despite the Government agreement on this action
plan, there was no effective implementation of the proposed actions.
40.        The Bank systematically and rightly recommended the financial autonomy for the OPIs
through suitable water charges covering at least O&M costs. The Government agreed in a covenant in
the Loan Agreement(Section 5.04/a), that 100% of the actual O&M costs and a reasonable part of the
investments costs should be recovered through water fees. However, OPIM, as the other OPIs, could
not determine and apply these water charges which are set up by the central Ministries based on
political considerations. During the initial phase of the project, when income from water charges was
insufficient, the OPIs needed governmental subsidies to assume its functions and services, in particular
O&M of the irrigation infrastructure. These were not provided since the Government maintained that
the autonomy of OPIM excluded it from financial assistance. To ensure the sustainability of the Mitidja
project, the Bank should have negotiated appropriate arrangements to ensure OPIMs viability.
41.        At Government's request, the project was extended till December 31, 1996 to allow
purchase of irrigation and pumping equipment and spare parts. A second extension of the loan to June
30, 1997 was granted to allow payment to the supplier.
42.        Non cancellation of the loan was justified by the need to: (a) allow procurement of
necessary equipment; and (b) maintain dialogue with the Borrower during a particularly difficult
period. At preparation, risks were not assessed adequately, and Implementing Agencies should
have been properly trained at the very beginning of the project. Procedures should have been
adjusted to local conditions. Basic technical and financial studies should have been accelerated
and applied.
F. Borrower Performance
43.        During the 1980s, the irrigation sub-sector went through severe disruptions because of
the following major institutional changes:
In 1985, creation of OPIs (Offices des perimetres irrigues) entrusted with the
O&M of irrigation infrastructure in the four main irrigated areas;
In July 1987, transformation of the socialist state farms (DAS) into individual
farmns (EAI) and autonomous collectives agricultural farms (EAC) where farmers
can opt to act as individual private farmers. The resulting fragmentation of large
state farrns should lead to an increase of farmers' incomes. This would have
justified a re-orientation of the project components by the Bank or by the
8



Government. This was unfortunately never done, given the worsening security
conditions;
In August 1987, creation of AGID entrusted with full responsibility for design
and implementation of the irrigation infrastructure, while the overall planning and
coordination activities were retained by the DGPI (Direction generale des
perimetres irrigues) in the Ministry of Hydraulics and Forests, which in 1990
became the Ministry of Equipment and Housing;
In 1988, OPIs were given EPIC statute depriving them of any governmental
subsidies while not allowing them to determine and apply more adequate water
tariffs;
In 1992, the responsibility for the whole irrigation sub-sector was transferred
from the Ministry of Equipment to the Ministry of Agriculture;
Since early 1994, the security conditions led most of the foreign companies,
consulting firms and technical assistants to leave the country; most of Bank's
activities, in particular supervision, were discontinued.
44.        AGIID Assessment. This new implementing authority, created in 1987, made reasonable
efforts to ensure efficient project implementation, but most of its efforts were thwarted by cumbersome
administrative and financial procedures outside its jurisdiction. AGID made strenuous attempts to
strengthen its structures, the most noticeable results being the well staffed Studies and Works
Department, which were directly involved with project implementation. AGID's efforts to recruit
competent staff were constantly hindered by the private sector which is more attractive because of
higher remuneration and fringe incentives.
45.        No training was provided to AGID staff who were not familiar with the Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures, the complex budgeting and processing systems of the
multiple entities involved, and the administrative circuits and procedures. Despite loan agreement,
many Government officials maintain that Algerian laws supersede all other signed agreements.
Nevertheless, tender procedures were properly followed, and contracts correctly drafted.
46.        Performance of consulting firms and contractors. The foreign consulting firmns and
contractors, particularly the Chinese CSCEC civil works contractor, developed specific skills for the
organization of their work and supplies, given the multiple difficulties affecting the project; in general,
their performances were satisfactory in the demanding Algerian conditions, especially the enormous
delays and difficulties for payment. The association of foreign and national firms could be considered
successful, as it constituted an excellent occasion for training of the latter. Most of the problems with
the intemational contractors were the consequences of extemal factors, such as the security conditions
which prevented field visits in Algeria since mid 1993. The civil works contract was terminated for
security reasons and many contracts were amended several times due to the modification of quantities,
9



design adjustments, contractual delays because of unforeseen circumstances (devaluation of the local
currency, changes in the fiscal regulations).
47.        Project monitoring. According to the SAR (para 6.14), the Ministry of Hydraulics and
the Ministry of Agriculture were expected to jointly monitor and evaluate project implementation and
benefits. They were also required to draft semi-annual progress reports as well as a project completion
report within six months of loan closing date on the execution of the project, its costs and the benefits
derived, the performance and fulfilment by all authorities involved.
48.        From July 1989 to December 1995, AGID prepared 13 semi-annual progress reports;
these reports dealt only with the progress of works and financial aspects of the components financed by
the Loan (namely 26% of the project's total cost), which provides only a partial picture of the whole
project. No project completion report has been prepared since the Government considers the project
not yet completed.
49.        The project had persistent problems of non compliance with audit requirements. There
were no audit reports since there were no auditable financial statements. To improve audit compliance,
an action plan was agreed upon which included the installation of a Management if ormation System
for OPIM but these efforts were interrupted, with the withdrawal of the French consulting firm
CEGOS from Algeria, in December 1993.
50.       The lack of an AGID book-keeping system in US dollars for the project, did not
allow an easy comparison of resources and expenditures for each category of loan proceeds.
During the last supervision mission in December 1993, a Bank economist suggested to AGID a
suitable cost table presentation allowing monitoring of expenditures, which has been used since
then in all AGID progress reports.
51.       Technical assistance. Technical assistance for work supervision of construction
works was contracted in early 1991 to POLSERVICE, a Polish consulting firm. Performance was
satisfactory. The contract was terminated in September 1993 due to security reasons.
52.       Compliance with covenants. Table 10 shows a detailed status of Loan Agreement's
legal covenants. As regards the financial covenants, after lengthy delays and several warnings
from the Bank, the Government regularly sent audit reports of the project's accounts and records.
However, these audit reports were prepared by the state Inspection Generale des Finances and not
by an external auditor.
53.       The construction of the Djer Diversion and the Boukourdane pipeline has not started.
Most of the important loan covenants related to water tariffs and cost recovery, were not
complied with, despite numerous reminders from the Bank.  In October 1993, the Bank
announced that it would suspend disbursements if: (i) the water charges were not doubled by the
end of 1993; (ii) this tariff was not in effect in the Mitidja perimeter by the end of April 1994; and
(iii) a rapid study on the actual cost of water has not started before the end of April 1994. As a
10



result, the new water charge (0.80 DA/m3) was published in the Algerian Official Journal dated 13
November 1993 and was effective in December 1993.
G. Assessment of Outcome
54.       The overall outcome of the project is highly unsatisfactory. Works defined in the SAR
have not been completed. Farmers' income, social;velfare, agricultural production have not been
improved. Institutional changes have not been implemented to: (a) ensure reliable water
distribution through adequate infrastructure management and O&M; and (b) cover all irrigation
costs through appropriate water tariffs. Nevertheless, despite all difficulties encountered, the
project presents some positive results, constituting a favorable asset if the works could be
resumed. Since works are not completed, and in the absence of a field visit, any economic analysis
of the actual situation, particularly the determination of rates of return, would be virtually
meaningless.
55.       Only 55% of the irrigation infrastructure was completed (Para 6). As a consequence,
no water can be distributed to the project area, and the agricultural production is still on rainfed
conditions. AGID is reportedly continuing the construction of the irrigation systems and the
pumping stations by local contractors, after the withdrawal of the Chinese construction company,
since the electro-mechanical equipment has been already purchased and a limited part installed.
H. Future Operation
56.       No plan for the Mitidja future operation has been prepared since a new project in
Algeria,-- the Irrigation Management Project --, could not be appraised early 1994 to implement
all necessary policy and structural reforms for the irrigation sub-sector. Due to the unexpected
aggravation of the situation in Algeria, the preparation of this new project was interrupted.
Priority should be given to the completion of the on-going works, security conditions permitting.
57.       Another important prerequisite should be to resume the Management Information
System study so as to provide OPIM with an adequate modem accounting system.
58.       In December 1994, the Bank proposed to the Government an Agricultural Structural
Adjustment Loan (ASAL) aiming at assisting the Government with the necessary reorganization
of the agricultural sector, with a particular view to founding future irrigation development in
Algeria on a sound basis. Studies financed by EEC and Japanese Bilateral Funds have been carried
out, and the ASAL has been postponed.
L Key Lessons Leamed
59.       Key lessons learned from the project can be summarized as follows:
(a)    the Bank should more carefully monitor project organizational changes. Low
tariffs and/or frequent droughts, as well as farmers' financial difficulties, led to
11



insufficient income for OPIM to provide a reliable water distribution. The
interruption of public subsidies should have been progressive and commensurate
with the expected revenue derived from authorized water tariffs, with a view to
allowing OPIM to ensure minimal O&M tasks;
(b)    timely provision of technical assistance and training should be provided from the
project's start by specific arrangements (as, for exarnple, Gvt./FAO Agreements
put in place with project's proceeds). The same agreements could also cover
training needs for the staff in charge of project's implementation and O&M.
Ideally, technical assistance for the supervision of works should be contracted at
the sarne time that works are tendered;
(c)    contracts for study, works or supply should include clauses which would clearly
define conditions for exchange rates; most of the contractors' claims arose from
equivocal specifications or interpretation on foreign exchange. The Bank should
monitor contractor's arrangements better;
(d)    all progress reports should include a financial balance sheet, in the form of a
bookkeeping system in local currency and in U.S. dollars to allow an easy
comparison of resources and expenditures for each category of loan proceeds,
and to show the available balance for the remaining activities;
(e)    AGID's project monitoring focused only on technical aspects of infrastructure
implementation under the responsibility of the Ministry of Equipment. All other
aspects, such as OPIMs restructuring, improving the performance of EAC and
EAI, and strengthening extension services in the project area, under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, were not dealt with; more attention
should be given to key indicators for project operation following its
implementation; at appraisal, the Bank should give greater care to the monitoring
system to be put in place for the project;
(f)    the Bank needs to  ensure that an enabling environment for project
implementation is created and maintained. Structural constraints negatively
affected the project in particular: shortage of foreign currency, shortage of
construction materials, deficiency in the banking sector delaying creditors
payments, cumbersome administrative procedures;
(g)    the financing of one third only of the infrastructure needed to mobilize and
convey the water to the irrigated areas, is not sufficient. Loan covenants do not
solve budgetary restrictions, and lack of ownership from the borrower.
12



PART H - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
A. Achievement of objectives     Substantial    Partial   Negligible   Applicable
V/)         V)          V)(/
Macro policies                   [I         [I                       W 
Sector policies                   I ]                  E            g
Financial objectives                                     W F  27    Fl
Institutional development        7           7          z           F7
Physical objectives              LI ]                   F7          F
Poverty reduction                F          F           E           F
Gender issues                   F           7          F             5
Other social objectives                                  W F  F    F
Environmental objectives         F           0            3 7
Public sector management        F           F          F           F
Private sector development       E          7                       7 /
Other (specify)
B. Proiect sustainability        Likely      Unlikely   Uncertain
(')         (1)        (1)
13



Highly
C. Bank performance                satisfactorv    Satisfactony  Deficient
(1)           ()          (1)
Identification                    z                        F7
Preparation assistance                        E            F  I
Appraisal                        EI [7E
Supervision                      F               1         F
HighlY
D. Borrower performance              satisfactory    Satisfacton   Deficient
(1)           (1)         (1)
Preparation (n.a.)                z                        F7
Implementation (acceptable)                    7           F E
Covenant compliance              E  
Operation (if applicable) (n.a.)                           E
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactorY
Acceptable
14



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan Title                       Purpose                  Year of            Status
Approval                           l
1159-AL: Technical                                              before      Completed in 1983
Assistance and Rural                                             1980
Development Project
1802-AL: Bas-Cheliff       Rehabilitation works on main conveyors   before  Completed in 1985
Irrigation Project                                               1980
2809-AL: Cheliff Irrigation  New irrigation infrastructures      1987       Works completed at 60%
Project                    on 8 000 ha in the Upper Cheliff Valley          Disbursement: 53% Closed
and rehabilitation of 3 000 ha in the           end 1994 (see ICR Report
Lower Cheliff to improve the income and         No. 14013)
social welfare of families living in project
area
2978-AL: Engineering        Create portfolio of feasibility studies for    1989  Studies completed 40%
irrigation projects for a 10-year national      Disbursement: 39%
investment program                              Closed:June 1994
3009-AL: Agricultural Credit  Strengthen the BADR (Banque        1988       Closed: Sept. 1992 (See
Agriculture et Developpement Rural)             PCR Report No 13196,
through financing of various agricultural       dated June 1994)
equipment, technical assistance and
training
3017-AL: Locust Control     Support Algeria's Locust Control     1988       Closed: Dec 1991
Program                                                                  l
3076-AL: Mitidja Irrigation   Inprove agricultural productivity by  1989    Closing date: June 1996.
Project                     developing 14 000 ha new irrigation in
the Western part of the Mitidja Plain
3216-AL: Research and      Initiate reform of national research  1990       Closing date: Dec. 31 1996.
Extension                   system and test new extension approaches        Restructuring being
for cooperative farms (EAC)                     considered
3405-AL:Sahara Development  Rehabilitation of southern oases and on-   1991  No disbursement in the last
farm development, supported by                  2 years; immediate closure
institution strengthening, technical            suggested Restructuring
assistance and training                         being considered
3487-AL: Forestry and      Develop a long-term action program to    1992    On-going restructuring; WB
Watershed National          better protect/manage Algeria's natural         suggested the cancellation
resources. Institution strengthening            of a US$12.2 million
undisbursed amount
3690-AL: Locust control     Support Algeria's Locust Control     1994       The feared locust invasion
Program                                         did not materialize;
immediate closure suggested
and cancellation of the
US$24 million undisbursed
amount July 94
15



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date planned     |         Date actual/
latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)          August 87             August 87
Preparation                                         November 87           November 87
Appraisal                                           May 88                May 88
Negotiations                                        April 89              April 89
Board presentation                                 May 89                 May 89
Signing                                            April 90               April 90
Effectiveness                                       June 90               June 90
Project completion                                  December 96           December 96
Closing                                            December 96            December 96
16



Table 4A: Annual Loan Disbursement
(US$ thousands)
FY91       FY92        FY93        FY94       FY95        FY9                       TOTAL                            SAR          % Actual/SAR
Special account                      9,962                                                                          9,962                    9,962
Ct 1: Civil works, buildings                                     973        1,601                   3,511           6,085
2,405         800                                   3,205
1,050       3,705                                   4,755
421        2,646                                   3,067
943       4,151                                    5,094
373                                                 373                   22,579               80,000      28
2: Equipment, vehicles,                       513           3,037          25   269                              3,844
etc.                                                                     146                                     146                   3X990               19,000      21
aL 3: Studies, trainig                                        5,511                                                5,511                   5,511                5,000      110
Sub-total             9,962       513          14,713       13,074   269        3,511               42,042                  42,042
Undisblused                                                                                                                                 1,233
lled                                                                                                                                   66,725
TOTAL                                                                                                                                    110,000              110,000       38
Table 4B: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY90                  FY91                    FY92                  FY93                    FY94                   FY95                   FY96
Appraisal estimate                       3.30                  15.40                  33.00                  50.60                  71.50                  92.40                 1 10.0C
Actual                                                          9.96                  10.47                  23.87                  38.26                  38.53                  42.04
etualas%ofappraisal                                   65%                    32%                    47Ye                  54%                    42%                     380%I
_te
e: WB Disbrsanenit Ifonnation PFPMR4
17



Table 5: Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation (December 1995)"
Appraisal      Actual %
Item                    Targets         Achieved              Comments
(End 1995)
Implementation
Period
L STRENGTHENING OF AGID/OPIM
1. Equipment                         .
. Maintenance equipment (SAR: 5)           1990           100       5 plants delivered
l Vehicles (SAR: 34)                       1990            12       4 vehicles delivered
. Motorcycles (SAR: 150)                   1990             0
. Radio equipment                          1990             0       Contract signed; delivery not yet
started
. Computing equipment                      1990           100       6 PC delivered
2. Studies
. Irrigation layout up-dating              1990           100
. Drainage/pollution control (ANRH)        1991             0       Financed by ANRH
. Phyto-sanitary control (INPV)            1991             0       No local budget
. Management Information System          1990/93           10       Contract approved
3. Training                            Project period       0       Budget issue
IL WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT
A. Djer Diversion
L Studies                                1989/90          100
| Bidding documents                        1991           100
| Construction
| B. Boukourdane Diversion
. Studies                                1989/90           100      Completed
. Bidding documents                      1990/91           100
Construction                            1991/93            0
iAccording to AGID Progress Report No. 13 (31.01.96).
k Project Completion Date: 30.06.95.
18



Quantities
Item                                              Progress in %    Comments
Design    Completed
Target    End 1995
m - IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE
a - Civil Works                                                           55 global                l
- Pipe supply                                   (in m.)     (in m.)
. precast concrete                              38 720       34 517         89
concrete+steel sheet                            6 330       6 288          99
. asbestos cement                               291 252     207 365         71
- Pipe layin2z
. precast concrete                               38 720      23 638         61
concrete+steel sheet                            6 330       6 264          99
. asbestos cement                             291 252      160 592         55
- uming stations(PSV/Storage-t-ank (S-TI
El Affiroun                                                                100
Lalla Aicha                                                                        Detailed
PS                                                                        0       design (DD)
ST                                                                       100      completed
. Hadjout                                                                   0       DD completed
- Gate structure                                                            30
b - Pumping equipment for 3 Units
. Supply                                                                   100
. Installation                                                              30
IV - ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT
. Sprinkler equipment                          15 600 ha                    0       Contract signed
19



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
not applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                      Status       Impact of Study
1. Study to develop and implement a plan   Done         Not implemented
for strengthening the organizational
structure of OPIM, including the
establishment and maintenance with
adequate resources of separate units:
(i) for the operation and maintenance
of irrigation facilities;
(ii) the storage, sale to farmers and after
sale services of irrigation
equipment;
(iii) the provision of extension services to
fanners on the selection of irrigation
equipment and on-farm water
management; and
(iv) the monitoring of cropping pattems
and efficiency of water use on the
farms.
. Study, including a base line            Done         Not implemented
enviromnental pollution survey, to
develop and implement a plan, including
an action program, to protect the
groundwater resources of the Project
Area against environmental pollution.                                l
3. Study to develop and implement a        Done         Not implemented
fertilizer and pest management plan.
20



Table 8A: Project Costs
('000 DA)
Item               ~ ~~~~Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate:aJ 
Item_l
Local      Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign   Total_
Water Resources Development
1. Diversion of Boukourdane             83 658      88 311     171 969
2. Diversion of Djer (Chifa dam)       106 033     112 537    218 569
Sub-total A             189 691     200 847    390 538
B. Hydroagricultural
Infrastructure
1. Halloula Lake                         9 231       9 664      18 896
2. Sector D                            121 589     144 267    265 856
3. Sector E                             68 725      78 815     147 541
4. Sector FG                            81 541      93 763     175 304
5. Sector A                             74 667      93 976     168 643
6. Sector B                            98 738     120 683    219 421
7. Sector C                             83 953     106 674     190 627
Sub-total B             538 445     647 843   1 186 288
C. Farm Investments
1. Agricultural production             255 774     137 552    393 326
Sub-total C             255 774     137 552    393 326
D. Administrative Strengthening
1. Ministry of Agriculture              18 085      22 952     41 037
l2. OPIM                                92 897      35 196     128 092
13. ANRH                                 1 610       1 910       3 521
Sub-total D             112 592      60 058     172 650
E. Environment Protection                1 637       4 401       6 038
Total base cost                       1 098 139   1 050 702   2 148 840
Physical contingencies                 119 229     125 436    244 665
Inflation                              196 911     177 945    374 856
ITOTAL PROJECT COST                   1 414 278   1 354 083   2 768 361
Information requested to AGID on July 11, 1996 and not yet received.
21



Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
SAR Estimate                    Effective Disbursements
Source of
Financing
Local             Foreign            Local            Foreign
World Bank                                 110.0                               42.04
Local credit            40.5                                                               l
Beneficiaries           26.5                                    ?
Government             248.9                                    ?
Other external                                                                    ?
financing
TOTAL                   315.9              110.0                               42.04
Missing information requested to AGID on July 11, 1996 and not yet received
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic evaluation of costs and benefits could not be undertaken since mission could not take place in the
country for the preparation of this ICR.
22



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Mitidja Irrigation Project
Loan     Covenant Present Ong. Fulfil. Rev. FulfiL  Description of Covenant                 Comments
Agreement    Type    Status      Date        Date
(Section)                                                                                                                l
4.01 (a)     F        OK                              Separate records and
accounts maintained for the
project                                                               l
4.01 (b)(c)    F      OK                              Accounts to be audited  Audit reports regularly received as of FY91 but
annually                unreliable since they are parpared by the state
. _________    _______                     ________    _____________________    Inspection  G& nerale  des Finances
5.0]         T        PC       12/90       12/92      Prepare and implement   Postponed; monitored
measures to phase out
pumping of ground water for
irrigation
5.02         T        OK       12/92                  Monitoring of ground water done; recommendations of the June 1991 mission on
quality                 pollution situation implemented
5.03         T        OK                              Regular inspections of Bou- Monitored by SPN missions until September 1993
Kourdane and Bou-Roumi-
dams
5.04 (a)     F        ACT                             To apply binomial tariff    Notice of suspension of disbursement sent on 11/1/93
structure
5.04 (b)     F        ACT                             Carry out a study of capital Notice of suspension of disbursement sent on 11/1/93
and O&M cost recovery
levels
5.04 (c)     F        ACT      12/91       12/93      Propose a program to    Notice of suspension of disbursement sent on 11/l/93
implement the application of
binomial water tariffs
Sch. 5 B     T        NC                              Completion of Bou-       Construction of Sector C stopped
Kourdane pipeline
(31.12.93) and Djer dam
(30.6.95)
Sch. 5 C, 2a   M      OK                              Recruitment of consultants  Consultant has been recruited
for supervision of works
Sch. 5 C, 4    M      OK       31/12/91               Prepare a draft of a O&M    Model manual approved
manual
Sch. 5 C, 4    M      OK       31/5/95                Final draft of this manual
Sch. 5 E, 2a   M      NC       31/12/91    31/12/93   Carry out a study to organize Notice of suspension of disbursement sent on 1/11/93
OPIM
Sch. 5E, 2a   M       ACT      3 1/12/92    31/21/93   Implement such study   Notice of suspension of disbursement sent on 1/11/93
Sch. 5 E, 2b   M      OK       31/12/92               Carry out studies for    See 5.02 above
groundwater protection                                                l
23



Loan     Covenant Present Orig. Fulfil. Rev. Fulfil. Description of Covenant                Comments
Agreement   Type    Status       Date       Date
(Section)
Sch. 5 E, 2b   M      OK       31/12/93              Implement such study
Sch. 5 E, 2c   M      OK       30/6/92               Carry out a study for
pesticide and fertilizer
management
Sch. 5 E, 3c   M      NC       30/6/94              lImplement such study     I
Key:
Covenant Type                    Status
E - Economic                     ACT - Needs use of formal remedies to bring into compliance
F - Financial                   NYD - Not yet due
M - Managerial                   OK  - Covenant complied with
T - Technical                    RVS - Revision required
PC - Partially complied with
NC - Not complied with
24



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title               Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
BP 6.50: Disbursement profiles                    Slow disbursement because of cumbersome payment
procedure
Use of Consultants by WB Borrowers (1981)        Reluctantly complied with
General Conditions Applicable to Loans and Guarantee   Final evaluation report not prepared by the borrower
Agreements (1985): Section 9.07
OD 8.40: Technical Assistance                    No proper system to mobilize the technical assistance
OD 10.60: Accounting, Financial Reporting, and   Generally not complied with
Auditing
OD 10.70: Project Monitoring and Evaluation      Limited monitoring and complete lack of evaluation
OD 11.00: PROCUREMENT                            Many specifications not complied with
(11.02: Procurement arrangements for Investment
Operations)
OD 13.05: Project Supervision                    Only by an Irrigation Engineer
OD 13. 10: Borrower Compliance with Audit Covenants   Not complied with until FY91
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised                  Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle
Weeks   '000 US$    Weeks    '000 US$         Weeks    '000 US$
Through appraisal           135.5      205.0       135.5       205.5       135.5       205.0
Appraisal-Board              19.5       52.7        19.5        52.7        19.5        52.7
Board-effectiveness
Supervision                  41.6      130.5        41.6       130.5        35.0       110.9
Completion                    7.5       28.4         7.5        28.4         7.5        28.4
TOTAL                      204.1      416.6       204.1      417.1        197.5       397.0
25



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Specialized     Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle  Month/Year  Number of  Days in   Staff Skills                            Types of
Persons    Field   represented"                           Problems
Implementation  Development
Status b/    Objectives
hrough appraisal Dec.87 -May 88
Appraisal - Board  May 88 - May 89
Board -           May 89 - June 90
ffectiveness
Supervision       June 90 - Jan. 94
SPN 1             3 July 90              1        8           E            1             1
SPN2              23 Oct. 90            1         10          E            1             1
SPN3              5 Nov. 91              1        7           E            3            2         M, P
SPN4              10 June 92            1         13         E             3            3        M, P, F
SPN5              Nov. 92 (NO           1         2          E
F.590)
SPN6              13 Dec. 93            2         6         E, Ec          4            4        all types
ompletion       June 96                1         0          E            -
9 E = Engineer; Ec = Economist.
v'1 to 4: good to unsatisfactory.
g M = Managerial; P = Procurement F = Financial.
26



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
APPENDICES
A.    Missing Information
B.    Borrower contribution to ICR
No comments were received despite reminders
C.    Cofinancier contribution to the ICR
n/a
D.    Miscellaneous appendices
n/a






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT (Loan 3076-AL)
Appendix A: Missing Information
As security conditions in Algeria prevented any field visit and related discussions with Algerian
Officials, and on the other hand as AGID never answered the FAO/CP fax dated July 11, 1996,
soliciting additional information on actual project expenses and financing arrangements, the mission
was dissuaded to request any other data. As a consequence, the following questions and issues
remained unsolved at the issuing date of the present report:
(a)    The actual implementation progress, including financing arrangements, and expected
completion date:
(i)   the Boukourdane-Mitidja pipeline and the diversion infrastructure from the
Djer River to the Bou Roumi Reservoir (paras. 5, 30 and 31);
(ii)  the construction of drainage and road systems on 15,800 ha, and of a housing,
offices, workshops and warehouses (paras. 7 and 8);
(iii)  the provision of credit to farmers for on-farm development, and related
technical assistance for the setting up on OPIM unit for equipment sale (paras.
10 and 18);
(iv)  the first and second sub-components of the institutional strengthening
component (paras. 11 and 12);
(v)   completion of civil works for the irrigation infrastructure by COSIDER, the
national contractor, responsible to take over the job after the contract
resignation of the Chinese enterprise (para. 41);
(b)   the status of technical assistance:
(i)   volume of technical assistance actually used for supervision work, provided by
POLSERVICE and by AGID (para. 14);
(ii)   changes in land tenure in the project area since 1983 (para. 15);
27



(iii)   was the rapid water cost study contracted to ISPG in 1994 for the Cheliff
scheme, also relevant for OPIM ? (para. 16),
(iv)   was  the  Management  Information  System   Study  contracted  to
SFC/SEDES/CEGOS in 1993 for the Mitidja scheme, also relevant for
OPIM? (paras. 17 and 49);
(c)   the major factors affecting the project listed in paras. 23 and 24:
(d)   the actual project expenses (para. 27 and table 8B);
(e)   status, and possible impact of the various studies (para. 6);
(f)   the ex-post economic analysis of costs and benefits.
28



