Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Re.twt No. 7514-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
MAY 10, 1989
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Country Department II
Agriculture Operations Division
|This documen.t has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aothorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             a             Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$1.00                   =             DA 6.5
DA 1.00                   =             US$ 0.154
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ANB        Agence Nationale de Barrages
(National Agency for Dam Construction)
AGID       Agence Nationale d'Irrigation et de Drainage
(National Irrigation and Drainage Authority)
ANRH       Agence Nationale de Ressources Hydrauliques
(National Agency for Water Resources)
BADR       Banque de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural
(Agriculture and Rural Development Bank)
CASSAP     Cooperative Agricole Specialisee en Approvisionnements
(Agricultural Cooperative Specialized in Inputs)
DAS        Domaine Agricole Socialiste
(Socialist Farm)
EAC        Exploitation Agricole Collective
(Small Group of Private Farmers)
EAI        Exploitation Agricole Individuelle
(Individual Farm)
EDIMA      Entreprise de Distribution et de Maintenance de Materiel Agricole
(Company for the Distribution and Maintenance of Agricultural
Equipment)
EIB        European Investment Bank
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
INPV       Institut National de Protection Vegetale
(National Institute for Plant Protection)
LCB        Local Competitive Bidding
LSI        Large Scale Irrigation Scheme
SSI        Small Scale Irrigation Scheme
MA         Ministere de l'Agriculture
(Ministry of Agriculture)
MH         Ministere de l'Hydraulique
(Ministry of Hydraulics)
M          Million
mm 3       Million cubic meters
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
OPI        Office des P6rimitrfs d'Irrigation
(Regional Irrigation Authority)
OPIM       Office du Perimetre d'Irrigation de la Mitidja
(Regional Irrigation Authority for Mitidja)
PU         Project Unit
WMIP       West Mitidja Irrigation Project



FM OUFIC4AL UU ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower      C-overnment of Algeria
Amount        US$110 million equivalent
Term          15 years including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project       The project would complete tie ongoing West Mitidja Irrigation
Description: Scheme started in 1983. It would expand the area under large
scale irrigation by 14,000 ha (net) which would, in turn,
increase agricultural production. The project would support the
t,ew groups of private farmers with on-farm development and
thereby improve farmers' income and reduce unemployment. It
would strengthen local and national institutions, helping them to
undertake project surveys, design, implementation, operation and
maintenance and provide irrigation support services. The project
would also address environmental issues associated with
irrigation development. The project wnuld consist of (a) water
resources development involving the construction of the
Boukourdane pipeline and Djer diversion; (b) irrigation
development on 14,000 ha and construction of drainage and road
systems on 15,80C ha; (c) on-facm development, involving
installation of irrigation equipment on 22,000 ha and
agricultural development on 15,800 ha; (d) institutional
development involving strengthening: the recently created
National Agency for Irrigation and Drainage (AGID); the Project
Unit (PU) for supervising the construction works; the Regional
Irrigation Authority for Mitidja (OPIM) in charge of O&M; the
National Agency for Water Resources (ANRH) responsible for, inter
alia, drainage investigations, and; the National Institute for
Plant Protection (INPV) to prepare and implement a fertilizer and
pest management plan.
Benefit       The project would directly benefit 5,100 farmers and
and Risks    increase production of fruits, vegetables and livestock.  The
major risk emerges from the possible slow uptake of irrigation by
the EAC farmers resulting from lack of experience with
irrigRtion. Evidence to date shows that the newly formed EAC
farmers are working harder than ever before and are eager to
benefit from irrigation, which provides a measure of drought
proofing. Risks will also be minimized through support to the
farmers in on-farm irrigation and parallel Government programs to
improve agriculture research and extension, agriculture credit
and providing adequate inputs to the agriculture sector.
This documc'nt has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Prolect Costs:'A
Local       Foreign      Total
…-----US$Million---
Water Resources Development            29.2          30.9        60.1
Irrigation Development                 82.8          99.7       182.5
On-farm Development                    39.4          21.1        60.5
Institutional Development              17.3           9.2        26.6
Environmental Protection                0.3           0.7         0.9
Total Base Costs                   168.9         161.6       330.6
Physical Contingencies                 18.3          19.3        37.6
Price Contingencies                    30.3          27.4        57.7
Total Project costs                217.6         208.3      425.9
Financin& Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
----------US$Million---------
Government                               150.6          98.3       248.9
Local Financing"k                         40.5           -          40.5
Beneficiaries                             26.5           -          26.5
Bank                                       -           110.0       110.0
Total                                 217.6         209.3       425.9
Estimated Bank Disbursements:   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
------------------(US$ million)---------------
Annual                    3.3   12.1   17.6   17.6   20.9   20.9   17.6
Cumulative                3.3   15.4   33.0   50.6   71.5   92.4  110.0
Economic Rate of Return:          about 121
Maps:                             IBRD 2i124 Project Location
IBRD 21125 Project Area
/a   Minor discrepancies due to rounding.
/b   National agriculture credit banks



- iii -
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pase No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.     INTRODUCTION .............. ............................                         1
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTORR....                                                        1
A. Role of Agriculture in the Economy.                                           1
B. Bank's Involvement in the Setor.                                              7
III. THE WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION SCHEME                   .         .                   8
IV. THE PROJECT AREA                        . . .10
A. Population, Climate and Soils                    ....10
B. Land Tenure, Land Use, and Yields                   ....                     10
C. Livestock                        ....12
D. Agricultural Support Services                    ....12
V. THE PROJECT                                  . . .    14
A. Project Objectives                       ....14
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement                    ....15
C. Main Project Features                      ....15
D. Detailed Features                       ....15
E. Status of Project Preparation                   ... .17
F. Implementation Schedule                      . ...17
G. Cost Estimates                ...                                           18
H. Project Financing                       ....18
I. Procurement                        ....19
J. Disbursement                         . . . ..    21
K. Environmental Impact                ...                                     22
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission, which
visited Algeria in May/June 1988, comprising Mr. W.A. Van Tuijl and
Ms. I. Schirmer (Bank) and Messrs. R. Canessa, C.G.E.M. Van Beek and H. Boukes
(consultants)



L
Table of Contents (Cont'd)             - iv -                    Page No.
VI.  ORGA.NIZATION AND MANAGEMENT             .............................  23
A.  General .............................................      23
B.  Implementation of Project Infrastructure ............      23
C. On-Farm Development ......................... .......       24
D.  Agricultural Development ............................      25
E.  Operation and Maintena nce ...........................     25
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation .............................    25
G. Accounts and Audits            ............ .               26
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION               ... .   26
A. General .............................................    26
B.  Land Use, Yields and Production           .      .         26
C.  Marketing and Prices        .................    30
D.  Farm Incomes ........................................    32
E.  Cost Reccvery ................  ......................    32
F. Economic Analysis                  ..                       35
G.  Risks and Sensitivity Analysis           .       .         36
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION       .    .       38
ANNEXES
1. Project Cost Summary .                                           40
2.  Project Components by Year .41
3.    List of Equipment to be Procured under Bank Loan .42
4.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .43
5. Action Plan .44
6.  Outline of Training Program .46
7.    Summary Terms of Reference    ...........................     47
8.    Land Use under Various Situations .52
9.    Yields, Without and With Project at Full Development           53
10.   Expected Production With and Without Project ............    54
11.   Increases in Annual Production from the Project Area ....     55
12.   Cost Recovery in 1987 Constant Prices ...................    56
13.   Rent Recovery and Incremental Income Recovery Indices at
Full Development ........................................    57
14.   Shadow Price Factors Used in the Economic Analysis for
Off-Farm Investment Costs ...............................    58
15.   Selected Economic and Financial Prices for On-Farm
Development .............................................    59
16.   Documents in Project File ...............................    60



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                - v -                       Pate No.
CHARTS
C-1   Water Supply and Demand ...............................             61
C-2 Implementation Schedule                      ..                       62
C-3   Organization Chart, Ministry of Hydraulics ..............           63
MAPS
IBRD 21124    Project Location
IBRD 21125    Project Area



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The 18,250 ha West Mitidja Irrigation Project (WMIP) proposed for
Bank financing would complete the 27,500 ha West Mitidja Irrigation Scheme
that was started in 1983 with the construction of dams and reservoirs (para
3.04). Construction of the irrigation network for 9,250 ha (Phase I of the
Scheme) is expected to be completed with Government financing in 1989.
1.02     The WMIP was identified by a Bank project identification mission in
February 1985 as a project which may be suitable for Bank financing, together
with the Cheliff Irrigation Project, which has subsequently been financed by
the Bank (Loan 2809-ALG). These two projects are situated in the two
geographical areas of Algeria where both land and water resources are
particularly suitable for t. development of irrigation.   Government has
decided, before implementing the second phase of the Cheliff Project, to
proceed first with the development of the WMIP in order to make early use of
substantial investments in previous hydratvlic infrastructure already achieved
in the project area. The West Mitidja Irrigation Scheme is part of the Master
Plan for the Algiers-Sebaou Region which was completed by Binnie and Partners
(UK) in 1983. Detailed designs and bidding documents for WMIP were prepared
by the Compagnie Nationale d'Amenagement de la Region du Bas-Rhone et du
Languedoc (CNARBRL) of France, in 1985. A feasibility study for the Mitidja
p-oject had already been completed by the same company in 1981.  An FAO/CP
Project Preparation mission visited Algeria in November/December 1987 and
submitted its report to the Government and the Bank in March i988.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Role of Agriculture in the Economy
Physical and Macro-Ecornomic Sett
2.01.    Only 20 S (or 47 M ha) of Algeria's total land area of 238 M ha is
suitable for agriculture, most of which is in the north and the pre-desert
steppe.  However, only 7.5 M ha, or 3S, is suitable for cultivation; the



- 2 -
balance of the arable land is suitable for grazing, forests, esparto scrubs
and shrub. Of the 7.5 M ha about 402 is left fallow, slightly less than 402
is planted in cereals, 102 in forage crops, and the remaining 101 are devoted
mostly to fruit and vegetable cultivation (1986 land use data). Agricultural
development in Algeria faces a number of physical constraints: (a) the high
proportion of land unusable for agriculture and of rangelands as yet difficult
to improve; (b) the high proportion of land that has shallow, erodable soils
and low organic content; (c) climatic factors, including erratic and low
rainfall, cold winteLs coinciding with the rainy season which inhibit growth
when water is available, and hot summers, requiring irrigation for crop
growth; and (d) limited availability of water for irrigation, competition with
domestic and ind&strial use, and salinity problems.
2.02     In addition to these physical constraints, the development of
agr.culture in Algeria was severely limited by Algeria's strategy after
independence, which concentrated on industrialization and reduced dependence
on foreign investments and imports. The major instruments used in the pursuit
of these objectives were central planning of the economy and reliance on
public enterprises in industry and services; in agriculture, Government
undertook an agrarian revolution which included the creation of socialist
farms, and a shift from export orientation developed during the colonial
period to meeting domestic food requirements. Since 1974 tne resources uscd
for such a strategy have been largely supplied through exploitation and
exportation of hydrocarbons.
2.03     The impact on the agricultural sector was two-fold: (i) deficiencies
were encountered in the production and distribution of key farm inputs which
were totally controlled by public entities and, more importantly; (ii)
Socialist Farms (DASs), which occupied the most fertile land and accounted for
about 60% of the agricultural potential of the country, proved to be
inefficient agricultural producers.
2.04     The outcome was sluggish agricultural growth and inefficient use of
resources. In spite of the favorable terms of trade received by the
agricultural sector over the last fifteen years, the level of technical
prcficiency at the farm was inadequate to make full use of available
resources, let alone to move agriculture on the path of iiinovation and
increased productivity. As a matter of fact, this favorable treatment had
little impact on the production of the DASs which were largely immune to price
incentives.
2.05     This economic strategy brought mixed results and macro-economic
imbalances.  Overall the pace of development, while rapid, was not
commensurate with the enormous levels of investment. In the early 1980s,
following a change of leadership, Government changed the economic policy with
more emphasis being given to improved management and efficiency. This became
all the more important as most economic indicators turned sharply unfavorable
in response to the 1986 fall in oil prices. This shift in economic policy led
to the introduction of a series of far reaching reforms cutting across most
sectors of the economy.  These reforms aim to decentralize the economy, make
it more responsive and market-oriented, increase its efficiency, essentially
through better utilization of existing capacity, and place greater reliance on
the small but growing private sector.
Ill IIc



- 3 -
2.06     Several reforms were undertaken in the agricultural sector aiming to
increase efficiency by liberalizing prices and drastically reducing public
involvement at the production level. These reforms are discussed in para 2.12.
Genemi Performance and Trends in the Sector
2.07     Agriculttre remains one of the dominant sectors in the economy.
About half of Algeria's population of 23 M liva in rural areas and about 25 X
of the labor force is still employed in agriculture. For a number of reasons,
including the dramatic increase in importance of the oil and gas sectors, the
share of agriculture in aggregate value added has declined from about 13X in
the early 1960s to about 72 in the mid-1970s. Since then, it has remained
constant at around 7-8a, showing that agriculture has grown at the same rate
as the rest of the economy.
2.08     Since the early 1960's agriculture perfo-  .ce in Algeria has been
disappointing overall, but it has improved over tale last 10 years. Over the
1964-86 period, the gross value of agriculture, .n constant 1986 terms, grew
at about 2.82 p.a., less than the growth rate of population, but between 1977
and 1986 at 5X p.a., which is by mcit indicators a good performance. The main
sources of growth in gross value over the last 10 years have been e shift into
higher value, higher yielding vegetables and certain fruits, by replacing
lower value crops, and an increase in livestock producti3n, particularly red
meat and poultry production.
2.09     For most crops Sowever, present yields are only about 70% of those in
other Mediterranean countries, and yields have remained stagnant for over
twenty years. Production of staple food, grains and pulses has also
stagnated. As a result of the fast growing population (at about 3.27 per
annum) and increases in per capita incomes (averaging about 3.5% p.a.) food
consumption grew at around 6-7% p.a. from the mid-1960's to the late 1970's.
Consequently, the food gap has widened and this has become a major issue ir.
Algeria. Algeria now imports up to 70'Z of its basic food requirement compared
to only ;out 25Z in the 196.-70 period.
2.10     Self sufficiency ratios for wheats have dropped from 90Z in 1962 to
70X in the 1966-70 period and to 24X in the 1982-86 period.  Unless production
can be increased significantly, the food gap in wheats could reach over 5 M
tons by the year 2000 and become an even more serious burden on the balance of
payments. Among foodstuff imports, dairy products have been the fastest
growing item and have increased by more than a third in nominal terms, from DA
1,100 M in 1980 to an estimated DA 1,490 M in 1987.
2.11     One should distinguish between the relatively poor performance of the
socialist sector and the stronger performance of the private 3ector. Until
the reform of 1988 (para 2.12), the socialist, state owned and run, farming
sector occupied the most fertile land in the country and had privileged access
to equipment, inputs and credit and other services.  The Socialist Farms
(DASs) cultivated about 432 of the total cultivated area and produced 40 to.,
50X of the major food crops, wheat and barle;, and 20 to 307. of fruits aL.
vegetables. Their cereal. yields have been slightly higher than yields in the
private sector, partly because of great r availability of inputs and partly
because they are on the most fertile land. But for fruits and vegetables,
which require much more labor, yields have been substantially higher (20 to
l ll Ilc



- 4 -
1002) in the private sector, although private farmers had very limited access
to inputs, equipment and credit. The DASs generally had operating deficits
and were a large drain on Government resources. The private, small scale,
farming sector, by contrast, has performed well in spite of its handicaps; it
has taken advantage of emerging opportunities in the poultry sub-sector,
fruits and vegetables production, and land development in the southern part of
the country.
Azricultural Reforms
2.12     To improve the performance of the agricultural sector the Government
has increasingly liberalized the sector since 1980. Output prices have been
increased significantly, particularly with the 1982 liberalization of fruit
and vegetable prices. Similarly, prices of inputs, more or less fixed from
1974 through 1983, have been increased substantially, although some input
prices still remain slightly subsidized. It is Government's intention to
complete in 1989 the implementation of its price policy for agricultural
inputs and equipment and which would fully reflect financial costs; interest
rates have already been increased. The Government has gradually increased the
access of private farmers to inputs, equipment and credit, and introduced a
series of reforms to improve the DAS performance. Finally, in 1988 Government
undertook a fundamental reform: the dismantlement of the DASs and the
establishment of small groups of private farmers (EACs), which would be
autonomous and free from Government management. The reform was implemented in
a short time; the dismantlement of the DASs, the establishment of the EACs,
the valuation of DASs' assets and their transfer to the new EACs was
substantially completed in slightly more that 6 months. EACs consist of
groups of a minimum of three farmers, but more generally 6-7 individuals from
the same affinity or family group. The EACs operate like private farms; they
are responsible for arranging their own financing with the support of the
Agriculture and Rural Development Bank (BADR) and other banks. Government is
expected to maintain its strategy of disengaging from direct involvement in
the agricultural sector, and to strengthen support services to the EACs and
othei private farmers.
2.13     The dismantlement of the DASs and the creation of EACs is a far
reaching reform which will have profound implications for the agricultural
sector, particularly for support services, which need to be totally
restructured. The fundamental change is the replacement of a rigid centrally
planned system by a much more diversif.ed system of free entities responsive
to market signals. Consequently, support services will have to convert from a
centrally administered system to a demand driven framework, in which they have
to meet diversified, variable and rather unpredictable needs. This turn
around has implications not only for the support services in direct contact
with EACs but also upstream and downstream for the national offices and
state-owned enterprises which are producing or importing inputs and equipment,
or processing and distributing or exporting outputs. The implications for the
proposed Project are discussed in Daras 4.06 - 4.12.
Sources of future growth
2.14     Both Government and the new EACs can significantly influence future
growth of the Algerian agricultural sector in a number of ways. First,
institutional changes combined with adequate incentives could result in
increased productivity and increased yields and, if the incentive structure is
1 l 1 Ic



adequate, reduction of fallow area. Second, public sector investments could
increase the area under irrigation and could develop the South, which also
involves expanding the area under irrigation, but should be considered as a
separate investment/ development program. The two major potential sources of
growth are yield increases and irrigation development. Yields could increase
(i) in the short term as a consequence of the privatization of the DASs and;
(ii) in the longer term, with the gradual build-up of institutions capable of
delivering the necessary inputs and services, a critical factor being the
development of an effective research and extension system. Algeria may be
able to close the yield gap with neighboring Maghreb countries by as early as
1990 and subaequently to achieve a steady yield increase across crops of up to
3X per year. The expansion of the area under irrigation would (i) stabilize
production by providing an element of drought-proofing, (ii) increase the area
under cultivation by increasing cropping intensities, (iii) ini'uce a shift to
higher value crops, and also (iv) increase yields. The Project will assist
Government in realizing some of this potential growth by expanding irrigation
in one of the most fertile agricultural areas in the country.
The Irrigation Sub-sector
2.15     Relative to Morocco and Tunisia, Algeria lags in development of
irrigation. Under present conditions, about 290,000 ha are currently
irrigated in any year representing about 40% of the potential, tentatively
estimated at 750,000 ha. (excluding the Sahara, where some limited irrigation
development using non renewable fossil-based groundwater resources may be
possible).
2.16     There are basically two types of irrigation: large-scale irrigation
schemes (LSIs) and small-scale irrigation schemes (SSIs). LSIs currently
comprise eight schemes ranging from 3,000 ha to 11,003 ha each, with a total
effectively irrigated area of 60,000 ha. About 230,000 ha are covered by SSIs
which can be modern or traditional and vary in size from a few to several
hLndred hectares. The potential for expanding SSIs is likely to be limited.
All existing small rivers and shallow aquifers were developed long ago.
Irrigation development in Algeria would therefore rely mainly on LSIs for
which an unused potential exists of about 450,000 ha. About 902 of the
irrigable area is concentrated in the coastal strip where suitable soil and
water resources are available. In contrast, there appears to be little scope
for irrigation in the arid plateaux.
2.17     (overnment strategy for irrigation development has substantially
evolved since Independence in response to changing priorities. From the early
1960s to around 1980, major capital investments were made in water storage
transfer and distribution, benefitting large cities and industrial areas,
while irrigation was given a low priority. During this period, the total
irrigated area in Algeria virtually stagnated. This trend was reversed in the
early 1980s when Government increased its budget allocation for irrigation aad
started accelerating rehabilitation work, launching new projects and drawing
up master plans. An ambitious SSI program for construction of 1,000 small
earth dams was implemented. Results are not yet visible in terms of
additional irrigated areas under LSI due to the priority given to the
rehabilitation of existing systems and the long lead time fror design to
construction for any new LSI. Ongoing programs suggest that an additional
l1 IIc



50,000 ha under new LSIs will be gradually completed from 1988 to 1995.
However, Government indicated its objective to complete as much as
20,000 ha/year with a view to have the potential 500,000 ha under irrigation
by 2010 (excluding the Sahara).
2.18     Significant progress has been made by Government in setting up an
adequate institutional framework for irrigation development. The Ministry of
Hydraulics (MH) was created in 1980, and with specific departments for SSI and
LSI. The ministerial framework also includes the National Agency for Dams
(ANB), a semi-autonomous organization for dam construction and the National
Agency for Water Resources (ANRH) responsible for soil surveys and gathering
of hydrological data. In 1986, Government established independent Regional
Irrigation Authorities (OPIs) to be responsible for operation of all LSIs,
including the Regional Irrigation Authority for Mitidja (OPIM). It is
Government's intention that these semi- autonomous authorities be funded
solely through the recovery of water charges, a major commitment to resolve a
long outstanding problem of financing operation and maintenance (O&M). To
this end, Government increased charges on water for irrigation by 56% in
1985. While this covers about 50% of the O&M charges, Government has
undertaken to recover 100l of O&M costs and 25Z of capital costs in the
recently effective Cheliff Irrigation Project -- again a major improvement in
cost recovery. For the Mitidja Scheme the volumetric water charge has
recently been increased from 0.18 DA/m' to 0.35 DA/m3 and the fixed annual
levy from 200 DA/ha to 300 DA/ha. Government is still studying the issue of
water charges and expects to complete its recommendations by June 1989.  More
recently, in January 1988, Government established a semi-autonomous agency,
the National Irrigation and Drainage Authority (AGID), to help overcome
administrative and budgetary bottlenecks and facilitate the design and
implementation of irrigation projects. However, AGID is still facing a
serious lack of experienced staff and considerable efforts for staff
development and training will be required to ensure AGID's implementation
capacity for supervising an ambitious expansion program.
2.19     A number of issues relate to the large and rapid expansion of
irrigation. These involve water planning and management, budgetary
limitations, implementation capacity, economic viability, environmental
implicatiors and institutional requirements. First is the issue of water
availability. Long-term projections show that water demand and supply would
be in balance nationwide in the year 2010 provided no important water sources
are lost to pollution; under the assumption, inter alia, that 500,000 ha would
be developed under LSIs and a 45 million population.  A major effort should
begin now to introduce measures to conserve water, by setting realistic water
charges (Government has recently also increased charges for domestic use by
67X) and by encouraging efficient irrigation methods, recharging aquifers
wherever possible, recycling waste water for irrigation and preparing
long-term plans for integrated water use. Second is the issue of the high
cost of developing LSIs. Algeria's physical endowments are not conducive for
economic development of irrigation. Because Algeria's rainfall is relatively
low and its catchment areas small, mobilization of water resources through
dams and tunnels is expensive. Most LSIs are therefore expected to be rathei
costly at about US$ 20,000/year. This would imply an annual investment of
about US$300 million per year or more; it is not certain that such a high
level of investment in irrigation could be funded. Given this high cost of
irrigation development, MH would have to strengthen its capacity to assess the
economic viability of investments in the irrigation sector (see the Irrigation
Engineering Loan discussed in paras 2.20 and 2.21 below). Third, the



sustainability of water development is at risk because major water resources
may be lost to pollution or reservoir sedimentation. Apparently there has
already been a considerable increase in pollution of rivers caused by
industries and urban development. In addition, run-off from agricultural
areas has added to pollution. Algeria will therefore need to strengthen its
capacity to monitor surface and groundwater quality.
2.20     To deal with the above issues, it is necessary that the planning
capacity at the central level be strengthened to coordinate in particular (a)
water supply and irrigation projects; (b) use of groundwater and surface
water; (c) infrastructure construction and agricultural development in LSIs;
(d) economic evaluation and setting priorities for irrigation projects; and
(e) environment protection and water development.  To this end, the Irrigation
Engineering Project (FY88, Loan 2978-AL), includes the preparation by ME of a
10-year irrigation plan which would provide a framework to consider these
issues. In addition to providing financial support for a high priority LSI the
proposed Project would provide an example for the resolution of some of these
issues, inter alia by: (i) providing institutional support for project
implementation, operation and maintenance, including promotion of efficient
use of water on the farm, and improved aquifer management, ind; (ii) the
preparation and implementation of an integrated fertilizer and pest management
program to protect the Mitidja aquifer, and the undertaking of a base line
environment pollution survey.
B. Bank's Involvement in the Sector
2.21     Bank Group lending for agriculture in Algeria started in 1974, and to
date only six projects have been approved for a total of US$326 million of
Bank funds. Performance under the first three projects was mixed, reflecting
the institutional constraints in the sector. The Technical Assistance - Rural
Development Project (Loan 1159-AL) was completed in 1983 after considerable
delays; the project partly met its objectives of analyzing the major
constraints and designing and, in some cases, testing different approaches to
rural development in Algeria. The Bas-Cheliff Irrigation Project (Loan
1802-AL) was completed in 1985, two years after the closing date foreseen at
appraisal. Delays occurred when no bids were received from international
contractors for the major civil works because of the very modest size of these
works. The works were finally carried out by a local public sector
enterprise. The project's physical works were completed by the end of 1986
and project studies provide an essential framework for the development of the
Cheliff river basin. The completion report (June lq86) concluded that given
the difficulties of operating in Algeria and especially with the MH before its
reorganization in 1984, it would have been more realistic to foresee a
five-year instead of a three-year implementation period. However, the project
offered a unique opportunity to MH staff to become fully aware of the
difficulties connected with the rehabilitation of small and scattered
irrigation works and included training of staff to deal with small scale
irrigation. The Meat Industry Project (Loan 1739-AL) was cancelled in 1983 at
I i i iC



- 8 -
Government's request, a few months after the loan became effective. A fourth
project, the Cheliff Irrigation Project, (Loan 2809-AL), will assist
irrigation expansion and rehabilitation on 13,000 ha and with the improvement
of O&M and cost recovery. Also in irrigation, the Irrigation Eng.neering
Project (Loan 2978-AL) will assist with the setting rp of a 10 year
development program for irrigation for inclusion in the next Five Year Plan
(1990-1995), including a program for the development of medium and small scale
irrigation as well as the preparation of feasibility studies for large scale
irrigation. In addition, the Bank is examining the whole issue of water
resources management in Algeria with special emphasis on the conservation of
water and the prevention of pollution. Finally, the Agriculture Credit
Project (Loan 3010-AL) has been approved by the Board, while an Agriculture
Research and Extension Project is scheduled to be appraised shortly.
2.22     Bank's strategy in the Algerian agricultural sector is to support the
sweeping reforms recently undertaken by easing Government's transition
problems and helping reduce the risks of failure.  This is planned to be
achieved through support of specific activities such as extension and credit
through separate loans rather than using irrigation investment projects as a
vehicle for such activities. Bank's current involvement in the sector aims to
(a) improve the availability of basic inputs to agriculture; (b) assist the
development of institutions and services and their adaption to the new
environment, particularly for irrigation, credit, research and extension; and
(c) foster the establishment of a sound price and incentives policy.
Ifl. THE WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION SCHEME
3.01     The West Mitidja Irrigation Scheme involves the development of water
resources and irrigation and drainage infrastructure over 27,500 ha (gross) in
the western part of the Mitidja plain, about 50 km west of Algiers, at an
altitude of about lOOm (IBRD Map 21124). The area is served by a good network
of main roads; the road and railway connecting Algiers with Oran pass through
the area.
3.02     Water Resources Development.  The Irrigation Scheme would be served
by two dams: the Moustakbel (Bou Roumi) dam and reservoir on the Bou Roumi
river completed in 1985, serving 21,100 ha (net) ar.d the multi-purpose
Boukourdane dam and reservoir, still under construction, serving Sector C
(2,700 ha net) of WMIP. The 100 m high Moustakbel earth dam has a gross
storage capacity of 188 Mm3.  The Moustakbel reservoir also receives
supplies from the Harbil river through a 4.6 km diversion tunnel (completed in
1988) and will receive additional supplies in 1989 from the now nearly
completed Chiffa diversion tunnel (length 12.3 km). The Boukourdane dam, also
an earth dam, will have a height of 55 m and a storage capacity of 97 Mm3
(gross). The still to be constructed Boukourdane pipeline will not only serve
Sector C but will also supply potatle water and water for other irrigation
schemes. All above mentioned existing structures have been financed by the
Government. Supplementary supplies to the Moustakbel reservoir are being
planned from a diversion on the Djer river.
I I Ilc



- 9 -
3.03     The West Mitidja Irrigation Scheme is included in the Master Plan
prepared by Binnie and Partners (UK) completed in 1983 for the Algiers-Sebaou
Region. The Plan estimates the total annual water demand for the Region by
the year 2010 at 1,661 Mm3 out of which 921 Mm3 for urban needs and 740
Mm3 for agriculture. About two-thirds of the agricultural water demand (492
Mm3) is earmarked for about 90,000 ha of irrigation development in the
Mitidja plain. The Mitidja aquifer which is expected to yield some
310 Mm3/annum by the year 2010 is planned to be exclusively used for urban
and industrial water supply. The water demand for the West Mitidja Irrigation
Scheme is scheduled to be met entirely from surface water resources. Total
gross water demand for the Scheme is estimated at 133 Mm3/annum, based on an
average net irrigation requirement at the plant of about 3,800 m3/ha and
efficiencies for conveyance between the reservoir and the project area, within
the project area and water use on the farm of 90X, 95% and 80%'
respectively (68% overall). Water demand for the Mitidja Scheme will be met
from the above mentione!d reservoirs and diversions as follows: flows from
Bou-Roumi (27 Mm3), harbil (20 Mm3) and Chiffa (52 Mm3) and partial
supply from Boukourdane reservoir (14 Mm3 out of a total yield of 40 Mm3)
and Djer (20 Mm3); see Chart C-1. Water demand is expected to be met for 8
out of 10 years and with less than 20X water shortage in 9 years out of 10.
3.04     Irrigation Development.  The total area to be developed under the
scheme is 27,500 ha (gross) in two phases as follows (IBRD Map 21125):
Table 3.1.: WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION SCHEME:
DEVELOPMENT PHASING
Area                             Development
Phase      (gross)  (net)    Irrigation            Irrigation &        Surface
Surface and Sub-   Surface Drainage   Drainage
surface Drainage                        Only
I           9,250    8,000            600                7,400               -
II         18,250   15,800            _                 14,000          1,800
27,500   23,800           600                21,400          1,800
3.05     Phase I is presently under implementation through Government
financing. It is subdivided in three sectors, South (2,300 ha), West
(2,900 ha) and East (2,800 ha). The internal irrigation network has been
designed as an underground pipe system. The diversion weir, located
downstream of Moustakbel dam, and two main canals taking off on the right and
left bank of the weir have been completed. Irrigation in sector South started
in the summer of 1988 but the sprinkler systems have not yet been piocured.
The sectors East and West are scheduled for completion by the end of 1989.
The implementation of the Phase II area is envisaged under the proposed
project, as well as the installation of the sprinkler systems in the Phase I
area.
1/ Decreased from 852 in the feasibility and project preparation reports.
1 1 X I



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Population. Climate and Soils
4.01     The total pnpulation in the Phase II area (18,250 ha gross) is
estimated at about 50,000 out of which about 202 are directly engaged in
agriculture; the unemployment rate is about 251. The area has a mediterranean
climate with an average annual rainfall of 600 to 700 m mostly falling during
the period October through February; evapo-transpiration reaches nearly 200 mm
in July making any cultivation in summer impossible without irrigation.
Average annual temperature is about 12°C with a minimum of -2'C and a
maximum of 45°C. Soils are generally of a silt clay texture. About half of
the soils in the area belong to classes 1. 2 and 3, and have no limitations
for irrigated agriculture; class 1 soils will be mostly devoted to fruit tree
plantations. The soils in classes 4 and 5 (about 7,000 ha) swell when wetted
and have then low infiltration rates; the class 6 soils, about 1,800 ha of
hydromorphic soils in the Halloula zone are not suitable for irrigation, but
have a good potential for production of forage crops.
B. Land Tenure, Land Use, and Yields
Land Tenure
4.02     At the end of 1987 nearly 952 of the project area was being
cultivated by DASs with an average size of about 300 ha. The private sector
consisted of 150 farms with an average size of 7 ha. As a result of the
dismantlement of the DASs (para 2.12), completed shortly before project
appraisal by the Bank, the land tenure situation is now completely different.
This dismantlement proceeded as follows. First, eligible beneficiaries,
mostly ex-DAS workers, were invited to freely constitute groups by mutual
affinity (EACs). Then the DAS land was allocated to these spontaneous groups
according to two major criteria: (i) estimated farm income, which is to
guarantee each beneficiary at least a threshold income level, and (ii)
permanent labor requirements , which are to be fully met by the beneficiaries,
who are to work full time on the farm. Under exceptional circumstances such
as for social cases and marginal land, land was allocated to a single
beneficiary to constitute an Individual Farm (EAI).^" The land remains
state land, to which beneficiaries are granted a peipetual usufruct right. In
the EACs, members have equal shares and the land cannot be further
sub-divided. In the project area six DASs have been reserved for seed
production and plant propagation or to be used as demonstration farms.
Because the dismantlement of the DASs has been implemented at a very fast
pace, some further adjustments in land tenure are to be expected within the
next few years. For 90% of the project area located in the Tipasa province,
the reform has resulted in the following land distribition:
1/ In the following the term EAC will encompass EAI as well.
I l IIc



- 11 -
Table 4.1: LAND TENURE IN THE PROJECT AREA BEFORE AND
AFTER DAS DISMANTLEMENT (TIPASA PROVINCE)
mumber      Numer of Total        Aver.
Type of       of           BOefW.  Area         go. of  Avg.   Avg.
Fare         farm n   .     t       .ba. I__  imu f          arasiban.
Befoer GASd diatimt
DASs           52      -      -    14800    -     -
After OAS dIsMnmtleent
CAts           20   7X       20      230   2X     1       11.5   11.S
EACs
0-50 ha      185  6ZS    1195    5400  41S    6.5    29         4.5
51-100 ha    81   27X    742    5310  40X       9       65      7
) 100 ha    -1   .5    JUl    ...ZM 14                 lA34   1L2
Total EACs    280  9ZX    2138    13070  98S    7.5    47         6
TOTAL EAC/EAIs  300  1C0%   2158    13300 100l    7       44      6
State Farms     6     2       -     1500    -     -      250      -
Total Project
Area         306     -       -    14800    -     -       -      -
Present Land Use and Yields
4.03     At present about 2,900 ha or 18X of the Project area is already
irrigated from tube wells using groundwater at a rate that is beyond the
sustainable yield of the aquifer; irrigation is mostly for fruit trees and
garden crops. Land use under the DAS was as follows:
Table 4.2: LAND USE IN THE PROJECT AREA UNDER DAS
Total Area            of which irrigated
cereals                4450 ha      272
fodder                 2980 ha      182              200 ha       12
garden crops            1460 ha       92             590 ha       4S
industrial crops        300 ha       21              200 ha       1S
wine grape              3650 ha      221
fruit trees            1900 ha      121             1900 ha      121
legumes                 440 ha       31
fallow                 1230 ha       81
Total                 16400 ha    1002              2890 ha      181
Cropping Intensity                  931
Il  Ilc



- 12 -
Since in most cases crops for the winter season had already been established
by the DASs, no substantial change in cropping pattern resulting from the
privatization of the land could yet be observed at the time of appraisal;
however, in their choices for summer crops and 1988/89 winter crops, EACs
already showed marked preferences for more profitable crops. Net returns per
hectare ranged in 1987 from about minus 3,650 DA/ha for wine grape to about
229,000 DA/ha for greenhouse tomatoes. Up-rooting of vineyards in the Project
area was planned by Government at a pace of about 500 ha/year. Vineyards
should thus have disappeared from the project area before project completion;
however, since EACs are now free to choose their cropping pattern, there may
be some replanting in the future.
4.04     At the time of the DASs, in spite of high financial prices for most
crops, inputs were used inefficiently and farming techniques were poor because
of (i) the lack of some farm machinery and equipment and input shortages, (ii)
bureaucratic delays in input distribution, (iii) the use of theoretical
technical norms poorly adapted to local conditions, and (iv) lack of
commitment from DAS workers and managers. As a result, average yields were
low as compared to the agronomic potential (see Table 7.02); however, some
farms, mostly private, achieved considerably higher than average yields.
According to observations made in the field during appraisal, it appears that
better farming techniques are already applied by the EACs. The major
constraint to intensification of agriculture in the project area is
availability of water; the aquifer used for irrigation is being already
overdrawn resulting in a continuing lowering of the water level, although the
quantities of water applied to the crops are far below crop needs,
particularly for citrus plantations.
C. Livestock
4.05     There are presently around 30 EACs and 40 other private farms with
cattle and/or sheep.  Most of these produce milk (between 2 and 120 cows per
farm). Farm sizes vary from around 7 up to 140 ha. Livestock production
units which existed on DASs have been assigned to one or more EACs on each of
the units. A limited number of EACs also have or will obtain cattle. Most
EACs and EAIs with dairy cattle will also fatten male animals and raise
replacement heifers. It appears likely that a number of EACs will adopt some
type of livestock production (dairy, cattle or sheep fattening) with the help
of BADR loans even before the irrigation system is installed; if proper
technical assistance is provided, this will expand further with irrigation
because of the profitability as well as the need for forage crops in a
rotation system with cereals to provide manure for cash crops. Some EACs
which have indicated a dislike for dairy production because of the high labor
requirements are more likely to opt for fattening or no livestock at all.
D. Agricultural Support Services
4.06     Although some of the concerned institutions are still weak as a
result of the restructuring of the sector now underway and the situation is
very much in flux at the moment, farm support services in the region around
Algiers, including the project area, are better than in most other parts of
the country. In addition, Government is considering various ways to improve
these services, in part with assist .ce from the Bank. Consequently, it can
be expected that the agricultural support services for the project will in
general be adequate when the project reaches its production phase.
I  Iilc



- 13 -
4.07     Inputs for the project area are currently supplied by numerous
specialized cooperatives and parastatals. Private sector involvement is
currently limited. The three major suppliers are the Agricultural Cooperative
Specialized in Inputs (CASSAP) (for seeds, fertilizers, herbicides,
pesticides), the Cooperative Specialized in Livestock Services (COOPSSEL) and
the Company for the Distribution and Maintenance for Agricultural Equipment
(EDIMA), a parastatal in charge of farm machinery distribution. The CASSAP
and COOPSSEL offices for the wilaya of Tipasa are located in Hadjout and Merad
respectively, four smaller CASSAP branches are also located in the Project
area (Ahmer El Ain, Merad, Tipasa, and Menaceur).  The EDIMA office for the
vilaya of Tipasa is located in Douadoua about 30 km to the east of the Project
area.  Not only do CASSAP, COOPSSEL, and EDIMA supply inputs but they also
provide services such as technical advice, pest and disease prevention, repair
etc. The specialized cooperatives result from the 1971 Agrarian Revolution
and the DAS were their formal members. However, since (i) the DASS were
subject to central planning; and (ii) they had to procure from Government
offices or state-owned enterprises, the cooperatives operated as parastatals.
After the dismantlement o' the DASs the EACs have become the formal members,
but, so far they have had very little active involvement in decision making.
Government recognizes this risk and is considering a reform of the specialized
cooperatives to make them more responsive to farmers' needs; it is also
examining how to enhance private sector involvement in input distribution.
4.08     So far the CASSAP has made good efforts to adjust to the new
situation, and input supply for crops is generally satisfactory. However,
EDIMA is still encountering difficulties to adjust and the major constraint
experienced by the EACs now is the lack of repair facilities and the scarcity
of new equipment and, more importantly, of spare parts.  This scarcity is also
partly due to the surge of demand from the EACs because of simultaneous and
more intensive equipment use. The establishment of an EDIMA branch in the
Project area would largely alleviate the problem of equipment repair (para
6.10). The distribution of farm machinery and supply of spare parts is
expected to improve in the short term by more efficient operation of the
public sector and in the longer term by increased involvement of the private
sector.
4.09     Livestock input supply (animal feeds and veterinary products) is
adequate for the purpose of the project. The input supplier, COOPSSEL, is
still a weak institution but with the National Animal Feed Institute's (ONAB)
backstopping there is ample supply of feeds (some local but mostly imported)
for ruminants.
AMicultural Credit
4.10     Agricultural credit supply is dominated by the Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development (BADR) created in 1982 from the National Bank of Algeria
to mobilize increased amounts of resources to finance the agricultural
sector. In the project area agricultural credit is handled by a regional
office at Blida and about 15 branch offices in Tipasa and Blida provinces; a
third of them will specifically handle credit to farms involved in the
Project. Before the 1986 reform, BADR mainly served as a channel for Treasury
funds to the DASs and other public sector agencies or enterprises, with little
I I tlc



- 14 -
analysis of financial profitability of borrowers since loans were implicitly
guaranteed by the Government. Lending to the private sector was limited. The
recent reforms in both the banking and agricultural sectors have profound
implications on BADR's operations and viability aud on the availability of
credit for the farmers. From now on BADR will be lending at its own risk to
private farmers and EACs. The Agricuitural Credit Project (para 2.21) will
assist Government in strengthening BADR to face this new challenge and
establish an appropriate framework to ensure BADR's long-term financial
viability and increase farmers' access to credit. In the project area BADR
has responded fast in meeting credit demands from the EACs for short, medium
and long term credit, including credit to finance the purchase of the DASs
assets, which were taken over by the EACs.
Extension and Research
4.11     To date different extension services were provided for private farms
and DASs. Private farmers have been served by technician level staff in the
districts whose time was largely taken up by administrative tasks and without
transport or funds for extension. The DASs have been served by higher level
staff grouped in Agricultural Development Services (SDAs) which have been
dissolved with the reform of the DASs. The large research network includes a
National Institute for Agronomic Research which is responsible for basic
research and coordination of programs in nine technical institutes.
4.12     A reorganization of the extension and research structure is under
review by Government. This reorganization aims to develop an effective
research base focussing on priority programs and to strengthen agricultural
extension services to assist both the existing private farms and the new
EACs. The proposed Agriculture Research and Extension Project would support
Government action by testing the development of an effective extension system
in several areas, including the Cheliff Irrigation Project and WMIP areas; it
is planned to be appraised mid-1989. Improved extension services are thus
expected to be in place in the project area when irrigation water becomes
available to the farmers in 1992.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.01     The primary objective of the project would be to complete an existing
irrigation scheme and thereby expand the area under large-scale irrigation by
14,000 ha. The project would support the newly created groups of private
farmers (EACs) with on-farm irrigation development and services. It would
also strengthen local and national irrigation institutions, helping them
undertake project surveys, design and implementation. The project aims to
expand policy and institutional changes with respect to O&M and cost recovery
pioneered in the Cheliff Irrigation Project. The project would also address
environmental issues with respect to irrigation development in an area
situated above an aquifer, which will be primarily used for drinking water
supply.
11 Ilc



- 15 -
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.02     The agricultural reform program underway in Algeria needs both
financial support and support for institutional changes. Bank support to the
agricultural sector is sharply focused and responds to the two sources likely
to make the most significant impact on growth, which are increasing yields and
developing irrigation. Accordingly, Bank support is tailored to assist
Government to formulate an appropriate policy framework, strengthen support
institutions (credit to private farmers, extension and research and input
distribution), and to rehabilitate and complete existing irrigation schemes.
The project is of high priority. It completes an irrigation scheme with
substantial investments already made in dams and tunnels. The scheme is
located near Algiers and therefore has the potential to provide much needed
fresh fruits and vegetables to the capital city. It would also help develop a
methodology for adjusting the farm boundaries of the newly formed groups of
private farmers so that they coincide with the irrigation boundaries. The
experience gained from the proposed project can be replicated in other
irrigation areas in Algeria. Furthermore, the project provides a vehicle for
the Bank to become substantially involved in environmental issues associated
with irrigation development and contribute to their resolution; the project
includes a strong environmental component.
C. Main Project Features
5.03     The main components of the Project are:
(a) Water Resources Development involving construction of (i) the
Boukourdane pipeline, and; (ii) the Djer diversion;
(b) Irrigation, Drainage and Road Development on 14,000 ha (net) and
surface drainage and roads only on 1,800 ha (net);
(c) On-farm development involving installation of on-farm irrigation
equipment on 22,000 ha in Phases I and II and agricultural
development in Phase II (15,800);
(d) Institutional development and support to strengthen the Project
Unit (PU) of the National Irrigation and Drainage Authority
(AGID), the Regional Irrigation Authority for Mitidja (OPIM), the
National Agency for Water Resources (ANRH) and the NAtional
Institute for Plant Protection (INPV) to prepare and implement a
fertilizer and pest management plan;
D. Detailed Features
5.04     Water Resources Development.  The Project would provide for the
construction of (i) the Boukourdane pipeline, and; (ii) the Djer diversion.
The 13 km Boukourdane pipeline with maximum diameter of 1.6m and 4 m /s
capacity, combines the functions of both supplying Boukourdane reservoir with
supplementary water from the Nador river and withdrawing water from the
reservoir for irrigation in Sector C of WMIP and other proposed irrigation
schemes, and local water supply projects. The Djer diversion would convey
I11 Ic



- 16 -
water from the Djer river into Moustakbel reservoir by means of a diversion
weir, a pumping station of about 7,000 kW installed capacity and lift of about
140m, and a 3km long tunnel, 2,5m in diameter, of 3 m3/s capacity.
5.05     Irrigation, Drainage and Roads Development.  This would involve the
construction of two main conveyors of prestressed concrete pipes (each about
15 km) and with internal diameters from 800 - 1,800 mm, and 281 km of lateral
pipelines up to regulating valves at the heads of the irrigation units. The
lateral pipelines would be of prestressed concrete pipes for diameters above
600 - and of dsbestos cement (AC) for smaller diameters. The project works
also include 334km of main distribution lines of AC within the irrigation
units, including hydrants ready for connection to sprinkler or drip systems.
Sectors FG, E and D (totalling 7,026 ha net) would benefit from pressure at
the hydrants by gravity while the Sectors A, B and C (totalling 6,956 ha net)
would be pressurized through three pumping stations with elevated reservoirs,
with lifts of 39m, 69m and 78m respectively, and total installed capacity of
4,300 kW. The Halloula area (1,800 ha net) would not be irrigated due to its
very heavy soils and the lack of water. The entire WMIP area would be
provided with a surface drainage system, initially requiring about 220km of
open secondary drains and remodelling of 40km of natural drainage channels.
The area would also be provided with about 200 km of gravel roads.
5.06     On-farm development.  Involving (i) irrigation development through
the supply and installation of mobile sprinkler or drip systems for 22,000 ha:
8,000 ha in Phase I and 14,000 ha in Phase II and; (ii) agricultural
development in Phase II, involving establishment of citrus plantations and
other orchards on about 1,200 ha, greenhouses for early vegetables, provision
of supplementary equipment for agricultural operations, pickup trucks for
transportation of produce, and construction of buildings and establishment of
windbreaks.
5.07     Institutional Development and Support.  This component would
strengthen the Project Unit of the AGID, tne OPIM, the ANRH and the INPV to
undertake their respective responsibilities. These objectives would be
achieved through the provision of technical services (in total about 450
man-months) and training, supply of necessary equipment and vehicles, and
construction of office space and training facilities. Equipment and vehicles
to be procured for the project are detailed in Annex 3. The details of the
technical services and training anticipated are as follows (for details see
Annexes 6 and 7):
(i)   The PU would recruit a consulting firm to assist with
construction supervision; (about 330 man-months); in addition
about 10 man-months of training through study tours and formal
training is provided in contract management and administration;
(ii) the OPIM would utilize the services of a consulting firm (about
30 man-months) to assist with the setting up of a unit for the
sale and distribution of sprinkler equipment, after sales
services and training of staff, including training to advise
farmers in selection of irrigation equipment and water
management. An additional 20 man-monthE have been budgeted to
assist with the establishment of O&M prccedures, finance and
administration;
111 c



- 17 -
(iii) the ANRH would be supported through consultants (18 man-
months), training courses and study tours to enhance its
capability to undertake drainage investigations and monitor
water quality, and;
(iv) the INPV would recruit a consulting firm (about 40 man-months)
te assist with the preparation and implementation of a
fertilizer and pest management plan (para 5.20).
E. Status of Project Prevaration
5.08     Detailed designs and draft bidding documents for all irrigation, main
drainage and road networks are available. Prequalification of civil works
contractors is on-going. Some modifications with respect to irrigation pipe
lay-outs will be required as a result of the recent dismantlement of DASs and
creation of EACs for reason that the boundaries of the irrigation units as
designed do not match the EAC boundaries. The irrigation system will
therefore be redesigned for the new EAC boundaries. Each EAC will be served
by one hydrant in general, but a hydrant will never serve more than one EAC.
The density of the road system would also be reduced; with the objective of
one project road and drain for each EAC. These changes would be introduced
during project implementation. The need for a sub-surface drainage system or
more intensive surface d-ainage system (open tertiary and quaternary drains)
in the area with swelling soils (para 4.01) still needs to be investigated
although the latter would probably suffice. Detailed designs and bidding
documents are available for the Djer diversion and are under preparation for
the Boukourdane pijpeline.
F. Implementation Schedule
5.09     The growing demands for water during the project implementation
period requires the timely implementation of the Boukourdane pipeline and Djer
diversion (Chart C-1). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
Government will implement the Boukourdane pipeline by December 31, 1993 and
the Djer diversion by June 30, 1995. These structures would not be financed
by the Bank (para 5.12).
5.10     It is anticipated that the contracts for the irrigation, main
drainage and road systems will be signed around October 1989 (Chart C-2) and
that the works will be completed by June 1995. The proper sequence of work
will be to complete for a particular area first the main drainage and roads
systems and thereafter the irrigation pipe systems. A second phase of the
drainage system (either a subsurface system or a more intensive open surface
system) may be implemented following the completion of further drainage
investigations (para 5.08). Procurement of sprinkler systems by OPIM for sale
to the farmers will be closely coordinated with the expected completion dates
of the irrigation units. The Government has confirmed its aim of achieving
key project activities according to an Action Plan for Project Implementation
as shown in Annex 5.
I    IIlc



- 18 -
G. Cost Estimates
5.11     Cost estimates for the Project are based on the quantities of work
computed or analysis of activities to be undertaken for each component. The
unit costs are largely based on costs actually experienced for the Phase I
area adjusted to December 1988 price levels. Physical contingencies ranging
from 10 - 202 have been included depending on the level of design or
complexity. Price contingencies for both foreign and local costs have been
added based on the expected increases in world prices of 4 X throughout.
Price contingencies have been calculated on the assumption that differences
between domestic and international inflation rates would be offset by exchange
rate adjustments. The cost estimates are summarized below and presented in
detail in Annexes l and 2. These costs include US$ 75.8 M equivalent in taxes
and duties.
Table 5.1.: PROJECT COST SUMMARY1'
Component            Local   Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign Total %Foreign VTotal
Costs   Costs    Costs    Costs   Costs  Costs Exchange  Base
-------DA Million -------    ------US$Million------
Water Rescur-es Development  189 7    200.8   390.5   29.2   30.9   60.1    S1    18
Irrigation Oevelopment    538.4   647.8  1,186.3   82.8   99.7  182.5    55       55
On-farm Development       255.8    137.5   393.3   39.4  21.1  60.5    35         18
Institutional Development    112.6    60.1    172.7   17.3    9.2   26.6    35     8
Environmental Protection    1.6     4.4      6.0    0 3    0 7    0.9    73 U
TOTAL RASE COSTS     1.098.1  1,050.7  2,148.8  168.9  161.6  330.6    49      100
Physical Contingencies    119.2    125.4   244.7   18.3   19.3   37.6    S1       11
Price Contingencies       196.9    177.9    374I 8   30.3   27 4   57.4    47     17
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS   1,414.3  1,354.1  2,768.4  217.6  208.3  425.9    49    129
A/ Minor discrepancies in totals due to rounding
H. Project Fincng
5.12     The agreed project financing plan is shown in Table 5.2 below.  A
Bank loan of US$110 M is proposed to be made to the Government of Algeria to
finance the components shown in the table while the balance of proposed costs
would be financed by local credit institutions, the beneficiaries and through
the Government investment budget. Bank financing would cover an estimated 26
X of total project cost or 31 X of project costs net of taxes and would mainly
be disbursed for the irrigation infrastructure of the area under pumping
(about 7,000 ha), on-farm irrigation development in Phases I and II of WMIP
and agriculture development in Phase II. Government has not requested the
Sank to finance either the Djer diversion or Boukourdane pipeline as (i)
Government wishes to avoid paying commitment charges over a number of years,
Ill Ic



- 19 -
and (ii) more than 70 S of the flow through the Boukourdane pipeline would be
for potable water supply a9nd other irrigation schemes (para 5.04) which are
still in an early stage or preparation so that this component could not be
appraised in detail. Not considering the costs for these two project
elements, the Bank would finance 67 X of the foreign exchange cost or 38 2 of
total costs net of taxes. The European Investment Bank (EIB) has expressed
its interest in financing part of the irrigation infrastructure and
discussions on this are underway with the Government. Should this additional
external financing be arranged, direct Government financing would be
correspondingly reduced from the amounts indicated in Table 5.2 below:
Table 5.2.: FINANCING PLAN
(in US$M)
Project Element        IBRO  Local  Senefi   Govern   Total
Credit ciaries   ment   Costs
1. Boukourdane Pipeline                           33.0    3;.J
2. Ojer Diversion                                 48.2    48.2
3. Drainage & Roads                               37.7    37.7
4. Irrigation Infrastructure
(a) Area under gravity                           71.5    71.S
(b) Area under pumping &
main conveyors        79.2                   25.2   104.4
(c) Equipment for pumping    7.5                 2.4      9.9
S. On-farm Development
(a) Irrigation Equipment    12.2   3.7    8.0            23.9
(b) Agriculture
development''               36.8   18.5               55.3
(i. Buildings               4.3                     1.4     5.7
7. miscellaneous . Equipment   1.7                 2.8      4.5
& materials
S. Technical Assistance     5.1                    1.7      6.8
and Training
9. Eng. Adm. & Supervis;on  -      -        -
Total       110.u  40.5   26.5    248.9   425.9
1/ Plantations, windbreaks, greenhouses, equipment, buildings etc.
1. Procurement
5.13     Procurement of Bank financed components would be carried out in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans dated
May 1985.  The Bank-financed consultants wouiti U. -         r   : ttnrdinf  to the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Bank-financed contracts and
procurement arrangements are included in the following table, which provides a
procurement plan for all WMIP elements (figures include physical and price
contingencies).
Il . ,, 



- 20 -
Table 3.3.: PROCUREMENT PLAN
(in US$M)A'
Project Element       TCB   Intern.   LCB   Local    Other   Total
Shopping       Shopping          Costs
I. Boukourdane Pipeline    48.2                                   48.2
2. Djer Oiversion          33.0                                   33.o
3. Orainage & Roads        37.7                                   37.7
4. Irrigation Infrastructure
(a) Area under gravity   71.5                                   71 .S
(b) Area under pumping &
main conveyors       104.4                                  104.4
(79.2]                                (79.21
(c) Equipment for pumping    9.9                                 9.9
(7.S]                                  (7.S]
S. On-farm Development
(a) Irrigation Equipment    23.9                                23.9
(12.2]                                 (12.21
(b) Agriculture                                          55.3   55.3
Development '
6. Buildings                                5.7                    5.7
[4.3]                  C4.3]
7. Miscellaneous Equipment
& Materials               1.1    I.,    1.8      05             4.5
C0.5]   (0.8]          [0.4]          [1.7]
8. Consultants & Training                                   6.8    6.8
[5.11  (5.1]
9. Eng. Adn. & Supervision  _2_             -              25 Gi   2S0
Total        329.7     1.1    7.5    0.S    87.1  425.9
C 99.4]   [0.81   [4.3]   (0.4]   [S.1] [110.0]
1/ Plantations. windbreaks. greenhouses. equipment, buildings etc.
Note: Figures in brackets are the respectiv amounts financed by the Bank
The main Bank-financed contracts will be: (i) one single civil works contract
for the 7,026 ha under pumping, (ii) one contract for the supply and
iistallation of equipment for the pumping stations, (iii) a number of supply
contracts for on-farm irrigation equipment, and (iv) one or more contracts for
the construction of buildings. The civil works contractors for the irrigation
infrastructure will be prequalified.
5.14     Contracts for civil works estimated tc cost US$2,000,000 equivalent
or more and contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost US$300,000
equivalent or more will be awarded through international competitive bidding
(ICB). Qualified domestic manufacturers of equipment will receive preference
in bid evaluation of 15S or the prevailing import duty, whichever is less.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than US$2,000,000 equivalent,
up to an aggregate of US$lo,000,000, will be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB). Contracts for office and survey equipment
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent and up to an aggregate of
US$1,000,000 will be purchased through local shopping. Contracts for
equipment operation and maintenance and vehicles estimated to cost less than
US$300,000 equivalent and up to an aggregate of US$2,000,000 will be purchased
under international shopping procedures. Although Algerian ICB and LCB
procedures are generally acceptable to the Bank, there are a few procedures
which are inconsistent with Bank procurement policy and there are others which
Illlc



- 21 -
could be improved to insure better competition. The required revisions in
procurement procedures which had already been agreed upon for the Cheliff
Irrigation Project (Ln 2809-AL) were reconfirmed for the proposed Project.
5.15     Contract review.  All bidding documents and awards of contracts for
civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2,000,000 or more and for
vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more
will require the Bank's prior approval. This prior approval will also be
needed for the bidding documents and awards of all contracts regarding
radio-communication and computer equipment.
J. Disbursement
5.16     The proposed loan of US$110 M would be disbursed as follows:
Table 5.4.: WITHDRAWAL OF THE PROCEEDS OF IHE LOAN
Loan Allocation   2 of Expenditures
Category                             (US$ million)       to be Financed
1. Civil works for irrigation infra-              80.0              75X
structure serving the pumped area
and main conveyors and buildings
2. Equipment & Materials                          19.0        100X of foreign
expenditures and of
local expenditures
ex-factory, and 752
of local expenditures
for imported items
procured locally
3. Technical Services & TLaining                   5.0             1002
4. Unallocated                                     6.0
Total                          110.0
Except for the importation of on-farm irrigation equipment there would be no
disbursemer.t under the Bank loan for on-farm development.
5.17     Disbursements for the above items will be made after receipt by the
Bank of full documentation except for contracts for civil works valued below
US$ 200,000 and contracts for vehicles and equipment valued below US$ 50,000
for which disbursements would be against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
certified by the executing agency, AGID. AGID will retain the supporting
documentation and make it available for review by the Bank during
supervision. No reimbursement applications for less than US$ 100,000 will be
accepted. The annual asudits of the project accounts would include a separate
opinion on the disbursements made under the SOE procedure.
I Illc



- 22 -
5.18     In order to expedite project execution, a Special Account will be
opened at the Central Bank of Algeria (or any commercial bank acceptable to
the Bank) with an authorized allocation of up to US$10.0 M. The documentation
of replenishment requests will follow the same procedures as in para 5.17. In
addition, monthly bank statements of the Special Account will accompany
replenishment requests.
5.19     An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 4.  The
Bank's historical disbursement profiles for Algeria were considered in the
preparation of this schedule. It is anticipated that the loan will be
disbursed in six and one half years. This compares to a 92X level of
disbursements in the historical profile and appears justified as the Project
is a continuation of the ongoing Phase I, the organization at site already
exists and it should be possible to commence major construction contracts in
mid 1989. The proposed closing date of the loan is June 30, 1996.
K. Environmental Impact
5.20     The Mitidja plain is underlain by a large aquifer which is a main
source for drinking water supply, esp cially for the capital Algiers.
Industrial pollution near Algiers forms the main threat to the aquifer.
However, the seepage of rainwater and excess irrigation water from the farm
lands could also cause some toxic substances (pesticides and nitrates from
fertilizer) to enter the aquifer. The careful application of fertilizer and
water, and the selection of the proper types of insecticides would reduce the
danger of pollution. Increased agricultural production in the project area
would also promote Che development of agro-industries which could be a source
of future pollution. Treatment of waste water, now being freely discharged in
natural drainage channels will become a necessity in future. In order to
minimize the danger of groundwater contamination in the West Mitidja
Irrigation Scheme area, assurances have been obtained from Government during
negotiations that it would (i) prepare, in consultation with the Bank, a
comprehensive fertilizer and pest management plan for the area by June 30,
1992, and implement such plan by June 30, 1994; (ii) monitor the quality of
the groundwater and quantity and quality of the waste water discharged in the
area; (iii) undertake a base line enviromnent pollution survey for the area by
December 31, 1992, and; (iv) in case pollutants are found in the West Mitidja
aquifer implement, in consultation with the Bank, an action program to address
the problem by December 31, 1993. It is considered that with the
implementation of the above outlined measures the effects of the project on
the Mitidja aquifer would be minimal. It is also expected that the principles
of the fertilizer and pest management plan would be app'icable to the whole
Mitidja plain and much of the area under irrigation elsewhere in Algeria.
5.21     The surface drainage system to be constructed in the project area
would have a positive impact as it would eliminate the stagnation of water in
the fields after heavy rainfall.
5.22     After completion of the Project, groundwater pumping for irrigation
(presently on about 2,900 ha; para 4.03) should be discouraged in order to
reduce the present decline of the water table in the aquifer and preserve this
resource for potable water. An assurance has been obtained from Government
that it will, in consultation with the Bank, determine, by December 31, 1990,
,I Ilc



- 23 -
and subsequently implement, measures to minimize the use of groundwater for
irrigation in those parts of the project area where the irrigation facilities
are completed. The Algerian Water Law (Code des Eaux) is sufficiently
comprehensive to allow Government to consider a number of options to achieve
this objective.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
6.01     The National Irrigation and Drainage Authority (AGID) will have prime
responsibility for the execution of the project. In addition to the execution
of the irrigation infrastructure it will also maintain project accounts,
prepare progress reports, undertake procurement, recruit consultants and
monitor and coordinate the activities of the other agencies involved in
project implementation such as: (i) the National Agency for Dam Construction
(ADB); (ii) concerned agencies in the Ministry of Agriculture (MA); (iii) the
Regional Irrigation Authority for Mitidja (OPIM); (iv) the National Agency for
Water Resources (ANRH); (v) the Nationai Institute for Plant Protection
(INPV), and; (vi) the agricultural credit institutions. The Project Unit (PU)
of AGID will be responsible for construction activities at the site.
6.02     Project Coordination.  Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that Government will ensure the necessary coordination (i) on the
national level between MH and MA, including AGID, ANRH and INPV. For this
purpose MH will. on request of AGID, call meetings as necesary, but at least
twice a year to review project progress and agree on specific actions to
resolve project implementation problems; (ii) on the local level between all
concerned agencies, including the OPIM and the Project Unit. AGID will call
meetings at regular intervals, but at least quarterly.
B. Implementation of Pro3ect Infrastructure
6.03     Implementation of the Dier diversion and Boukourdane pipeline will be
the responsibility *f the ANB, a semi-autonomous organization which has
general responsibility for dam construction in the country. Its construction
contracts are normally awarded through ICB on the basis of designs prepared by
international consulting firms.
6.04     Implementation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure will be the
responsibility of AGID, also a semi-autonomous agency, created in January 1988
to accelerate the design and construction of irrigation works. Construction
supervision at the site will be the responsibility of the PU at El Affroun.
The requirements for Algerian technical staff in the PU has been estimated as
shown below. Their availability has been confirmed at loan negotiations.
II lic



- 24 -
Table 6.1: PROJECT UNIT STAFFING
1989   1990   1991   1992   19"3   1994
Chief Engineer                   1      1      1       1      1       1
Surveyors                       3       3      3       2      2      1
Civil Engineers                 6       6      6       6      4      1
Mech. Engineers                 -       1      1       1      1      _
Total Engineers           11      11     11     10       8      3
Technicians                    15      26     33      30     17      8
6.05     In recent years -hronic shortages have been experienced in the
availability of locally manufactured concrete pipes. However, the MH has
indicated that by mid 1989 there should be no problem with the supply of pipes
as the Government owned and operated SPIK factory at Rouiba which was built
under the Algiers Water Supply Project (Loan 2461-AL) should then have
sufficient spare capacity to provide all the pipes required for the Project.
In addition, the bidding documents will allow the use of alternative types of
pipes in case importation might become necessary.
6.06     The soils and drainage investigations required to finalize the design
of the drainage facilities required for the project (para 5.08), will be the
responsibility of the ANRE (Annex 6).
C. On-Farm Development
6.07     This will be the responsibility of the EACs with the assistance of
the agriculture credit institutions, the various agricultural support services
under MA (para 4.06-4.12) and the OPIM (para 6.09).
Auicultural Credit
6.08     Agricultural credit to EACs and private farmers for sprinkler or drip
irrigation systems, farm equipment, as well as for seasonal inputs and other
needs will be provided by the agriculture credit institutions and, in the case
of BADR (para 4.10), under the terms and conditions of the Agricultural Credit
Project (Ln 3010-AL).
Supdy and distribution of sprinkler equipment
6.09     Any necessary importation of either complete systems or their parts
will be undertaken by AGID. The OPIM has been given the responsibility for
the sale of the sprinkler and drip irrigation equipment to the EACs. The
storage, sale and provision of after sales services of on-farm irrigation
equipment is a new activity for OPIM. A special sub-unit would be set up in
OPIM for this purpose. An other sub-unit would advise the farmers on the
selection of the fhost appropriate equipment and on on-farm water management;
it will also organize for the benefit of the farmers demonstrations of the
I I I Ic



- 25 -
various types of available equipment. OPIM will be assisted by consultants in
these tasks; the consultants will also assist with the drawing up of
appropriate technical specifications for the equipment. The sale of
irrigation equipment is considered to be a temporary activity for OPIM which
will be phased out when the private sector will develop.
D. Agricultural Development
6.10     Agricultural support services are the responsibility of MA and have
been described in paras 4.06-4.12 and are expected to be generally adequate
for the purposes of the Project. One support activity which has been
identified as needing specific strengthening is mechanization (para 4.08).
However, Government intends to help establish repair and maintenance services
in the project area. This was confirmed during negotiations.
E. Operation and Maintennce
6.11     Responsibility for O&M of the irrigation infrastructure rests with
the OPIM, since 1985 a semi-autonomous organization with headquarters in
Meftah. OPIM is also responsible for cost recovery, giving advice to EACs in
selection of on-farm irrigation equipment and proper on-farm water management
(para 6.09). The OPIM is also in charge of the 50 year old 18,000 ha Hamiz
project in the eastern part of the Mitidja plain. OPIM's organization will
need considerable strengthening to manage also the Mitidja project. A
detailed study for the organization and management of the OPI for the Cheliff
Irrigation Project (Ln 2809-AL) will be completed in June, 1989. The general
findings of the study will also be applicable for OPIM. Assurances have been
obtained from Government during negotiations that it will submit to the Bank
detailed proposals, for review and comment, for the organizational structure
of OPIM by December 31, 1991 and implement these proposals by December 31,
1992, including the establishment of an O&M unit in the project area with
sub-units for (i) the storage, sale and provision of after sales services for
on-farm irrigation equipment, (ii) advising farmers on the selection of the
most appropriate equipment and on-farm water management, and (iii) the
monitoring of cropping patterns and efficiency of water use on the farm.
6.12     Assurances were obtained during negotiations that AGID will (i)
prepare an O&M manual for the project and send a preliminary version to the
Bank for review by December 31, 1991, and; (ii) finalize the manual by June
30, 1995. The manual will include the arrangements between AGID and ANB to
ensure the timely releases of irrigation water for the project, as well as
details of technical, organizational and administrative procedures for O&M.
6.13     Dam Safety.  An assurance has also been obtained that Government will
have the Boukourdane and Moustakbel (Bou Roumi) dams periodically inspected by
experts, acceptable to the Bank, to review the safety of the dams.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.14     In addition to the monitoring carried out by OPIM (para 6.11), the PU
will monitor construction progress and costs and the provincial authorities
will monitor crop production and production costs and benefits. The AGID will
I1 Ilc



- 26 -
ensure that quarterly progress reports are prepared, as well as a project
completion report within six months of the loan closing date.
G. Accounts and audits
6.15     AGID will be responsible for maintaining the project account.  This
project account, along with the statements of expenditure sent to the Bank for
disbursement and the revolving fund account will be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report together with a
certified copy of the account will be submitted to the Bank not later than
nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. General
7.01     The direct quantifiable project benefits will come from increased
agricultural production, as the introduction of irrigation will induce a shift
from rainfed crops to higher value fruits, vegetables, and forage crops and
increase water availability for crops already irrigated from ground water;
this will result in a higher cropping intensity and higher yields. Since milk
production was the most common livestock enterprise on the DASs and private
farms, project benefits from livestock have been calculated on the basis of
dairy farms although it is probable that some farms will fatten cattle or
sheep instead of having a dairy herd. It is considered that the dairy farms
serve as a reasonable proxy for all livestock enterprises for the purpose of
estimating the economic rate of return. The increased agricultural production
will improve substantially farmers' incomes and create employment
opportunities in the project area as permanent labor requirements will
increase by about 601. Reduced imports of livestock products, and, to some
extent, wheat, potatoes, and processed tomato will induce some savings in
foreign exchange estimated at about DA 76 'lillion per year.
7.02     In addition, secondary benefits would accrue, including (i) increased
employment opportunities and higher incomes to the surrounding population from
activities associated with the construction, operation and maintenance of the
works and with the marketing, processing and transport of the incremental
production, (ii) the strengthening of national institutions in survey, design,
construction, project monitoring and project operation, (iii) the development
of a fertilizer and pest management plan, the findings of which would also be
applicable to areas outside the project area, and (iv) an increased recharge
of the Mitidja reservoir as a result of increased irrigation. These secondary
benefits have neither been quantified nor taken into account in the economic
analysis.
B. Land Use, Yields and Production
Land Use
7.02     Detailed cropping patterns are presented in Annex 8 for four
situations (existing, before project, future without project and future with
project) and summarized in the table below for the existing, without project
and with project situations. At present, about 80% of the project area is



- 27 -
under rainfed conditions (para 4.03) and the cropping pattern reflects this
situation with about 501 of the area used for cereals and fodder cultivation,
251 for vegetables and fruit, and the remaining 252 for vineyards. Because of
the fundamental changes brought about by the dismantlement of the DASs, changes
Table: 7.01.: LAND USE EVOLUTION FROM BEFORE TO WITHOUT
AND WITH PROJECT SITUATIONS
Before Project             Full Development
Existing Situation   Without Project  With Project
1987a"            1993-on          1997-on
(ha)    2           (ha)    1         (ha)    a
Wheat                  4450   27X          4420   27%        3065    191
Corn                    -       -           -      -         2060    131
Forage Crops           2980   181          3530   221        4515    281
Garden Crops           1460    91          3295   201        5680    351
Indastrial Tomatoes    290    21            355    21         605     41
Wine Grape             3650   22%          1700   101          -       -
Fruit Trees            1900   121          1890   121        2875    '81
Legumes                 440    -            -      -           -       -
Total cropped area   15170   921          15190   931       18850   1151
Fallow                 1230    81          1210    71          -       -
Total area            16400  1001         16400  1001       16400   1001
Cropping intensity             931                931               1151
a/  1987: Estimated from Bourkika and Hadjout SDA data.
in land use between the existing situation and the before project situation
are expected as EACs turn to the most profitable crops.  In the absence of
irrigation, however, the cropping intensity would remain much the same. The
evolution foreseen from the before project to the future without project
situation is a continuation of these changes which would include: (i) gradual
uprooting of vineyards with low productivity; (ii) expansion of garden crops,
particularly potatoes, and forage crops; and (iii) stagnation of areas planted
with fruit trees. Under the project about 351 of total area would be devoted
to garden crops, 41 to industrial tomatoes, and 181 to fruit trees, including
new plantations. The remaining area would be cropped with wheat (191), corn
(13X) and forage crops (281) to sustain the increased livestock production
planned under the project. Cropping intensity would increase by 241 from 931
to 1151. The cropping intensity cannot be increased further because of
limitations in water availability.
I  IIle



- 28 -
Yields
7.03     Yields for the future with and without project situations are
presented in Table 7.02 below and in detail in Annex 9; yields indicated for
Table 7.02.: YIELDS WITH AND WITHOUT PRO.ECT AT
FULL DEVELOPMENT FOR SELECTED CROPS
Without         With       X increase
Project         Project
(mt/ha)
Citrus                       10              20            100l
Tomatoes open field          20              25             251
green house        60              80             30S
industrial         10              25            150S
Potatoes                     10              25            150S
Zucchinis                     8              14             75X
Wheat                         1.5             4            1701
('000 fu/ha)
Berseem                       2.5             6            1401
Vetch Oat                     1.5             3            1001
the without project situation are average actual yields in the project
area, except for fruit crops, whose yields are expected to decline
because of decreasing water availability with the gradual depletion of
the ground water resource1'. Under the future with project situation
substantial yield improvements are expected for crops which were rainfed
but will now be irrigated (potatoes, wheat, berseem, industrial
tomatoes); for crops already irrigated, yields are assumed to increase by
an average of about 501 as a result of better farming operations and
water management.   Yield increases for annual crops are expected to be
achieved gradually over five years from the start of irrigation on the
farm, to allow time for the farmer to master the new technology. For new
fruit plantations full development is expected to be reached ten years
after establishment. Furthermore, after water is made available from the
irrigation network, farmers are assumed to irrigate the entire farm after
three years.
Production
7.04     Because the introduction of irrigation water in the project area
is scheduled to take place over 4 years and production increases will
develop gradually, particularly for fruit trees and livestock, full
production from the project would not occur until the year 2006 (full
production for annual crops is reached by the year 1999). The summary
table 7.03 below compares estimated production from the project area
under the existing 1987 situation, and the future with project situation
at full development. For details see Annex 10.
1/ Yield increases between the without project situation and present
situation have been neglected as they would be minor compared to the
expected yield increases with irrigation under the project.



- 29 -
7.05     The main changes anticipated are (i) large increases in garden
crops, industrial crops, and livestock production, (ii) a moderate
increase in citrus production, (iii) a slight increase in wheat
production; and (iv) a complete elimination of vineyard production.
Expected increases in production are suzmariied below.
Table 7.03.: INCREASES IN ANNUA.. PPODUCTION FROM THE PROJECT AREA
With
Existing   Proj. at   Increase   Increase as S
Situation  full dev.    with/      of national
1987     2006 - on  existing  1987 production
(1)       (2)          (3)          (4)
Wheat                 mt         6,750      11,225       4,475        + 12
Corn                  mt            -       11,330      11,330        n.a.
Garden Crops a/       mt        15,400    126,355    110,955          + 42
Industrial Tomatoes  mt          6,360      18,120     11,760         + 41
Wine Grape            mt        14,600        -      - 14,600         - 21
Fruit Trees  b/       mt        18,220      49,180      30,960        + 61
Forage Crops          OOOfu'     4,500      21,070      16,570        + 21
Milk                  0001       2,600      15,670      13,070        + 12
Beef                  mt            l53      1,375       1,185        + 21
_a  Garden crops:  potatoes, cauliflower, zucchini, tomatoes, watermelon.
b/ Fruit trees: citrus and apple, mostly citrus.
ci  fu: forage unit.
As a proportion of total annual national production in 1987 the increased
quantities produced under the project for crop agfregates are small, on
average 2-4S with a maximum of 61 for fruit trees-/.
7.06     At full development the value of annual production in the "vith"
project situation would be about DA 806 million in 1987 financial prices,
compared to about DA 240 million in the "without" project situation, of which
DA 684 million (851) in crop production, and DA 122 million (151) in animal
production. As indicated in table 7.04 below, garden crops contribute more
than half of total production value, fruit trees contribute slightly less than
251, and other products from 1 to 81.
1/  In the discussion that follows, all references comparing actual levels of
production purchases or consumption of crops to the "increased" production
from the project refers to levels of production over and above current
production levels. This is in contrast to "incremental" production, which
refers to levels of production over and above future levels without the
project. Increased production is relevant for establishing the markets'
ability to absorb the increased production while incremental production is
the relevant measure for the economic value of the project.
Ill Ic



- 30 -
Table: 7.04: GROSS VALUE OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
FROM THE PROJECT AREA AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
IN 1987 PRICES
(DA Millions)
Without Project             With Project
Value        X              Value        S
Wheat                   17.4       7S                 30.3    41
Corn                     -          -                 26.0    31
Garden Crops           116.9      501                415.9   51S
Industrial Tomatoes    10.7        4S                 27.2    31
Fruit Trees             60.4      25S                182.5   23S
Forage                   4.0       21                  2.3    0X
Milk                    10.3       41                 62.5    8S
Beef                     8.3       31                 53.6    71
Mutton                   2.0       11                  5.2    1S
Wine Grape               9.3       4S                   -     -
Total               239.3    1001                 805.4  1001
C. Marketing and Prices
7.07     The agricultural price and marketing system has been gradually
deregulated since 1981. As a result, it now entails strategic crops or
regulated crops, whose prices ate fixed by decree every year, and
non-regulated products, whose prices are free. For the latter, the existence
of official marketing or collecting agencies still allows for some Government
intervention, most often to provide floor prices. Regulated crops include
cereals and "industrial crops" while fruits, garden crops, forage crops and
livestock products are non-regulated products.1'
Regulated CroPs
7.08     Regulated crops are normally sold at administered prices to
specialized cooperatives or parastatils: wheat is sold to the Cooperative for
the Collection of Cereals and Pulses (CCLS). CCLS has been to date a
responsive buyer, paying promptly and storing the wheats properly. The
increase in wheat production should pose no problems as it will only represent
less tlian 11 of current Algerian wheat production. Since the Algerian self
sufficiency ratio in wheats for the 1982-86 period is only 241, increased
wheat production will be substituting for imports.
7.09     Industrial crops are sold to either the Agriculture Cooperative for
Industrial Crops (CASCI) which resells to the National Algerian Company for
Juices and Concentrates (ENAJUC) or directly to ENAJUC. Theoretically, the
industrial crops could also be sold to private buyers. However, private
sector involvement in this sub-sector has so far been extremely limited. This
1/ In Algeria "industrial crops" include wine grape, industrial vegetables
(mostly tomatoes), and tobacco.
I II c



- 31 -
is bound to change since, in view of the substantial increase in industrial
crop production expected at the national level, particularly as a result of
irrigation development, the Government intends to rely on the private sector
for investment in processing facilities. Increased production of industrial
crops from the project will essentially consist of industrial tomatoes and
will represent 61 of total 1987 Algerian production in industrial tomatoes.
The existing ENAJUC capacities in the proximity of the project area are
insufficient to absorb the expected increase in production from the project.
However, preliminary authorization has already been granted by Tipasa province
for the installation of a private tomato paste producer; thus, no bottleneck
is anticipated. As two thirds of Algerian demand for tomato paste are covered
by imports, valued at DA 122 M in 1987, tomato paste production would also be
an import substitute.
Non ReRulated crops
7.10     Fruits and Vegetables.  The marketing of vegetables is usually done
by selling the standing crop a few weeks before harvest to private traders;
the principal advantag. to the farm being the savings in harvesting costs.
For the 1987/88 crop y-ar, it is estimated that private traders took care of
about 652 of the production in the project area, while the remaining 35S was
marketed throug'l the Cotperative for Fruits and Vegetables (COFEL), the
Agricultural Cooperative Specialized in Marketing Fruits and Vegetables
(CASSEFEL) and the state-owned National Specialized Company for Algerian
Fruits a:.d Vegetables (ENAFIA). The Specialized cooperatives and ENAFLA have
experienced a sharp decline in their activity as most EACs prefer to sell to
private traders, while before the agricultural reform they handled most of the
DASs production. These specialized cooperatives and IJAFLA are expected to be
reorganized and public sector involvement in fruits and vegetables is
anticipated to decline. The largest relative increases in production expected
from the project for single crops, as compared to national production, are for
fruits and vLgetables, and particularly fresh tomatoes (101 of national
production) and citrus (121 of national production). Smaller relative
increases are expected for watermelons, potatoes, and apples; these increases
represent 62, 21 and 1Z respectively of total Algerian production in 1987.
7.11     Most of the fruits and vegetables produced in the project area will
be consumed domestically as domestic demand for fresh fruits and vegetables is
increasing fast with Algeria's growing population. The increased production
of potatoes, which are an important staple in Algerian diet, will substitute
for imports since the Algerian self-sufficiency ratio was 781 for the 1982-86
period. One of the consequences of DASs dismantlement will probably be an
increased supply of fruits and vegetables as farmers will expand areas in
these crops, which benefit from very high financial prices at the moment, and
productivity will improve, particularly in areas brought under irrigation. As
a result, prices should decrease somewhat, which has been taken into account
in the financial analysiS by reducing current financial prices for fruits and
vegetables by 201. However, with the Algerian population growing at a high
rate of 3.21, risks of massive oversupply are limited. Furthermore, the
project area is particularly well located, with easy access to the major and
fastest growing markets in the country. It is only 5' km away from Algiers
and close to the largest wholesale market in the country (Bouffarik).
Government plans to expand and upgrade this wholesale market and to create
another wholesale market close to the project area. No major marketing
problem for fruits and vegetables is therefore anticipated.
ll  lc



- 32 -
7.12     Milk and Meat.  Increased production from the project will be fairly
small since it only represents 12 and 21 of total national production of milk
and beef, respectively, in 1987. Domestic demand for red meat and milk is
increasing fast, self-sufficiency ratios over the 1982-86 period are 82% and
401 respectively; the increased production from the project will therefore
substitute for imports.
D. Farm Inco -es
7.13     The project would directly benefit about 5,100 EAC members (total
number with Project) and private farmers and their families, or a total of
about 38,250 people in the project area-'.  In addition the project would
generate at full development about 340,000 man-days of employment (or 211 of
total labor needs) for hired labor.
7.14     The financial costs and benefits to the farm are summarized in six
farm models (see Table 7.05). The financial prices used for the farm budgets
are detailed in Annex 15. The project will bring very substantial increases
in net benefit to the EACs and private farmers. Net farm benefits after
financing in the with project case, range from about 2.5 to about 6.5 times
the expected net benefits in the without project situation. The returns per
family day of labor increase from a range of 125-260 DA/manday in the~ without
project situation, to a range of 360-690 DA/man day in the with project
situation as compared to a DA 100/day daily wage for casual agricultural labor
in the project area.
E. Cost Recovery
7.15     The Algerian law-&  sets the following principles for cost recovery
for potable, industrial, agricultural and sewage water projects: full recovery
of O&M costs and gradual recovery of investment costs. For irrigation
projects the law establishes a binomial tariff structure whereby water charges
are a function of the maximum delivery capacity of the farm turnout, actual
water consumption and a fixed annual levy (FAL) on a per ha basis. The law
also stipulates that such charges should recover full O&M costs and a
reasonable percentage of investment costs. The levels of the irrigation water
charges are to be determined jointly by MA and MH.
7.16     Water consumption is to be paid through a volumetric water charge
(VWC). The decree of October 10, 1988, retroactive to January 1, 1988, fixes
a uniform DA 0.35/m3 VWC for all OPIs and a FAL ranging between DA 150 and
DA 300/ha according to the OPI considered. In the Phase I area, the VWC is
DA 0.35/m3 and the FAL is DA 300/ha.
7.17     For the Cheliff Irrigation Project (Ln 2809-AL) water charges were
agreed on between the Government and the Bank to recover 1001 of O&M and 251
of investment costs, resulting in a VWC of DA 0.54/m3 and a FAL of DA
1035/ha. Similar charges (in constant 1987 DA) for WMIP would result in a VWC
of DA 0.56/m3 and a FAL of DA 1825/ha (see Annex 12) requiring 60% and
sixfold increases, respectively, over present rates in Phase I.
1/ Each family is estimated to have 7.5 people.
2/ Decree no 85-267 of October 29, 1985.
i: 1ic



- 33 -
Table 7.05. FINANCIAL BUDGETS AND RETURNS TO "FAMILY" LABOR&"
Farm Models k'
A       B         C         D        E         F
Size of Farm (ha)           25       32        64        64      130         7
Numb'r of farms            158       '.5       75        10        7       100
Number of Beneficiaries/farm
Without Project           7        6        12       12        15         1
With Project             9        12        22       24        30         1
(DA '000)
Net Benefit
Before Financing
Without Project         480       220       400      650       890       140
With Project          1,135    1,220    2,200    2,800    4,350          445
Incremental             655    1.090    1,800    2,150    3,550         305
Financial Rate of
Return Before          150X      227S      621      1101      2002      1701
Financing
Net Benefit
After Financing
Without Project         430       170       310      545       685       120
With Project          1,070    1,135    2,000    2,620    3,800         410
Incremental             640       965    1,690    2,075    3,115        290
(DA)
Returns per Family
Day of Labor
Without Project         260       125       130      175       170       225
With Project            440       385       360      440       460       690
Incremental             180       260      230       265       290      465
a/  "Family" represents here the members of the EAC/I or the private farmer
b/ A: Fruit trees/garden crops
B: Cereals/garden crops small scale
C: Cereals/garden crops large scale
D: Livestock/garden crops/cereals small scale
E: Livestock/garden crops/cereals large scale
F: Garden crops/fruit trees/livestock
Il IIc



- 34 -
Table 7.06: COST AND RENT RECOVERY
Farm models at full development &'
A       B        C        D        E        F
Farm Size               ha             25       32       64       64      130        7
Number of Farms                       158       95       75       10        7      100
(OUO DA)
1. Net Incremental Benefitk'          810    1280    2150    2520    4280         355
excl. Taxes
2. Rent                               340      680      975    1250    2350       200
3. Volumetric Water Charges            80       90      160      165     350       25
Assuming 25X Investment Cost Recovery
4. Land Betterment Levy               180      235      465     465      945       50
5. Total Incr. Taxes (3+4)            260      325      625     630    1295        75
6. Rent Recovery Index (5:2)         0.37    0.22    0.28    0.23    0.25    0.19
7. Net Incr. Income
Recovery Index (5:1)              0.16    0.12    0.13    0.11    0.14    0.10
a/ A: Fruit trees/garden crops
B: Cereals/garden crops small scale
C: Cereals/garden crops large scale
D: Livestock/garden crops/cereals small scale
E: Livestock/garden crops/cereals large scale
F: Garden crops/fruit trees/livestock
b/ Net incremental farm benefit excluding water charges and benefit taxes.
Il IIc



- 35 -
Compared with the VWC for the Cheliff Project, the VWC for WMIP would only be
marginally higher but the FAL 751. The summary table 7.06 shows the burden of
100 OE&M and 25% investment cost recovery as a percentage of total rents
accruing to the farms for the different farm models (for details see Annex
13). The rents are defined as net incremental income less imputed costs for a
number of factors plus an allowance for risk. Only 19-372 of the rent and
10-161 of the incremental incee would be captured through these cost recovery
levels, which shows that, in principle, the farmers should have no difficulty
to pay these charges.
7.18     However, mainly for the reason that (i) the cost recovery policy for
irrigation water is being reviewed by Government at the national level, and
(ii) because of the far reaching reforms already ongoing in the Algerian
agricultural sector, and (iii) the inherent uncertainty in predicting the
financial profitability of the farms in the project area, and thus farmers'
ability to pay for water charges, Government could not comit itself to a 251
investment cost recovery target, although it shares the objective.
Consequently, assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government will
(i) charge a volumetric water charge and a fixed annual levy in order to
recover the full O&M costs and a reasonable percentage of the investment
costs, respectively; (ii) undertake a water tariff study for the WMIP to
determine investment and O&M costs and the extent of farmers' ability to pay
water charges, and (iii) on the basis of the water tariff study, and after
taking into accomnt Bank's comments, prepare and present to the Bank, by
December 31, 1991, a specific action plan for the implementation of the
proposed water tariff structure.
F. Economic Analysis
7.19     The project would comprise irrigation, drainage and roads
construction on 14,000 ha, installation of on-farm irrigation equipment on
22,000 ha and construction of roads and drainage only in the Halloula area
(1,800 ha). The discussion that follows quantifies the economic costs and
benefits associated with the project over a 40 year time period which is the
assumed economic life of the major investments. All costs and benefits are
expreesed in constant 1987 prices and valued at the domestic price level in
efficiency prices by eliminating transfer payments and adjusting for
distortions in traded as well as non-traded items.
7.20     The Halloula sub-project has been excluded from the economic analysis
because (i) it accounts for a very small share of total costs since only
drainage will be undertaken, aad (ii) related benefits - mostly from
livestock - are difficult to estimate and would only be a small share of total
benefits.
7.21     The project covers mainly the second phase of the West Mitidja
Irrigation Scheme. An economic analysib of the overall scheme was also
carried out taking into account all costs and benefits for the overall scheme,
including all dams, tunnels, diversions and costs of irrigation infrastructure
for both the first and second phase.
Costs and Benefits
7.22     In the base case economic analysis the economic costs include: (i)
civil works (Djer and Boukourdane diversions, irrigation, roads and drainage
networks); (ii) equipment and vehicles; (iii) operation and maintenance and
replacement costs; (iv) on-farm investment costs; (v) institutional
I ,,  .c



- 36 -
development; and (vi) research and extension costs. Commodities that are
officially traded are priced at the actual 1987 import parity or export parity
price, adjusted for the World Bank's commodity price forecasts for 1990
whenever possible. Non-traded commodities, such as fruits and vegetables,
currently command exceptionally high prices in Algeria which may not continue
in the medium-term. Commodities that are not officially traded are therefore
conservatively priced at Moroccan or Tunisian border equivalents, based on
1987 Moroccan or Tunisian financial prices, and adjusted for transport costs.
For off-farm investment costs, economic prices are derived by breaking down
financial prices into tradable and non-tradable, removing taxes, and adjusting
for the labo?. opportunity cost and the premium for foreign exchange.
Unskilled labor cost is valued at 50 DA/day in economic terms, or 50% of the
market wage (for details see Annexes 14 and 15).
Economic Rate of Return
7.23     The overall economic rate of return for the project is estimated at
12X. The Net Present Value of the project at a discount rate of 102 is
estimated at DA 361.3 M. The project is thus considered economically
acceptable for financing. It is at present one of the best available
investments in the irrigation sector in Algeria and fits into Government's
priority of completing first the already on-going irrigation schemes in order
to accelerate the use of the hydraulic infrastructure already in place. The
economic rate of return for the overall West Mitidja Irrigation Scheme is only
7.32 because of relatively high investments in the past and which were taken
into account in this analysis. This rather low rate of return for the overall
scheme is specifically due to the high cost of mobilizing water, a condition
that the project is expected to share with most remaining LSI schemes (para
2.19). The low rate of return for the overall scheme nevertheless underlines
the need for careful planning and economic assessment of each LSI.
G. Risks and Sensitivity Analyss
7.24     The major risks which could adversely affect the future economic
viability of the project proposed for financing are the following:
(i)    Profound changes are affecting most sectors of the Algerian
economy; the Algerian agricultural sector is undergoing a
tremendous transformation on all fronts: production, input
distribution, marketing, pricing, research and extension, and
credit; there is thus some uncertainty concerning the future
shape of the Algerian agricultural sectcr and the performance
of the newly created EACs. Possible difficulties or delays in
orchestrating all of these changes could prevent the EACs from
making efficient use of the irrigation facilities provided by
the project, at least in the time frame anticipated. Most
importantly, lack of access to credit for purchase of
sprinkler systems, scarcity of inputs or unreliable supply and
inadequate extension services would have a negative impact on
production. Sensitivity analyses were carried out to test
these risks; by: (a) decreasing benefits by 102, the Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) drops to 10.22; (b) decreasing EACs'
yields by 10% and increasing on-farm operating costs by 101 to
reflect inadequate managemnent, the ERR drops to 101; (c)
introducing a lag of one or two years in the benefit streams
drops the ERR to 10.31 and 9.11 respectively.



- 37 -
(ii)   Delays in project implementation due to, inter alia, shortages
of materials, delays in recruitment of consultants,
procurement problems and/contractors' performance.   A two
year delay in the implementation of the civil works would only
have a small impact and reduce the ERR to 11.52.
(iii)  Faster than expected sedimentation in the reservoir would lead
to a shorter economic life of the project. A 10 year decrease
in the economic life (30 years instead of 40 years) would also
only have a small impact; it would decrease the ERR to 11.31.
(iv)   Importation of pipes in case locally manufactured pipes would
not be available could ir rease project costs by 10X and would
reduce the ERR to 10.41, but this risk appears relatively
small (para 6.05).
(v)    Availability of groundwater in the project area and a high
level of water charges may prompt farmers to continue to use
groundwater and/or resist paying water charges. The farm
models, however, show that the farmers would be able to make a
substantial contribution to cost recovery (para 7.17). Also,
Government's commitment to collect water charges would reduce
this risk. In addition Government would be studying specific
measures under the project to reduce groundwater pumping (para
5.22).
7.25     As mentioned in para 7.03, once irrigation water is available, the
farmer is assumed to irrigate the entire farm after three y3ars which is a
conservative estimate. A fourth economic analysis was made assuming that the
farmer is able to irrigate immediately the total  farm area once water is
available; the ERR increases then to 13%.
7.26     The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized in Table 7.07
and show that the Project is sensitive to benefit decreases or delays, which
would result from lower than expected EAC performance . However the likely
evolution of the Algerian agricultural sector and Bank involvement in the
overall reform process would help reduce this risk as, (i) most importantly,
the proposed Agriculture Research and Extension Project would improve
technical and managerial skills of the EACs in Tipasa province, and (ii) the
proposed Agricultural Credit Project along with increased private involvement
in input distribution, would improve availability of basic inputs and credit.
Furthermore, a special unit in OPIM will be entrusted with advising the
farmers in the new irrigation techniques.



- 38 -
Table 7.07.: RESULTS OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Base Case Analysis
West Mitidja Irrigation Project
(Base case without sunk costs)                  12Z
Overall Weit-Mitidja Irrigation Scheme           7.3%
Sensitivity Analysis
Benefits down 102, 201                          10.22, 8.42
Cost up 102, 202                                10.42, 9.02
Yields down 102 and on-farm operating
costs up 102                                    10.02
Benefit lag  1 year                             10.32
Benefit lag  2 years                             9.12
Civil works 2 years delayed                     11.5Z
With faster production build up                 13.02
With shorter economic life (30 years)           11.32
Vm. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     During negotiations Government has confirmed that it will:
(a) aim to implement key project activities according to an agreed
Action Plan for project implementation (para 5.10);
(b) revise its procurement procedures for use under the Project as
agreed on for the Cheliff Irrigation Project (para 5.14);
8.02     During negotiations the following assurances were obtained:
(a) Government will implement the Boukourdane pipeline by December
31, 1993 and, the Djer diversion by June 30, 1995 (para 5.09);
I1 11C



- 39 -
(b)  Government will, for the West Mitidja Irrigation Scheme area (i)
prepare a fertilizer and pest management plan by June 30, 1992
and implement such plan by June 30, 1994; (ii) monitor the
quality of the groundwater and quantity and quality of the waste
water discharged in the area; (iii) undertake a base line
environment pollution survey area by December 31, 1992; and,
(iv) in case pollutants are found in the aquifer, implement an
action program by December 31, 1993 (para 5.20);
(c)  Government will, in consultation with the Bank, determine by
December 31, 1990, and subsequently implement measures, to
minimize the use of groundwater for irrigation in those parts of
the project area where the irrigation facilities are completed
(para 5.22);
(d)  Government will ensure proper project coordination between the
MR and the MA at the national and local levels (para 6.02);
(e)  Government will submit to the Bank detailed proposals, for
review and comment, for the organizational structure of OPIM by
December 31, 1991, and implement these proposals by December 31,
1992, including the establishment of an O&M unit in the project
area and with subunits for (i) the storage, sale and provision
of after sales services for on-farm irrigation equipment,
(ii) advising farmers on the selection of the most appropriate
equipment and on-farm water management; and (iii) the monitoring
of cropping patterns and efficiency of water use on the farm
(6.11);
(f)  Government will ensure that AGID will prepare an O&M manual,
including arrangements between AGID and ANB to ensure the timely
releases of irrigation water (para 6.12);
(g)  Government will ensure that the Boukourdane and Moustakbel dams
will be periodically inspected by experts, acceptable to the
Bank, to review the safety of the dams (para 6.13), and;
(h)  Government will (i) charge a volumetric water charge and a fixed
annual levy in order to recover the O&M costs and a reasonable
percentage of the capital costs, respectively; (ii) undertake a
water tariff study for the WMIP to determine a reasonable level
of cost recovery from the farmers; and, (iii) on the basis of
the water tariff study, and after taking into account Bank's
comments, prepare and present to the Bank, by December 31, 1991,
a specific action plan for the implementation of a water tariff
structure (para 7.18).
8.03     Based on the above conditions the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$ 110 million to the Democratic and Popular Republic of
Algeria for a term of 15 years including 5 years grace at the standard
variable interest rate. The project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1995.
X i le



- 40 -                                                                                        ANNEX 1
*tlE41E
DEVELOP9NEWI WE'             6lE c0LE  0   LA NIU IIUI  - OUESI
PUO.MCI COST SU_T
ID 5 4  01                                                             Also "001111
.........................................               .    .......    ..... .         S.8..   S  s. sl.l..    ....l.ss...l.. ........
AL ViL9fiN- KEI KSICS IN EAU
....._...._..... ....
1. SERMi11i 1 K   6011.gUl                                          83.6SU          68.311         171. 96              II           a       12.6710      13. SU      26.40?               St           a
2.   ewvatson de dw               arrep  .m9a                       08.03J         112.WI          21.S4106             St           10      16.313       17. 313      33.626              St          10
...... ...... . . .......... .............. .......... ............ ..... ...... .... ..... ....... .. ... .... ...  .............. ............................
S    Tb- l- E I(l   O            IESUCSS  EN  EAU              I      U      a 6 1     20eu647         3900.13               Si          16      21. IU       30,90   e       .043             51           Is
I.  LAS C   ALLOULA                                                  1.231           9.64           Ia. 6116            5            I        1. 420       1,487        2. "0              Si
2. SECIEU1      6                                                  121. so         144. 267        261.S6               54          12       16. I"       22. I"       40. "0              S4          12
3.  SECTIU6 E                                                       U. 725          76.  1         14?. 541             13           7       10.1573      12. 125    22. m                 53           7
4.  SICEIA  FG                                                      81.541          93. 73         17. 304                3          A       12. s4s      14, 42       26. 70              13           a
s.  SECTIES  A                                                      74.4   7        93.976         16. 643              56           a       11. 4?       14. 41       25.14"              56           6
6.  SECTEUI  a                                                      9g. 736        120, 63         212.421              11 s         o       Is. 190      11.117       33. 71              11          to
7.  SECTIEU   C                                                     63.113         106.674         190.127              56           *       12.116       16,411    292.27                 56           9
.......... ---------- ... ----------     --------- ... ......... ............. . .......    .........  .........                .....     ..... .... _....... ...... .......... ......
Sub-letaI  INURASITUCTURE  ItOOAN               ICOLE                  s36. 441        647  643    1. 166. 2U                ss         55       6i2.  .      99. 66      162. s6              55         5S
C.  INVISIISSEKAIS  A  LA  FERN E
...... ...... ...._       ..._ .
1. P_ICl4IO     VEGEIALE                                          255.774          137.552        303.326               35          in      39.350    21.  52         60 .12               35          I6
.....__._............    .............. ..........    .............  ........   ............ ....._........... . .......   .......... .  ........ .
Ih-,lotsl  INIVESTISSENINTS  A  LA  fEfM                               255.714         137.552         323. 26               31          Is      32.250       21. 162    60.112                3is         1
A. IEIIOISINI AOSIIUISTIIATI104
...*.........................
I.    I..4 onYO0ULIE                                                16   6          22. "2          41.037              so           2        2.762        3.531        6.313             5I            2
2.  OFFICE  NITIOA                                                  12. "7          3 m1.I         126 ee2              27            6      14.2M2        S. 41       19 ,7e              27           6
3.  &PA*                                                              I.610           '.110          3. WI              14           0           248          214          542             14           0
..... ..... . .... ... .. . ".. ....... ....... ..... .......... ........  ........... ......... ............ .......
S  bo*taI RENTOARCENEWI ADInIISTATU ION                                112.512          60. "A         172.650               35           a      17.322        9.240       26.162              35           a
E.  PoOtECTIO   ENVIEOIUNEWt                                              1 637           4, 401          6.03              73           0          252           6U          929              13          0
letal   ASEl!NE  COSIS                                                 1. o08  132    1050.702   2.14.640                      41         100      168. 144    161. 646   330.111                 40          0o0
pgicaI  Conti  ng-coos                                                111.221         i25.436         244.66S s                        IT       16.343       11.216       37.641              St          It
Pree  Cont   g          e -lis                                        IIL6.1 I        177, 45        374. 161               47         I7       30.294    27  376    07.670                   47          I7
lettl  P60ECT  COSTS                                                   1.   4. 276   1.234.603   2. 76    361                  49         129    217.531    208.320   425.102                     49         129
a.9   .... 3.  198..10..   a s ....I          .          .......I.s ...   ass.. sstasg    ...S                       .....    a. .      $.
. ................ ............................ ...... ......... .. ... .. ......... ............. ......................................................
t4 t 3.  12t         10  it



- 41 -                                                                                   ANNEX 2
A401111H
oEVELOPtNEUI lN eN o             ticolE  D  La NIIID,IA    ouSI
Project CoMpORShs by leer
Usee Cots                                                  Tots I
... ..........................................................                     ................................................................. .......... ...
0            0             1       32          33          94          15                        1 uss0 I e
*. Kvtrt PSt lE        KsoC s tNl f.F
.............................a
1. 33131114   t                    t0131II                      -    32. 155    40. U4    43. H1    2S. 4e    1. 244              3. 614        171. 9C         26. 457
2. dwtw tle   de ije.  buirag  ets)l                                        -           -           -    70.41    74. 271    73. %I            218.616         33. US
... ..................... .......   ........   ........... ........ ........... .. .......... ........ ............ ..........
S& -ostallKVLUPM               KS      S  to                         -    32. ISS    40.34    41.01    97.221    93.511    17. 171                  3. e  sw.U
I.  I4U9SITCIEt INIhIOhhhICOL
.................... ..........................
1. LuC MrLLWLA                                            14. 4?          700         70          700        700         700         700         1,86C           2. 3l
2. Scl                                                           -    6U. 644      6. 220    32. 404       6. II       6. 136      6,196        265.853         40. WI
3. SCIEU  I                                                           It. 371    62.17    56.436           3. 040      300         3. 040       147,541         22. we
4. SECIM                                                         -     6.54    33. 772    *S 243    45. 30             4. I&I      4. III       17?. 304        26. 70
S   Ste CI     *A                                                     24. 038    75.5    53. 700    5270              5.270       5.270        IS. 643         25.345
6. SECTE    a                                                         46. 15#    64. U 82    5. 271       10. 32    14. *02        5.S36        212 421         33. IS?
7. SECti   C                                                     -           -    t3. 536    U.   ?        0. 302    41. 002       6. 20        t". 027         2. 327
----   -----  -----   -----  ------   -------  .--------.   .  ..... ............   ... ........ ..
Su-f*etal  INFUSSTtUCIURe   Nl04061oCE                        14. 57   167, 73   356. 12  40. 617   131 200    74. 451    31 931    1, 1626 122. 506
C. INVESIISSENtES A LA FEINE
........ .... .. .........
1. PIMINCTIOI VEGETALE                                          -    51.713       13. 70     63.310   111.532   100.216    52. 40              333 326         60. 512
.... ........   ........   ........... ........   ........... ........        ----------.. ----------. ........ .
Sub-lotal  IIVESTISSEiSTS A LA FEIE                                  -    51.7 1      13. 70      63.310   1M .532   100.216    52. 40             333.325         60.512
0.    UFOScEINI AONIUISISATIO
........ ........... .... ..... .. .. 
1. 11111.1IIMML UE                                         S ,24S    13. 04        7,710       7, 32       5.330      2.030          245         41. 031         6.313
2. OfFIE  NITIOd                                          10.511    17.413    30. 120    24 S30    14.653    15,615    15.033                   128 002         13.707
3. AnPh                                                    2.043          754         627          30          30          30                      3.521            542
....--   ------   -------  ---.. ;................. ............ ... ........   ........... ......... .............. ..........
Sublotal ENEFRCENENI AODINISTRATION                           17.810    31. 2U        38.457    31 .42    20.212    17,675    15.276                172 VI          26. S62
E.  MIECTION ENVIIOIINENEWI                                       217      2. 7         1. 733        75C        542                                  6. 33             329
.... .... ............... ...... ... ...... .......   ...........  .... ..... ... ..... ........   ........... ......... .............. ..........
otal  BASELIiiE  COSIS                                          32.723   285.63   451,535   5SS.27    360. 723  285.658   177,211    2.148.640                      330. 511
Pftytal Contingwiciia                                         2.736    32. 27        53. 177     2. 447    42.0 e       32.348    1. 21           244. 665        37. 41
Price Contiu.emics                                               710    1 .321    52. 102    91.021    7  .646    76.756    57. 00                 374.856        57. 10
....... ....... ...... --------............................... ------  ------  -- ---   -------    ---------- ----.... ..........
Total PWECI COSTS                                               36. 230   337. 03   556.1 S   706.155   40. 670   35. 262   253. 52                 . 76. 361        42 902
5S....  assa6ss   sss.as                    ..... .s..ss...  .5.5.53   assaS      ass              S2SS33
Tag".                                                         6,463 64    5 33    02  730   131. @22    6 5.4    64 03              37.U6         432  76         7. 612
Foreign Exchange                                             16.062   174 520   233  552   370,090   231 075   171.   S    97. 153              1 354.083        206  320
................. .................. ................... ................................... .........................................
Pay 3. 1282 10:11



ANNEX 3
ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Equipment to be Procured under Bank Loan
Base Cost
Item                                   Quantity            DA'OOO
A. For Project Unit
4-Wheel drive vehicles                            10                  950
Passenger cars                                     4                  280
Office & misc. equipment                          LS                  800
B. For OPIM
Computers                                         LS                  300
Office & misc. equipment                          LS                  300
Radio comuunication equipment                     LS                  850
Workshop equipment                                LS                  600
Equipment for EAC support urnit                   LS                  600
4-Wheel drive vehicles                             8                  760
Pick-ups                                           8                  640
Passenger cars                                    18                1,260
Motorcycles                                      150                  600
Dragline                                           1                1,650
Bulldozer                                          1                  700
Loader                                             1                 470
Compressor                                         1                  140
Forklift                                           1                  250
Sub-total      9,120
C. For ANRH
4-Wheel drive vehicles                             2                  380
Equipment for:
(i)  Soils and drainage investigations            LS                 800
(ii) Monitoring groundwater for pollutirn         LS                 600
D. For INPV
Vehicles                                           4                  380
Total         13,310
= == =U 



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(in US$ M)
IBRD Fiscal
Year and Semester          During Semester          Cumulative
1990
1st                        0.0                   0.0
2nd                        3.3                    3.3
1991
1st                        5.5                   8.8
2nd                        6.6                   15.4
1992
lst                        7.7                  23.1
2.nd                       9.9                  33.0
1993
lst                        7.7                  40.7
2nd                        9.9                  50.6
1994
1st                       12.1                  62.7
2nd                        8.8                  71.5
1995
1st                        9.9                  81.4
2nd                       11.0                  92.4
1996
18 s                       8.8                 101.2
2nd                        8.8                 110.0



- 44 -AN=X5
Page 1 of 2
ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Action Plan
Action to be Taken                           Action to be    Target Dates
Taken by
1. irritation Infrastructure
(a) Award of contracts                        AGID          Nov. 1989
(b) Recruitment of consultants for
construction supervision:                 AGID
(i)   Preparation shortlist                            June 1989
(ii)  Invite proposals                                 July 1989
(iii) Signing contract                                 Oct. 1989
2. Boukourdane Diversion
Issue of bidding documents                   ANB          July, 1990
3. Dier Diversion
(a) Preparation bidding documents            ANB           1990
(b) Bidding                                  ANB           1991
(c) Start of construction                    ANB          Jan. 1992
4. Drainage Investigations & Design
(a) Recruit drainage specialist              ANRH         Jan. 1990
(b) Drainage investigations in 600 ha        ANRS
of Phase I and in Phase II area
(14,000 ha)
(i)   Procurement of equipment                        Febr.-June 1990
(ii)  additional soil surveys                         June-July 1990
(iii) installation of piezometers
and observation wells                           July 1990
(iv) monitoring of piezometers and                    Aug. 1990-Sept. 1991
observation wells
(c) Decide criteria for tertiary/
quaternary surface drains and sub-
surface drainage if needed.             AGID/ANRH    Dec. 1991
(d) Prepare bidding document                AGID          March 1992
2nd phase drainage system
5. Fertilizer and Peat Management Plan          INPV
(a) Recruit consultant
(i)   Preparation short List                          Nov. 1989
(ii)  Invite proposals                                Dec. 1989
(iii) Signing contract                                May  1990



ANNEX 5
Page2 of 2
(b) Preparation of Plan
(c) Plan Implementation
6. Monitor Upper Groundwater for
Nitrates and Dissolved Solids                 ANRH
(a) Recruit consultant                                     Jan. 1990
(b) Install shallow observation wells                      July 1990
(c) Monitor quality groundwater                            Aug. 1990 and on
7. Base Line Environment Pollution Survey        MHEF
(a) Survey and study
(b) Establish monitoring stations                          Jan. 1991
(c) Monitor quality groundwater and                        Jan. 1991 and on
quantities and qualities of wastewater
(d) Impiementation of action program
8. OPIM Activities
(a) Prepare detailed proposals for
organizational structure                                    1/
(b) Implement proposals
(c) Recruit consultants to assist with
setting up a sub-unit for storage,
sale and provision of after sales
services for sprink.er equipment
and assist with items (c) and (d)                      March 1990
(d) Set up O&M unit in Project area                        March 1992
(e) Set up Farmers Advisory Sub-unit
fox Water Management                                   March 1992
(f) Set up Monitoring Sub-unit                             March 1992
(g) Complete bidding documents for
first batch of sprinkler equipment                     Sept 1990
1/ See Loan Agreement for actual date.



- 46 -                          ANNEX 6
Algeria
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Outline of Trainina Proeram
Training Required                      Training Envisaged
A  ANR.
1. Development of basic knowledge and                 Tailor made course in
Understanding of drainage and salinity             Algeria (3-4 weeks,
control                                            30 students)
International course
(2 engineers; 2 weeks)
2. Training in drainage surveys                       International course
(4 engineers; 2 weeks)
3. Training in monitoring                             Training in Algeria
(20 students; 2 weeks)
4. Training i.7 interpretation of results             On the job training by
drainage specialist
B. Proiect Unit
I. Training in contract manAgement,                   Short courses abroad and
including quality control                         study tours to other on-
going projects (for senior
managers and engineers;
about 10 man-months)
C. OPIM
1. Setting up organization for selection,             (i)  study tours for senior
procurement, sale and provision of after                managers (2 persons,
sales services of sprinkler equipment                   3 weeks)
(ii) on the job training
by consultant
2. Design, operation and maintenance                  International course
of sprinkler equipment                             (2 engineers; 2 months)
3. Soil, water, plant relationships                   International course
(2 agronomis's; 2 months)
4. Training of technicians in topics 2 & 3            On the job training by
staff trained under 2 & 3
5. Other aspects (O&M, financial management, etc)  Training needs to be
determined.



47 -                                ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5
ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Constction Super
1.   AGID would recruit a consulting firm to assist with construction
supervision. The terms of reference for the consultants will include but not
necessarily be restricted to:
(a) Advising the PU in administrative, technical and financial aspects of
contract management;
(b) Ensuring the accuracy of alignments and levels of the projects works;
(c) Ensuring that the works are executed to the specifications of the
contract;
(d) Assisting with the review of the contractor's work plars and
proposing necessary changes to ensure a rational and phased program
for project completion;
(e) Identifying any weaknesses in the contractor's resources or
performance and recommend necessary remedial measures;
(f) Assisting to resolve any contractual disputes or settlement of claims;
(g) Identifying and supervising design changes due to:
(i)   changes in road layout in order to limit road access by
irrigation units to one road only;
(ii) changes in drainage network design resulting from additional
investigations; and,
(iii) changes in irrigation drainage and road network layout; prepare
revised designs up to the standards of the bidding documents in
order to adapt the existing layout to the EACs boundaries.
(h) Supervising the preparation of the working drawings by the contractor.
B. On-Farm Development. Operation and Maintennee
General
2.   OPIM will recruit a consulting firm to assist with (a) the setting up of
a unit for the supply, storage and sale of on-farm irrigation equipment, and
the provision of after sales services, and advising farmers on the selection
of equipment; (b) the setting up of a unit for the monitoring of cropping
patterns and the usage of water at the farm outlet and at various locations in
the system; and, (c) preparing O&M procedures, and financial management and
administration.
Terms of Reference
3.   (a) Recomend after review of available specifications, the most suitable
types of sprinkler and/or drip irrigation systems; advice will be
given on the carrying out of field tests to determine soil
infiltration rates and other design criteria;



- 48-                             ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5
(b)   Prepare in a timely fashion specifications and bidding documents
for irrigation equipment, taking into account locally available
materials, expected demand for various types of equipment and
completion targets for the irrigation infrastructure; provide
assistance in bid evaluation;
(c)   Make detailed recommendations for the staffing, equipment and
management of a unit in OPIM to be responsible for the storage,
sale and provision of after sales services, including advising
farmers on most suitable equipment; establish detailed procedures
and assist with the establishment of this unit during its initial
two years of operation;
(d)   Make detailed recommendations for the staffing, equipment and
management of a unit to advise farmers on on-farm water management;
(e)   Make detailed recommendations for the staffing, equipment and
management of a unit entrusted with the monitoring of cropping
patterns and the usage of water at the farm outlet and at various
locations in the system;
(f)   Give detailed advice on O&M procedures and practices, including the
preparation of an O&M manual with detailed rules and regulations;
(g)   Advise on selection of O&M equipment and its procurement;
(h)   Advise on administrative and financial management including the
setting up of a computerized system for customer billing;
(i)   Identify training needs and appropriate training programs for staff
at all levels; provide on the job training as needed.
C. Drainge Stu. ies
4.   The following studies will be undertaken by ANRH under the guidance of an
expatriate drainage specialist.
(a) Monitoring Sub-surface Drainage System in Phase I
5.   Purpose is to verify the various assumptions made in the design of the
existing 600 ha sub-surface drainage system in Phase I, which will be of
importance for the planning of the drainage system in MIPII.
6.   Measurements will be made of, inter alia, (i) levels of shallow
groundwater table between two drains in 3-5 observation fields before and
after rain and before and after irrigation, (ii) water levels in drainage
pipes, (iii) discharges of drains and salinity of drainage water, (iv)
discharge of sediments, (v) electric conductivity, anions and cations of soil
samples.
7.   The operation of the drains will be checked twice a year, with and after
an irrigation or rainfall. Discharges and salinities would be measured; the
measurements would be related to the soils classification.
(b) Observations and measurements for Phase II
8.   Purpose is to determine, inter alia, the existence of impermeable layers,
lateral inflows if any, fluctuations in phreatic water table during the
seasons, the mechanism of salinization, leaching and desalinization in the
soil profile.



- 49 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 5
9.   Clusters of piezometers will be established at about 20 locations at
depths of 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 meters as well as an observation well up to 5 m to
measure the phreatic water table. Water levels will be measured every month,
in case of rain two times; while installing the observation well the soil
profile would be described, soil samples taken and analyzed for electric
conductivity. Water samples will be taken monthly and every two months soil
samples at various depths and analyzed for salinity and electric
conductivity. The hydraulic conductivity at the depth of the observation well
will be measured twice.
10. Additional soil survey work will be undertaken at 50-75 locations to
complement the existing surveys involving (i) description of soil profile up
to 3-5 m; (ii) taking soil samples of each layer and determining electric
conductivity; (iii) measuring water table and salinity, and (iv) measuring
hydraulic conductivity (two times).
11.  For the I-eparation of a water and salt balance of the soil, general
information will be collected such as climatic data, quality and quantity of
irrigation water, quantity and quality of drainage water, fluctuations of
phreatic water table and cropping pattern.
c. Training
12. Training programs will be prepared for the benefit of the staff involved
in the above outlined activities.
D. Preparati n of Pest Management Plan
General
13. The consultants will develop a Pest Management Plan in close cooperation
with the Institut National de la Protection de Vegetaux. This will be a
comprehensive operations plan to manage anticipated pest problems including
weeds, nematodes, insects, diseases etc.
14. The Plan must be designed to carry minimum risks to human health and to
the environment, consistent with effective and sustainable pest management.
Attention is drawn to the underground aquifer which is used for domestic water
consumption which must not be contaminated with pesticides which could pose a
significant threat to human health.
Terms of Reference
15. The team will draw up detailed and cost-effective Pest Management Plans
for the following crops: potatoes, tomatoes, other vegetables grown in both
the field and under plastic, citrus, pome fruits, stone fruit, neflier
(medlar), grapes, wheat, barley, maize, alfalfa, bersim clover, forage beets,
rye-grass zid vetch-oats.
16. The Plans will cover all primary and important secondary pests covered in
(but not restricted to) the earlier undertaken preliminary study.



ANNEX 7
- 50 -                           Page 4 of 5
17.  The plans will recommend appropriate Economic Injury Levels (EILs) and
intervention thresholds for each significant pest, disease, etc.
18. Appropriate sampling and monitoring techniques for each significant pest
will be described and will distinguish between those conducted by the farmers,
those carried out by INPV and those carried out by the Services de la
Protection Vegetale (SPVs).
19. Management measures should integrate all appropriate means, whether
cultural, varietal, biological or chemical, which should be identified and
described.
20. Detailed recommendations including products, rates and timing will be
drawn up.
21. Areas requiring additional research will be identified and described.
22. Storage facilities will be reviewed and equipment needs will be
identified.
23. Recommenadations will be made for the training (including safety aspects)
of INPV, SPV (CASSAP and Wilaya) staff and farmers where this is considered
necessary for the 5uccessful implementation of the Plans; detailed proposals
will be prepared for model farms for demonstration and training.
24. The personnel requirements are as follows:
(i)    Team Leader who should be an entomologist with general crop
protection experience;
(ii)   Agronomist/ Fertilizer Specialist;
(iii)  Phytopathologist who should have particular experience in both
field and enclosed vegetable production;
(iv)   Citrus (or deciduous fruit) entomologist;
(v)    Pesticide application specialist;
(vi)   Green house entomologist with IPM experience;
(vii)  Green house phytopathologist;
(viii) Deciduous fruit phytopathologist;
(ix)   Deciduous fruit (or citrus) entomologist;
(x)    Forage crop specialist with IPM experience;
(xi)   Weed control specialist;
(xii)  Extension and training specialist;
E. Monitoring Groundwater Table for
Nitrates aDd Dissolved Solids
25. ANRE will be assisted by a consultant to install and monitor an
exploratory groundwater quality network. This network will consist of about
20 shallow wells, depending upon the various combinations of soil type and
land use. The purpose of this network is:
(a) to check the various assumptions in the KIWA study (Illay 1988)
regarding the quality of shallow groundwater, e.g. the concentration
of nitrate and total dia-solved solids;



ANNEX 7
- 51 -                         Page 5 of 5
(b)  to validate the geohydrological picture presented in the KIWA study;
(c) to monitor the quality of the groundwater after implementation of
irrigation in order to assess the effects of irrigation upon
groundwater quality, to examine whether WHO guidelines for drinking
water would be exceeded, to monitor the effects of restrictions in
use of fertilizers and pesticides and the effects of treatment of
sewage and waste water and to recommend any necessary restrictions
and/or measures.
26. Prior to the implementation of the monitoring system, additional studies
will bh undertaken to determine the exact location of the wells, their
designated construction and the recommended frequency of sampling and schedule
for chemical analysis. It will also be examined to what extent the
piezometers and observation wells for the drainage surveys can be used for
this purpose.
F. Base Line Environnment PoUution Survey
28. A base line survey of sources of pollution in the project area will be
conducted with tne purpose of identifying point sources of pollution and
corresponding pollution loads. This study will:
(a) prepare an inventory of industries which shall include a description
of the processes and materials used; types, characteristics and
quantities of wastes generated (solid, liquid and gaseous);
(b) determine how such wastes are stored on site and/or disposed off
site; if industries have wastewater treatment facilities, obtain
information on effluent quality and plant performance;
(c) locate industries and their points of discharge on an area map;
(d) identify sources of pollution which pose a major threat to water
quality; and,
(e) examine proposed programs for industry expansion in the area;
(f) identify all populated areas on the area map and obtain population
data (including project population);
(g) obtain data on drinking water quality and consumption and data on
wastewater quantities and methods of disposal, and in the case of
commuriities with sewerage systems, obtain information on sewage
treatment facilities and their performance;
(h) identify the best locations for water quality monitoring stations to
correlate any groundwater quality changes with sources of
contamination.



- 52 -
ALGERIA                                                              ANNEX 8
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
LWU ISI mu3 113106s SItlitIOIS
liPi1 area
lefore              Defore               Withot                With
Irohect             troject              Project              Project
(hat            2   (ha)            2   (ha)            I2  MA Io
OICT dU. IICLUIIK  UlIl  t0ill
Cereals                             461        2In      4146         2n      406          261     4675         32n
hoat                     4m'          262     4146         U2      4tn          2n2    2615         in
Con                                                                                    2616         14I
i  Leges                            144          3S
forage Crops                       2646         142    2515          in      25N6         16    3225          222
Gardem  Crops                       1466        II     3266         222    3295          23U     5666         3n2
Potatoes                                                           2746                2345
Casliflouer                                                                            111
ZIucCkisil                                                          235                  715
Toutoes                                                             326                 M11
starselos                                                                                6I6
ladmAtrial Toutoes                   216         22      366                  355                  615          42
Wile Grape                         3651         252     1656         IlS    1l76          122
FInit Trmee                        136          131     1971         132     1616         132    2671          262
Citrus                   1176          St                          1156                2370
Apples                    731         5S                            746                  505
totul cropped area                13670        935     13915         152    13610         35S   17161        1172
fallos                               736         52      695         5S       716          5t
Total                             14666        1662   14660         1662    14666        166    1466        l66
croppial isteasity                 0.15                 0.35                 0. 5                 1.17
ULLOULA 2011
Wbeat                     366                  361                  366                  456
forage Cros               941                  941                  946                 1350
total croppd area                   1366                1366                 1366                 1l66
FUllo                                56                  511                  561
Totol                               1666                16l6                 166I                 166
croppimg isteasity                  6.72                0.72                 0,72                 1.01
TOTUL PIOJICT IIU
Total croppd area                 1511                15205                15191                I16UI
fallo.                             1236                 1135                 1210
Total Project Area                1614H                16410                16406                16466
croppiug irttinity                 0.93                 0.33                 0.3                 1.15
19135: Istiusted from Doarkiks aid ladjo t SDI data, preparatios sissios



-53 -                             ANNEX 9
ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
YIELDS, WITHOUT AND WITH PROJECT
AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
Without    With
Project   Project
(mt/ha)
Cereals
Wheat, rainfed                      1.5         -
Wheat, irrigated                    -           4
Garden CrODS
Tomatoes, open field               20          25
Tomatoes, greenhouses              60          80
Potatoez, season                   10          25
Potatoes, late                      -          15
Zucchinis                           8          14
Cauliflower                        10          20
Watermelon                          -          30
Industrial Crops
Corn                                -           5.5
Industrial Tomatoes                20         30
Fruit Trees
Citrus, existing plantation1'    10            18
Citrus, new plantation              -          20
Apple Treek'                        4           8
Wine Grape                          5           -
(000 fu/ha)
Forage Crops
Lucerne, 2nd year                   -           7.5
Berseem                             2.5         6
Beet Root                           -           7.5
Rye-grass                           -           6
Green Maize                         5           7
Vetch-Oat, rainfed                  1.5         -
Vetch-Oat, irrigated                -           3
Clover/Fescue Pasture               -           4
a/ Before Project: 12 mt/ha declining to 10 mt/ha without Project
b/ Before Project: 5 at/ha declining to 4 mt/ha without Project



- 54-
ALGERIA                                                   ANNEX 10
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
llPICT   PIODUCTOI MITI AID   ITIOT MJICT
AT ULL DEVILOP1INT
Witkott       Witk
PIoject      ProJect   Increremtal
1913-on      2001-on
PtOJICT ARIt   IICLIDIN  ULLOOLU AI
Wbeat                         at                 6095        10460          4365
Con                                                          11330         11331
Gardes Crops                  It                39050       126355         81315
ladustrial Touatoes           It                7105         18120         11015
Wist Grape                    at                 8500                      -6569
Irnit Trees                   at                14415        49180         34705
forage                        000 fu             4250        16230         11960
Bilk                          006 1              2195        14520         12325
Beef                          It                  185         1295          1110
EALLOOLA AR U
Nheat                         It                  360          765           405
forage                        000 Nu             1125         4840          3715
Milk                          000 1               405         1150           145
Beef                          It                   25           60            55
Hutton                        It                   35           85            50
TOTAL PROJICT AiAl
Wheat                         it                 6455        11225          4170
Corn                           t                             11330         11330
Garden Crops                  it                39050       126355         81305
1indstrial Tomatoes           It                7105         iCITO         11015
Wine Grape                    at                 6500                      -8500
Irnit Trees                   at               14475         49180         34705
forage                        000 ft             5375        21010         15695
Milk                          000 1              2600        15610         130170
Beef                          at                  210         1315          1165
htton                         at                   35           85            50



Increases in Annual Production fro  th  Protect Area
Without        With                                                   Product1in Increase/
Existing       Before       Project at    Project at    Increase         Increase                  Existing Situation.
Situation      Project      full dew.      full  dew.        with/         with/                     as x of natio0na
1927          1909Jj      199-on         2D06f  -on     eastin         before    lzKriner   al      19   Praduct on
Ii)           (2)            43)            14)        (4)-(I)       (4M-42)       (41-43)               (1
Wieat               Mt          6.750           6.350         6.455          11.225          4.475         4.875        4.770             . 
Corn                Mt             --                           -            11.330         11.30         11.330       11.331             n.a.           X
Garden Crops  A/   Mt           15.400         32.650        39.050         126.155        110.9s5        93.705       67.30S             . 4%
Industrial
Tomntoes            Mt          6,360           6.360         7,105          18.120         11.760        11.760       11.0is             * 4S
Wine grape          ut          14.600          1.350         *.500                         14.600       - 0.350      - 8.50s              - 2n
Fruit Trees  hi    at          18.220          1S.?20        14.475          49.10        30.960         30.960       34.705             . 6Z           .e    r .
Forage              0oo fu      4.500           5.930         s.375          21,070        16.570         15.140       1.695             * 2%                  c
Beef                Mt             190            190           210            1.375         1.18S         1.115        1.16S             * 2S C1               "
"utton              at              35             35            3s              S5             so            so           so             n.a.                  >
0
z
A/  Garden crops: potatoes, cauliflower, zucchini, tomatoes. wateraelon.
i/ Fruit trees: citrus and apple. mostly citrus.
0
L.
"I
'.4
en



-5S6 -                         ANNEX 12
ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
COST RECOVERY IN 1987 CONSTANT PRICES
Irrigated Area Halloula Area
Area                                   ha            13984                 1800
Water Consumption                      000cm
Investment Cost Present Worth'         MDA             999                  14
Inv. Cost Annual Financial Eq.b'       MDA             102                   1
Land Betterment Levy, 100I   Recovery  DA/ha          7304                 791
Land Betterment Levy,  252 Recovery  DA/ha            1826                 198
s&M Cost, at full development          MDA              40.9                 0.7
DA/OOOcm     72610      O&M Charge
Volumetric Water Charge,               DA/cm             0.56  DA/ha          0.39
1001 Recovery
a/ Discounted value of the 40 years investment stream (including replacement
of equipment) at 101 base cost + physical contingencies (excluding price
contingencies)
b/ Annual financial equivalent at 10% over 40 years.



- 57 -
ALGERIA                                                   ANNEX 13
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
liII  IICOIII  AO  IICIUIUIL ICI IICOVIRT IIDICIS
iT IFLL DI?LOFNUI
arm Models
!  I      IB        C         D          I         I
fiar Sime                                   ha              25        32        64         64       136         7
habor of Fure                                              158        95        75         16         7       1o
I'M   A)
Gross Valme of Production, sith project                   1541      1721      3161      46HO       6165       II6
ht IcreXmetal leaetit Before Fiuaiciyg                     655      1610      1666      2156       3551       315
1. let lacremental Benefit lidl  Taxes /a                 86U       1261      2150      2522      4276        355
2. Less:
Itputed Value of luaili Labor /b                       243       294        552       S97       621        66
Iaputed Value of lulagenent /c                          66       169        II       215       355         31
Imputed leturs on oan Capital /d                        56        67        201       166       261         19
Aliovance for link /e                                   77        16        153       203       341         34
Iscremestal Geseral TAx /I                              26        42         15        90       144         13
3. gquals: lent/Sarplus /g                                 339       682       976      1256       2348      1o
4. lent as I of Net Incremental Beaefit                  0.42       0.53      0.45      0.56      0.55       0.56
25S Recovery of lIvestment Costs:
5. Tolumetric Water Charges /k                              60        90       151       165        341        25
6. Land Bettersent Levy /A                                  46        56       117       117        237        13
7. Total Direct Charies (5+6)                              126       146       275       262        564        37
10. lent lecovery Index (7:3)                            0.37       0.22      0.26      0.23      0.25      0.19
9. let Increseatal licome lecovery Index (7:1)            0.16      0.12      0.13      0.11      0.14       0.16
full lecovery of lvestment Costs
5. folumetric later Char!4d /b                              6O        90       156       165        347        25
6. Lead Bettersent Le"i /i                                 162       233       466       466        946        51
T. Total Direct Charges (5+6)                              262       322       624       631      1214         75
lOlent lecovery lIdex (7:3)                             0.77       0.47      6O4      0.56      0.55      0.36
9. get lIcresental lcome lecovery ldei (71)            0.32       0,25      0.23      0.25      0.30       0,21
/a let lacremental lenefit Before Financing Excluding later Charges and Beaefit Tales
/b aluved at the market wsage rate of lOIDI/day
/c Valued at 102 of net iAcremental benefit before financing
/d liputed leturn on farmer's assets (102 return according to economic life of assets)
/e Valued at 52 of iscremeetal grosn value of farm productioa
/f 4I of net benefit before financian
/g Gross rest, incremental direct taxes not deducted
/b full lecovery of OJI uad Iquipment leplacemnt
/i 1001 or 252 Recovery of Investamet Costs



- 58 -
ANNEX 14
ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SHADOW PRICE FACTORS OF
OFF-FARM INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works                                1.40
Electrical and Hydromechanic eq.           1.86
Buildings                                  1.19
Vehicles                                   1.13
Heavy Vehicles                             1.50
Equipment misc.                            1.79
Technical Assistance-Training              1.80
Operation and Maintenance
Civil Works                            1.20
Vehicles                               1.00
Heavy Vehicles                         1.50
Skilled Labor                               .90
Unskilled Labor                             .50
Energy                                     2.00



- 59 -
ALGERIA                                                 ANNEX i;
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SELECTED ECOIOPIC *1  FlUCikIL PRICES
ON-FANi 0EV!LOPtENT
OPSINT Im  COSTS                                                !VESTMENT COSTS
Unit financial  Econctic                                         Unit Financial  Econuic
Fertili:ers nchnuzation
TSP j452)                          at        1200       2930      Whel Tractsw,  0-70 ph          'nit      92400    lY9O6O
Ow  (19-4-0)                       it        1450       190       Wohl TrKctof, 100-120 ph    unit    157000    377720
Azua  Nitrate 133.51                at        90        2325      Track Trctor, 50-70 ph          unit    102400    244420
ORK (12-I1-Il)                      at       1340       2300      Co*bine Harventer               unit    191000    571120
OPt (0-20-25)                       at       1370       22t0      Pick-up Truck                   unit       70000      79315
SO"  and Seedlinq                                                 Others
Wbeat                               kg        2.4        5.0      Irrigation Equiweunt               ha      1650       21470
:Maize                              kg        2. '       2.0      Irrigation kcehsory                ha       4500       5910
Oats                                kg        1.b        5.5      Greenhoula                         ha    400000    29000
Vetch Oat                           kg        3.7       1'.7
6renn  aize                         kg        4.9       16.9                        Livstock
8erseno                             kg        8.4       20.9      Building                          sqe       2000       2115
Lucernt                             kq       21.2       73.0      Cowshe                            sq4       2400       2840
Ray grass                           kg        6.2       21.3      Hetier                           head        000      15705
Fescue                              kg          5          5
Clover                              kg        8.4         29
Beet Root                           kg        400        400
Watermelon                          kg         s0        150                                            BENEFITS
Toato                               kg        250       4*0
Cauliflower                         kg        100        185                                    Unit   Financial  Econoeic
zucchini                            kg        5so        275
Potato                              kg       3500       3950                        Cereals
Citrus                           unit        46.5       41.2      Hard  hbeat                        at       2700       2775
aize                              at       2300       1940
mechanization                                                     Fruits and Veqetables
Whel tractor, 50-70 ph               h       19.9       43.5      Potaton season                      t       2400       2630
Wheel Tractor, 100-120 ph            h       35.2       73.7      Potatoe  late                      at       2100       2630
Track Tractor, 50-70 ph              h       22.3       49.5      Tctoes   ow   field               St        2400       t410
Coobine Harveter                     h      277.4      705.0      Toaatoe  gren house                 t       6800       6820
Toaatoes industrial               It       1500       2130
NIscellaaws                                     Cautiflowr                         at       3000       5040
Treatets                        000"         1000       1743      Zucchinis                         at        2600      3V35
Plastic File                        St      1660      14330      Waternilon                         at       3200       4260
Irrigatiso  Water Tubwll        00co        1320        3730      Agpile                            at       7200        6000
Citrus                            et       3400       4345
Livstock                                                          LiVetock
Adult Fei                           at       1790       190       Milk                           000 1        4000       2650
Veal Foed                           it       20'0       2250       efft, fat sters                   et      45000      19755
Aliets dAllaitesent                at       6740       7345      Bet, cull anialms                  It      33000      19755
Artificial Inseination          OOOD        1000       1500      Beef, feaale calve                 at      3400       19755
Veterinary Care                 0001         1000       1340                        Othes
Nine Grape                        It       1100        2715
Fodder                        000 fu       1600        1o00
Manure                            et         50          50
Straw                             at         350        350



- 60 -                                   ANNEX 16
ALGERIA
IJEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Documents in Proiect File
1.     Algerie, Projet de D6veloppement Hydro-Agricole de la Mitidja-Ouest,
Rapport de Preparation, Programme de Cooperation FAO/Banque Mondiale,
Centre d'Investissement, 7 mars 1988.
2.     Reconnaissance of the possible deterioration of the groundwater quality
by irrigation in the West Mitidja plain (Algeria), Keuringsinstituut
voor waterleidingsbedrijven (KIWA), Netherlands, July 1988.
3.     Mitidja West Irrigation Project (Phase II), Preliminary Pest Management
Proposals, N.J. Brown (consultant), July 1988.
4.     Report on a Consultancy Mission on Drainage to the West Mitidja
Project, Algeria, Euroconsult, Arnhem, the Netherlands.
5.     Annexes in Implementation Volume
5.1.   Corrigendum to FAO/WB CP Preparation Report (April, 1988)
5.2.   Detailed Cost Estimates (COSTAB)
5.3.   Le Developpement des Productions Vegetales
5.4.   Financial Analysis
5.5.   Economic Analysis



WEST MITID1A IRRIGATION SCHEME
WATER SUPPLY AND DEMAND
150 _
133
125  -                                   Oued D,s    t     3 20
125~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Boukourdane
Diversion           14
4- Oued ChiNfa -o  WATER DEMAND
75     52         D wsion
50    47
Oued B0u Rouni (Moustckbel)
And
Haote Ditv0n
25
1968  1969   1990  1991   1992  1993  1994  1995  119    11997 119e   19   2000   2001   2002   2O3
Waik ibfr 43426



WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION SCHEME
Implementation Schedule
Yer        1989            1990            1991            1992            1993            1994            1995
Ouarner   1  2  3   4   1  2   3  4   1  2  3   4   1  2  3  4   1  2   3   4   1  2   3  4   1  2  3  4
Preparebion of Bids
Evaluation & Award
Contract Signing                                       _                                                                                       Drainag&Ro
IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                       IrrIga|,  . Irr es
Mobilization                                      '                            L       __ _ -                              I      
Main Conveyors                                          '                                      
GRAVITY AREA
4  S_D(aDho[                             ; §    0t                     ;           -0 -         t       '          
Suclor D (3,255 ha)
Sector E (1,575 ha)
Sector FG (2,197 ha)                                                            -- .                   
PUMPING AREA
Sector A (2,197 ha)I                                                            67    o  :           a
Sector B (2.056 ha)                                                              . _
Sector C (2,704 ha)
Pumping Stations                                     m      - A _ =
DJER DIVERSION                                                         B              m m _  _     -  - -
C
Studies                              _               _   _ m          . m
Bidding Procedures
Implementation                                                                      m   m  m   m  m   m  m  m L         m
BOUKOURDANE DIVERSION
Studies                             m      r    -  _ -
Bidding Procedures
Implementation                                                              m,



WEST MMTDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Ministry of Hydraulics
Organization Chart
OEmw
OTHER DIRECTORATES          NlfaAgcyNaaona Agneny                         NafoniAenW
lot Wdrn       ~lot Dun.      1     IorMnbalaaan
- Planning                               ~~~~~   ~  ~~(ANS)  J  __ _                aid___ _ __ __ _   _  __  __  __  _
CoAopnisaNon                                                                    1-L"  AW
-Tralnng and PAsnech
*Warn Supply and SeweraeWrk                                                                        O&M               AcInftsklabon rmld       Cer" Leve
PralcNon Agsa~it Polubon_                           _     ___                                       _     _
-Panrke and Fwe Proscion
-Foisek
LVW ColawalkM                                         ~~~~~~~~WedtlmU4,         OPIM
I                               -~~~~~~~~fo   LkhUeve
(Alkow)~~~2S



MAP SECTION



Cherarga                                                       ,/       /
$
I  - '       'ti  vALGIERS
C.
A II(   G    R I A 
I Ild                                                                        ouar> fiku |;
l)/lh}                                  I RRIGATION PROJECT~~~~PRJEC '~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~ Prolect LocatlKone
hi II fAd )I 'RI )A\f  T_p_sa
1 i | idl).i
O                                                                                     *        Pumping S0alions             ---    Tunnels~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~liil
ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA
1)/lA'                                                                 IRRIGATION PROJECT
/YVIj/ RION                                                                       Project Location
\\ \ AIOIThJAAWFI
o                                                             'A I               I     Iroposed Projet t:                Existing:
ltourneipa                                                                                                              ___________
_  _                                                       Project Area (Phase I1J                 Milidid Pldin
Milland                                                                                li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~~oukourdane Pipeline  f 13 Other Project AredS
0                                                                                                                    Pumping Stations            ---          Tunne-is
Mtili~~~        -  -  - ~Tunnel                                      Dam I Reservoir
HfARBI I                                                            Under Construc tion:             -        Diversion Weir
1) IN RSION                                                               D  lam / Reservoir          *.-        Roads
Phase I Ared  ~        0      Sele ted Towns and
Phase I Area                ~~~~~Villages
-                                                                      L         1iIK       _                                                                 Ndationdl Capitdl
International lBoundaries
.., .,.,..   ,,.,.  Z r.   { F.  , -  ~ 



A?  e               -
ALGERIA
WEST MITIDJA IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJ ECT AREA
Proposed project.                                EXISTING.
Project area (phase II)                         Main irnigation canals
Major irrigation conveyors                 _    Sector boundaries
~--    Branch pipielines                                 C-ontours in meters
Pumping stations                                 Roads
Reservoirs                                 0    lowns
Under construction:                              Rivers
Phase I area                                     Province boundary
Branch pipelirws                               Intemnational boundaries
S  Nador                                                                       j3C
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t _i)__- 1;4110N  ,2f
siw ('d. *srcin                                            'A 1                            17- |  h " ,7       h                       )}h
S   1    3                      1             Ahmer Et Nn        S   SC    si-
3  \   / )  KIEOMETFRS                                    /
_ - 1s s ,¢. _ _ / zZo Mili fi n jU



