Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 3076 AL
Loan Agreement
(West Mitidja Irrigation Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 5, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3076 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT                     
     AGREEMENT, dated April 5, 1990, between DEMOCRATIC and POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January l, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
Page  2
     (b)  "West Mitidja" means an area covering about 27,500 ha in the western part of 
the Mitidja plain located about 50 km west of Algiers and comprising an irrigation 
scheme to be built by the Borrower;
     (c)  "Project Area" means an area covering about 18,250 ha in West Mitidja and 
comprising the A, B, C, D, E.l and FG Sectors and the Halloula area in West Mitidja;
     (d)  "MH" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for Hydraulics;
     (e)  "MA" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for Agriculture;
     (f)  "AGID" means the Borrower's National Irrigation and Drainage Authority, 
established and operating under the supervisory authority of MH pursuant to Decree No. 
87-181 of August 18, 1987;
     (g)  "ANRH" means the Borrower's National Agency for Water Resources, established 
and operating under the supervisory authority of MH pursuant to Decree No. 81-167 of 
July 25, 1981 as modified by Decree No. 87-129 of May 19, 1987;
     (h)  "INPV" means the Borrower's Institute for Plant Protection established and 
operating under the supervisory authority of MA pursuant to Decree No. 75-11 of 
February 27, 1975;
     (i)  "OPIM" means the Borrower's Irrigation Authority for Mitidja, established 
and operating under the supervisory authority of MH pursuant to Decree No. 85-262 of 
October 29, 1985; and
     (j)  "Project Unit" means the unit established within AGID pursuant to 
Ministerial Arrete No. 37 of December 7, 1988.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred ten million 
dollars ($110,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars in its Central Bank or in a commercial Bank acceptable to the Bank a special 
account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify 
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
Page  3
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On 
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding 
during 
the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such 
Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
     (e)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
interest rate for the Interest Period commencing in the first Semester of 1989 shall 
be seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%). 
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 15 
and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
environmental, administrative, financial, economic and technical practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the purpose.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  4
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
     Section 5.01. In order to facilitate the efficient utilization of water resources 
and proper operation of irrigation infrastructure within the Project Area, the 
Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1990, or such later date as the Borrower 
and the Bank shall agree, through its MH develop and thereafter implement all 
appropriate measures to gradually phase out ground water pumping for irrigation and to 
otherwise minimize the use of ground water for irrigation in each area within the 
Project Area upon the completion of construction within such area of the irrigation 
facilities under Part B of the Project.
     Section 5.02. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain procedures, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to monitor 
continuously the quality of the ground water, and the quality and quantity of waste 
water discharged, in West Mitidja; and 
     (b)  based on the results of such monitoring, take, as necessary, all action 
required to ensure that the presence of pollutants in said ground water shall be 
maintained within levels acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
     Section 5.03. The Borrower shall:
Page  5
     (a)  with the assistance of engineering experts, whose qualifications, experience 
and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, inspect at 
regular intervals the Boukourdane and Bou Roumi dams and their related structures for 
deficiencies in their condition or in the quality and adequacy of their maintenance 
and operations. Such intervals shall not exceed: (i) one year for the Boukourdane dam 
during its three first years of operations and five years
thereafter; and (ii) five years for the Bou Roumi dam.
     (b)  immediately after each such inspection, issue a report thereon, prepared by 
said engineering experts, and promptly take or cause to be taken all remedial action, 
if any, recommended in said report.
     Section 5.04. In order to facilitate through water charges the recovery of 
operation and maintenance cost of irrigation and associated facilities and gradual 
recovery of the investment cost of such facilities, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  apply a binominal tariff structure including a levy based on the nominal 
delivery capacity of the farm turnout and the actual consumption of water as well as a 
fixed levy applied on a per hectare basis in order to recover 100% of the operation 
and maintenance costs at full development and a reasonable portion of investment 
costs;
     (b)  under terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank carry out 
a study to determine the investment, operation, maintenance and replacement costs of 
the Irrigation and associated facilities and assess the share of such costs that 
farmers can reasonably contribute; and
     (c)  not later than December 31, 1991 or such later date as the Borrower and the 
Bank shall agree based on the results of such study and after taking into 
consideration the Bank's comments thereon, prepare and furnish to the Bank an action 
plan of specific measures to adopt the tariff structure referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
     Section 6.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Economy is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Economy
          Immeuble Mauretania
          Place du Perou
          Algiers
          Democratic and Popular Republic
             of Algeria
          Cable address:           
Telex:
 
               FINPLAN                
67073
               Alger
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  6
          United States of America
          Cable address:           
Telex:
 
               INTBAFRAD              
197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                    DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                    By /s/ Abderalman Bensid
Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kermal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Works under       80,000,000
75%
    Parts B.2 and
    B.4 of the
    Project
(2) Goods under       19,000,000
100% of foreign
    Parts B.2,                           
expenditures,
    B.4, C.1 and                         
100% of local
    D of the                             
expenditures
    Project                              
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants'       5,000,000
100%
    services
    and training
    under Parts B
    and D of the
    Project
(4) Unallocated        6,000,000
Page  7
     TOTAL           110,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to improve agricultural productivity, increase 
farmers' income and increase the level of employment within the Project Area through: 
(1) further development of water resources, (2) expansion of irrigated agriculture, 
(3) provision of credit for on-farm irrigation and agricultural development, and (4) 
strengthening of institutional capabilities in the design, construction, operation and 
maintenance of irrigation facilities.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:   Water Resource Development
     (1)  Construction of a pipeline between the Boukourdane reservoir and the Project 
Area including associated facilities for water pumping to supply about 14 million 
cubic meters of water per year for irrigation.
     (2)  Construction of a diversion weir, pumping station and tunnel, to convey 
about 20 million cubic meters of water per year from the pier river to the Bou Roumi 
reservoir.
Part B:   Irrigation Expansion
     (1)  Construction of irrigation facilities, under gravity supply, on about 7,000 
ha.
     (2)  Construction of irrigation facilities under pumping, on about 7,000 ha, 
including two main water conveyors of a combined total length of about 30 km.
     (3)  Construction of drainage and road systems on about 15,800 ha.
     (4)  Construction of housing, offices, workshops and warehouses.
Part C:   On-farm Development
     (1)  Provision of sprinkler and drip irrigation equipment to be sold by OPIM in 
the framework of its activities to farmers for utilization in the carrying out of 
on-farm irrigation develop in West Mitidja.
     (2)  Provision of credit to farmers for the carrying out of on-farm development, 
including for: (i) mobile sprinkler and drip irrigation in West Mitidja, and (ii) 
fruit orchards, greenhouses, windbreaks and farm buildings, machinery and trucks in 
the Project Area.
Part D:   Institutional Strengthening
     (1)  Development and application of suitable policies and procedures for: (a) the 
technical, administrative and financial management, of irrigation and associated 
facilities, and (b) the carrying out of surveys and the establishment of design 
criteria for sub-surface drainage facilities.
     (2)  Carrying out of: (a) a study to develop and implement a plan for 
strengthening the organizational structure of OPIM, including the establishment and 
Page  8
maintenance with adequate resources of separate units: (i) for the operation and 
maintenance of irrigation facilities, (ii) the storage, sale to farmers and after sale 
services of irrigation equipment, (iii) the provision of extension services to farmers 
on the selection of irrigation equipment and on-farm water management, and (iv) the 
monitoring of cropping patterns and efficiency of water use on the farms; (b) a study, 
including a base line environmental pollution survey, to develop and implement a plan, 
including an action program, to protect the ground-water resources of the Project Area 
against environmental pollution; (c) a study to develop and implement a fertilizer and 
pest management plan; and (d) a training program to upgrade the skills of the staff 
involved in the carrying out of the Project.
     (3)  Provision of materials, vehicles and office equipment to be utilized in 
carrying out this Part of the Project.
*   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning December 15, 1994
     through   June 15, 2004                 
5,500,00
 
___________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment            
Premium
 
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    
0.20
     before maturity
Page  9
More than three years                        
0.40
     but not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years                     
0.73
     but not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years                       
0.87
     but not more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                
1.00
     before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A 
hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's territory may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $2,000,000 per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000 may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Office equipment, computers and survey equipment estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $100,000, per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers in accordance with the Borrower's 
procedures compatible with the Guidelines.
3.   Operation and maintenance equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from 
at least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
the Borrower's procedures compatible with the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final Contracts:
     (a)  With respect to (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $2,000,000 or more, (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more, and (iii) each contract for radio-communication and computer 
equipment, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
Page  10
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. 
Section II. Employment of Consultants
     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to: (A) 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, and (B) who shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank on 
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by 
The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
     The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
A.   Overall Project Monitoring and Coordination
1.   The overall responsibility for the monitoring of Project execution, maintenance 
of the accounts relating thereto pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement, reporting 
thereon as required pursuant to Sections 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
preparation of suitable reports on Project execution for the consideration by the Bank 
shall be carried out by AGID in conformity with the objectives of the Project. In 
order to assist AGID in carrying out its responsibilities as outlined above, AGID 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall 
be satisfactory to the Bank and AGID.
2.   The Borrower shall in accordance with its laws and regulations take all necessary 
action to provide for proper coordination of the activities. To this end, the Borrower 
shall ensure coordination:
     (a)  at the central level between the different authorities in charge of 
irrigation and associated activities and of agriculture, including AGID, ANRH and INPV 
for the activities they are respectively entrusted with; and
     (b)  at the local level between the different authorities in charge of irrigation 
and of agriculture, including OPIM and the Project Unit.
B.   Execution of Part A of the Project
     The Borrower shall ensure the provision of an adequate water supply for the 
proper operation of the irrigation facilities under Part B of the Project upon their 
completion. To this end, the Borrower shall cause to be taken all necessary measures 
to complete and set into operation the facilities under subpart A (1) thereof by 
December 31, 1993, or such later date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, and 
subpart A (2) thereof by June 30, 1995, or such later date as the Borrower and the 
Bank shall agree.
C.   Execution of Part B of the Project
     Part B of the Project shall be carried out through AGID in accordance with the 
following.
1.   AGID shall be responsible for the construction of the facilities under Part B of 
the Project and shall maintain at its service an adequate number of duly qualified and 
experienced staff.
2.   In order to enable AGID to properly perform its responsibilities, the Borrower 
Page  11
shall cause AGID to: (a) employ consultants, whose qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to assist the 
Project Unit in such performance; (b) carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Borrower and the Bank, the training program referred to under Part D (2) (d) of 
the Project; and (c) provide the Project Unit with the necessary vehicles and 
equipment to be utilized in the carrying out of its activities.
3.   The sub-drainage facilities under Part B of the Project shall be constructed on 
the basis of detailed surveys undertaken by ANRH.
4.   In order to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of the irrigation 
infrastructure under the Project, AGID shall:
     (a)  develop an operation and maintenance manual for the part of West Mitidja in 
operation and, not later than December 31, 1991, or such later date as the Borrower 
and the Bank shall agree, furnish to the Bank for review and comments a draft of such 
manual; and
     (b)  not later than June 30, 1995, or such later date as the Borrower and the 
Bank shall agree, finalize such manual taking into consideration the Bank's comments
thereon.
D.   Execution of Part C of the Project
     Part C (1) of the Project shall be carried out through OPIM and Part C (2) of the 
Project shall be carried out through banking institutions of the Borrower. The 
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the following:
1.   OPIM shall procure the sprinkler and drip irrigation equipment under Part C (1) 
of the Project with the assistance of AGID. Thereafter, the storage, sale to farmers 
and after sale services of the equipment to be so procured shall be carried out by 
OPlM through the separate units referred to in Part D (2) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement in accordance with OPIM's applicable policies and procedures and with the 
assistance of the consultants referred to in paragraph E.l of this Schedule.
2.   The provision of credit to farmers within the Project Area for the carrying out 
of on-farm irrigation and agricultural development under Part C (2) of the Project 
will be provided through the banking institutions as part of their normal operations 
within the Project Area.
E.   Execution of Part D of the Project
     Under the coordination of AGID, Parts D (1) (a) and D (2) (a) of the Project 
shall be carried out through OPIM, Parts D (1) (b) and D (2) (b) of the Project shall 
be carried out through ANRH and Part D (2) (c) shall be carried out through INPV in 
accordance with the following:
1.   In order to assist OPIM in carrying out Parts D (1) (a) and D (2) (a) of the 
Project, ANRH in carrying out Parts D (1) (b) and D (2) (b) of the Project, and INPV 
in carrying out Part D (2) (c), the AGID shall: 
     (a)  employ consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
     (b)  carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank, a training program to upgrade the skills of the staff in charge of the Project 
execution; and
     (c)  ensure the provision of vehicles and equipment as required for the proper 
carrying out of their respective tasks by the staff in charge of Project execution 
under the above specified Parts of the Project.
2.   AGID shall take all necessary action on its part to ensure that the studies under 
Part D (2) of the Project, including the plans to be developed thereunder, shall be 
completed, under terms of reference satisfactory to AGID and the Bank, and copies 
thereof furnished to the Bank for its review and comments by: (a) December 31, 1991, 
or such later date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, in respect of the study 
under Part D (2) (a) of the Project; (b) December 31, 1992, or such later date as the 
Borrower and the Bank shall agree, in respect of the study under Part D (2) (b) of the 
Project, and (c) June 30, 1992, or such later date as the Borrower and the Bank shall 
agree, in respect of the study under Part D (2) (c) of the Project.
Page  12
3.   The Borrower shall, after taking into consideration the Bank's comments on the 
matter, adopt and carry out in accordance with its laws and regulations: (a) by 
December 31, 1992 or such later date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, the 
plan developed under Part D (2) (a) of the Project for strengthening the  
organizational structure of OPIM, including the establishment of the separate units 
referred to under said Part of the Project; (b) December 31, 1993, or such later date 
as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, the plan developed under Part D (2) (b) of 
the Project for the utilization of water resources in accordance with appropriate 
environmental standards; and (c) June 30, 1994, or such later date as the Borrower and 
the Bank shall agree, the fertilizer and pest management plan developed under Part D 
(2) (c) of the Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
     (b) (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
        (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been made out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
Page  13
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
     (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
