Domeo of
The World Bank
FOR oMciL USE ONLY
i82)q/- tk'
Report No. P-4356-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TIEE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt25.O MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 23, 1986
t This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrance
of their official duties. Ils contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985          Mat 1986
Currency Unit       -    Naira (N)           Naira (N)
US$1                -    NO.89               N1.02
Ni                  -   .US$1.12             US$0.98
(Exchange rate used in this Report: Ni - US$1.00)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Uziless otherwise stated, all weights and moasures used in this
report are metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)   -   2205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)         =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)       =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)            -   3.28 feet (ft)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRO'YMS
ADP       -    Agricultural Development Project
APMEPU    -    Agricultural Project Monitoring Evaluation and Planning Unit
ARNTI     -   Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
ATAP      -    Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
BADPEC    -    Borno Agricultural Development Program Executive Committee
BOADAP    -    Borno Accelerated Development Area Program
BSG       -    Borno State Government
CBN       -    Central Bank of Nigeria
FACU      -    Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FARA      -    Federal Agricultural Recruitment Agency
FMAWRRD   -    Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural
Deveopment
FMG       -    Federal Military Government
LGA       -    Local Government Authority
MANR      -   Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (Borno State)
PADAC     -   Project Agricultural Development Advisory Committee
PFT       -    Project Facilitation Team
PY        -    Project Year
SBADP     -    Southern Borno Agricultural Development Project
SBADPEC   -    Southern Borno Agricultural Development Project Executive
Committee
SBADPMU   -    Southern Borno Agricultural Development Project Management
Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -    December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Beneficiaries:           Borno State Government (BSG) and Federal Ministry of
Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Development
(FAWRRD).
Loan Amount:             US$25.0 million (mn) equivalent.
Terms:                   Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:         The Federal Government would on-lend on the same
terms and conditions, US$22.5 mn to Borno State
Government, which would carry the foreign exchange
risk for this on-lending.
Project
Description:             The project would support the efforts of Borno State
Government to provide improved services to the rural
population in the better endowed southern third of
the State. It would aim to improve the supply of
agricultural inputs, strengthen the extension service
and develop small-scale irrigation as a means to
increasing farm incomes and crop output. It would
support local communities in rendering up to 1,000 km
of farm access tracks passable for an increased
proportion of the year to improve crop marketing.
Some 135 km of new tracks would be constructed to
open up areas with irrigation potential. It would
assist rural communities to develop better domestic
water supplies through the provision of materials and
skilled artisans to line hand dug wells. Project
management would assist with the development of a
more coherent long term organization for state
agricultural services during the course of the
project.
At the federal level, the project would support the
Government in planning and implementing irrigation
studies and the preparation of investment for
irrigation projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local         Foreign          Total
--US$ Hillion-
Southern Borno Component
Technical Services                     1.6              1.3            2.9
Farm Inputs                            1.9             5.8             7.7
Roads                                  2.0              2.8            4.8
Water Supply                           2.6              1.4            4.0
Worksbops and Buildings                1.0              1.2            2.2
Management                             2.4              1.9            4.3
Total Base Costs - SBADP        11.5             14.4            25.9
Physical Contingencies           0.6              1.0             1.6
Price Contingencies              6.3              3.0             9.3
Total Project Costs - SBADP    18.4              18.4            36.8
Federal Component                      0.6              1.9            2.5
Total Project Costs             19.0             20.3            39.3 a/
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                   5.3            19.7            25.0
Federal Government                     7.9             0.6 b/          8.5
Borno State Government                 5.8                             5.8
Total                            19.0            20.3            39.3
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year              1987    1988    1989   1990    1991    1992
Annual                         0.6      2.2     4.3    5.7      6.8     5.4
Cumulative                     0.6      2.8     7.1   12.8    19.6    25.0
a/   Of which US$1.4 mn in duties and taxes.
b/   Represents foreign exchange element of fertilizer procured by FMG and
which is partly financed under the Fertilizer Import Loan (2345-UNI).



- iii -
Benefits            Prolect agricultural initiatives are expected to increase
and Risks:        food output and to open new possibilities for long-term
increases in production through the expansion of
small-scale low cost irrigation. The infrastructure
development would not only improve access and water
supplies to rural communities, but would provide also a
lead in developing lower cost alternatives to existing
services. The project is designed to develop approaches
to servicing farmers which would be more closely aligned
to the stringent situation now prevailing in the country.
The main risks of the project are: (i) the ability of the
Federal and Borno State Governments to provide adequate
funding; (ii) inadequate utilization or exclusion of
private traders affecting availability and distribution of
fertilizer and other farm inputs; (iii) delay in the
appointment of key staff; (iv) lower than anticipated
farmer response to project services; and (v) adverse
effects of price distortions emanating from the Federal
Militarv Government (FMG) trade policy. Project design
takes into account experience with earlier ADPs in order
to contain these risks and minimize the annual funding
requirement of the Federal and State Governments.
Rate of Return:     16 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5933-UNI dated June 23, 1986.
Map:      IBRD No. 15065R9



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOTMEhim PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$25.0
million to help finance a project for agricultural development in the
southern part of Borno State of Nigeria. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable rate. The
Federal Government would on-lend US$22.5 million to the Borno State
Government on the same terms as the Bank loan. The Borno State Government
would carry the foreign exchange risk for this on-lending.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The assessment of the Nigerian economic situation in this report
is based on the findings of economic missions that visited Nigeria in
November 1984 and in March/April 1985 for economic updating and policy
dialogue, supplemented by reviews of the 1986 budget and of other recent
policy initiatives of the Federal Government. Annex I presents selected
social and economic indicators for Nigeria.
Macroeconomic Developments
3.        Structural Legacy of the Oil Boom (1973-80).  The buoyant oil
market over the 1973-80 period dramaticallv altered Nigeria's resource
position. During this time the main objective of the Government was to
translate the large oil revenues into investments in social, economic and
physical infrastructure. While there were successes - a large functional
network of interstate roads was established, power generating capacity
tripled, primary school enrollment ratio doubled - the politiLcal and
administrative systems at federal and state levels were not adequately
equipped to handle the new-found wealth. Uneconomic investments were
prevalent, while the policies pursued led to structural changes which left
the economy with substantial price and other distortions and with great
vulnerability to external shocks.
1/ This section is unchanged from Part I of President's Report No.
P-4339-UNI dated June 5, 1986, for the Multi-State Agricultural
Development Project.



-2-
4.        The economy became almost completely dependent on the oil sector:
by the beginning of the 1980s, oil earnings accounted for 96 percent of
exports and over 80 percent of Federal Government revenues. The economy
soon began to exhibit the usual features of the "oil syndrome": booming
oil revenues, an appreciating currency, and domestic irflation, with the
consequent shift in the structure of production away from non-oil traded
goods, the increased dependence on imports, and growth of the public
sector. The impact on the agricultural sector - the major source of GDP
and exports before the oil boom -- was particularly severe: by 1980 its
share of non-oil GDP had fallen to 30 percent, from around 50 percent in
the early 1970s. Exports of palm products and groundnuts (of which Nigeria
was the world's largest exporter) had virtually disappeared. In addition,
the overvalued exchange rate, combined with the structure of trade taxes
and controls, encouraged the growth of import-based light consumer goods
industries which contributed little to value added. Thus, by 1980 imports
had reached a level of 24 percent of GDP, nearly double the percentage
prevailing in the immediate pre-boom years.
5.        The public sector grew in size and importance.  Nigeria entered
the 1980s with around half of its GDP and two-thirds of its modern sector
employment accounted for by the public sector. Government recurrent
expenditures had risen to 11 percent and public investment to 15 percent of
GDP, the latter accounting for over half of total investment. A large part
of the recurrent expenditures supported a much increased civil service.
Many of the public investment projects were undertaken without sufficient
attention to their viability, the appropriateness of their design and the
implementation capacity of the Government agencies. By the beginning of
the 1980s, there were around 70 non-commercial and 110 commercial federal
public enterprises, many of which require extensive financial support to
cover operating losses.
6.        The Economic Crisis (1981-85).  Nigeria was ill-equipped
politically, administratively and structurally to deal with the abrupt end
of the oil boom in 1981. Partly because of expectations that the downturn
would be short-lived, the Federal and State Governments reacted only slowly
to the falling oil revenues: measures aimed at curbing and redirecting
expenditures were insufficient. Consequently, sizeable external and fiscal
imbalances emerged; external reserves fell and at the same time there was a
large-scale accumulation of arrears on top of substantial public borrowings
to finance the investment programs.
7.        Through the predominant use of demand management policies,
involving large expenditure cuts and the application of import controls,
the two successive military Governments 1/ reduced the budget deficit to
GDP ratio from 10 percent in 1983 to 5 percent in 1985 and the external
account deficit to GDP ratio from 5 percent to a slight surplus. However,
no significant steps were taken to reduce the misalignment of relative
1/   The military govenrment which took over in August 1985 replaced one which
had come to power at the end of 1983.



-3-
prices, the administrative controls and the public sector inefficiencies.
The naira continued to appreciate in 1984 (although there was some real
depreciation in 1985). Sectoral ceilings for credit allocations by banks
were enforced and interest rates were at levels resulting in negative real
yields (although this has been reversed in the past year). While actions
were taken to improve the system of trade taxes, continued price and other
trade interventions served to reinforce distorted signals. Moreover,
fiscal austerity was characterized by expenditure constraints without
sufficient regard to necessary expenditure reallocations:  public
investment cutbacks proceeded across the board without adequate cognizance
of priorities and stage of completion. Outlays on supplies, spare parts
and routine maintenance were eroded. Significant sums were set aside to
support operating deficits of inefficient parastatals and to provide heavy
subsidies.
8.        In essence, the structure of the economy inherited from the oil
boom remained largely intact and this, combined with the sharp
deterioration in the terms of trade, resulted in poor economic performance
over the 1981-85 period. Production and employment in all sectors -
except agricultural production for the domestic market - remained
depressed, with real GDP in 1985 being some 15 percent lower than at the
beginning of the 1980s, even after allowing for the slight upturn estimated
for 1985 as a result of increased oil production and improved harvests.
Construction and other service sectors were hard hit by the diminished
public expenditures and declined at a faster rate than GDP. The much
reduced supplies of raw materials and spare parts to the import-dependent
industrial sector led to widespread plant closures, a substantial drop in
capacity utilization (to about 25 to 35 percent) and extensive layoffs of
the workforce. Severe shortages of goods boosted the inflation rate -
peaking at around 40 percent in 1984 but receding substantially thereafter
- with scarcity rents of up to 400 percent for many essential goods
accruing to traders who, unlike manufacturers, were not subject to price
controls. The population growth rate of an estimated 3.3 percent per annum
led to significant declines in per capita real income and consumption; in
1985 these were well below the levels recorded in the pre-oil boom 1970s.
9.        National savings halved in real terms due to the decline in both
GDP and terms of trade, with the savings ratio in 1985 being around
17 percent of GDP. As a result, the reduction in investment expenditures
was substantial:  investment fell to under 14 percent of GDP in 1985, half
the peak level of 1981.  The across-the-board public expenditure cutbacks
meant further delays in completing viable projects, thus escalating their
costs and depriving the economy of their benefits. Private investment
shrank at twice the rate of public investment and by 1985 constituted only
a quarter of the total.
10.       Meanwhile, external debt service requirements increased to
40 percent of exports and continue to accelerate. The external debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1985 of US$19.4 billion included an
estimated US$11.9 billion of medium and long-term public debt and trade
arrears of between US$5 and US$6 billion, of which US$1.3 billion has so
far been rescheduled. Paris and London Club creditors each account for
around one-third. There are also short-term external debts estimated at



-4-
around US$1 billion and private external debts of a further estimated
US$1 billion. The severity of Nigeria's debt situation relates not so much
to the total stock of debt (which in 1985 amounted to around 140 percent of
annual exports compared with the 255 percent average of all middle-income
heavily indebted countries) but to the "hump" of debt repayments becoming
due in the period 1986-89, combined with the poor short-term outlook for
the oil market.
Adjustment Policy Issues and Recent Initiatives
11.       The Nigerian economy, already beset by financial imbalances and
structural weaknesses, was dealt another blow by the further sharp decline
in oil prices in the first quarter of 1986. Given the inadequate policies
of the past, this shock cannot be absorbed in a single year, nor by Nigeria
alone, at least during the next few years when the "hump" of debt
repayments becomes due. However, even though financial support from the
international community is needed to ease the burden imposed bv the
unfavorable debt repayment profile, it is imperative that appropriate
policies be adopted now in order to improve the ability of the economy to
cope with such external shocks, as well as with the effect of declining oil
reserves in the medium term. Such policies should shift the structure of
production towards efficient non-oil traded goods sectors, reduce the
import dependence of the economy and widen its resource base, and lessen
the dominance of the public sector and enhance the role of the private
sector.
12.       Recent Initiatives.  The previous military government had
committed itself to rectifying Nigeria's economic problems through
austerity alone, but the new government, which came into power in August
1985, declared its intent to move from austerity alone to austerity with
structural adjustment.  Thus, even though there were in 1985 some positive
effects of the improved fiscal policies (e.g. the decline in the inflation
rate), the major improvement in policies geared towards further
stabilization as well as structural adjustment came with the 1986 budget
statements, and in subsequent initiatives. These make significant progress
in energy pricing and a good start on exchange rate, public expenditure and
parastatal reforms. The key reforms which have now been implemented
include: the introduction of an across-the-board temporary import
surcharge of 30 percent, to serve as an implicit devaluation on the import
side;   the reactivation of the customs tariff drawback scheme to boost
further non-oil exports, and the raising of the foreign exchange retention
allowance of non-oil exporters from 10 to 25 percent; the removal of the
financial subsidy on energy products, which increased the prices of petrol
about 100 percent, diesel 170 percent, and fuel oil 250 percent (kerosene
prices were left unchanged); and a commitment to phase out the fertilizer
subsidy by 1989. The credit allocation system was simplified by reducing
the number of sectors with ceilings on bank lending. Finally, substantial
reductions were made in the salaries and fringe benefits of civil servants
and the freeze on hiring staff in a wide range of positions continued.
13.       In addition, the Government has announced that it intends to open
up a second-tier market for foreign exchange; this could be the first step
in moving towards an appropriate exchange rate. It h;:s also announced its



intention to adopt further measures in the area of public resource
management policies: transfers to commercial parastatals are to be cut to
50 percent of their 1985 levels and the Government intends to divest itself
of public holdings in commernially-oriented enterprises and to entrust to
the private sector the procurement and distribution of fertilizers and
other agriculltural inputs. The budget incorporated additional measures for
financial stabilization (based on oil prices of US$25 per barrel) which, if
carried out in full, would bring the federal budget deficit down to only
2 percent of GDP in 1986; however, given the fall in oil prices, the budget
will have to be adjusted tor the deficit to be contained at that level.
14.       Many of the above measures are in line with recommendations made
earlier by the Bank in discussions with Nigerian officials. However, they
still fall short of the requirements for a viable structural adjustment
effort, with the lack of significant direct action on the exchange rate and
on import liberalization being the major shortcomings. The priorities for
further policy reforms would be: (i) correcting relative prices through
exchange rate adjustment, import liberalization and dismantling price
controls; (ii) overcoming the considerable public sector inefficiencies
through improved public expenditure programs and the speedy rationalization
of the parastatal sector; and (iii) reducing the severe imperfections in
the financial system, and maintaining appropriate interest rates. Tight
discipline on monetary expansion would have to be maintained with the
Government continuing to place strict constraints on the budget deficit.
While improved revenue measures should be pursued, these should not be seen
as a substitute for a slimmer bureaucracy and the privatization of public
commercial activities. In addition, special focus should be placed on the
removal of technological and supply constraints discouraging private
initiative and inhibiting efficient responses to favorable market
conditions. While the basic exchange rate, trade, incentive and financial
policy reforms will be crucial in this regard, constraints may exist at the
sectoral level (e.g. specific infrastructural deficiencies, lack of
particular skills) on which action must be taken to ensure the desirable
responses to the improved price signals.
15.       Prospects and Financing of Development.  As noted above, the
severity of Nigeria's debt situation, which has been made considerably
worse by the sharp fall in oil prices in the first quarter of 1986, relates
not so much to the size of the debt overhang, but to the unfavorable
payments profile and poor immediate outlook for oil: the "hump" of debt
repayments becoming due in the period 1986-89 coincides with the drop in
oil prices. The projected improvement in both factors in the early 1990s
will mean a sharp improvement in debt-service ratios. For 1986, however,
the debt-service ratio (on current estimates of debt) has shot up to an
unsustainable level of 64 percent, assuming oil prices remain at about
US$15/barrel for the rest of the year. While the country could easily
cover the interest payments on the debt (which constitute 17 percent of
exports), it is clear that, even if the oil market recovers, Nigeria will
need a very substantial reform and refinancing package to tide it over the
difficult years ahead. In the absence of such policy reforms Nigeria's
creditworthiness would be limited, and it would thus be necessary to
re-examine the level of Bank lending, constraining it to the sectors of



longer-term impact which are relatively immune to the systam of price
incentives.
16.       However, the Government realizes the urgency of the situation and
has asked the Bank to assist it in putting together a medium-term policy
reform and financing package which would be submitted to its financial
partners for their support during the very difficult adjustment period.
This package would aim at a fundamental restructuring of the economy,
together with an orderly reduction of debt-service ratios. This would
smooth out the payments profile between the late 1980s and early 1990s and
allow a modest increase in imports from their drastically low current
level, while at the same time building in mechanisms to cope with
uncertainties in oil revenues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1986 amounted to
US$2,760.2 million (net of cancellations). 2/ The amount of loans and
credits disbursed as of March 31, 1986 was US$1,710.4 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,049.8 million. Agriculture accounts for about
43 percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water supply
together for about 35 percent; and education, industry, urban, health, and
the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining 22 percent. There have
been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, totalling US$35.3 million; both are
fully disbursed. IFC has made six loans to borrowers totalling
US$25.0 million, and six equity investments totalling US$4.5 million. Of
these amounts, US$6.3 million have been repaid, terminated, cancelled, or
sold. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits,
and IFC investments.
18.       As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil, public
revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run
into serious counterpart funding problems. The Bank, the Federal
Government, and the relevant State Governments are making concerted efforts
to alleviate the situation. To speed up disbursements, the Bank
reallocated the proceeds of several loans and increased disbursement
percentages. Working within very severe and continuing resource
constraints, the Federal and the State Governments are instilling a greater
degree of discipline in their budgeting process and cutting back on new
capital expenditure in order to fund existing obligations.
1/ This section is unchanged from Part II of President's Report No.
P-4339-UNI dated June 5, 1986, for the Multi-State Agricultural
Development Project.
2/ Including a US$5.0 million loan for an Industry Technical Assistance
Project which has not yet been assigned.



19.       A number of important policv changes were announced in the 1986
budget speech. Provided these and other appropriate policy changes are
undertaken, the Bank's lending program would aim primarily at the urgent
diversification of Nigeria's economy to reduce its excessive dependence on
petroleum as a source or foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the same
time, the Bank would continue to support efforts to raise the productivity
of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute
poverty in Nigeria. As in recent years, the Bank would continue to provide
support for agriculture and rural development with emphasis on
institution-building and transfer of technology, in order to raise the
standard of living of its population, particularly the rural poor. The
Bank would similarly support efforts to stimulate trade liberalization,
including a well-balanced and integrated development of Nigeria's
industrial sector focusing on import substitution and in the longer run, on
non-oil exports. This approach would entail a combination of intensive
sector work and policy dialogue with the Government, as well as Bank
assistance for industrial projects in crucial subsectors.
20.       Projects in the agriculture, water supply and urban sectors
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming two
to three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will
also require strategic investment in production-related irfrastructure.
There are good opportunities for the Bank to make a significant
contribution in energy development and highway maintenance, made possible
by Government decision in January 1986 to substantially increase petroleum
product prices. Similarly, there is a strong case for continued lending to
education. In this context, vocational, technical, and teacher training
would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the
Federal and State Governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to
the social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of
rapid urbanization will continue to be addressed through a number of urban
development projects focussed on the needs of the urban poor and resource
mobilization for urban areas. The Bank is also assisting the Government in
tackling the country's health problems with a project aimed at both federal
and state (Sokoto) levels, and is continuing a dialogue with the Government
on population issues, perhaps leading to lending in this area.
21.       Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million
in FY78 to nearly US$199 million in FY85, Nigeria's disbursement
performance has lagged behind that of other countries in the region. The
undisbursed balance now stands at 38 percent of some US$2.8 billion in
loans and credits approved. One of the reasons for this development is the
rapid expansion of the Bank's loan portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact
that the closing dates for a number of large loans, with relatively large,
planned disbursements during the early years, were extended during this
period, mainly for agricultural projects. In many cases, disbursements
have been slowed by long delays in loan effectiveness and institutional and
management problems. Recently, the inadequate counterpart funding of
projects by the Federal and State Governments, resulting from lower oil
revenues, has further slowed disbursements. The Federal Government, with
the assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now carefully monitoring
loan disbursements with a view to identifying problems early and taking
corrective action. Also, the Bank has taken a series of measures aimed at



- 8 -
accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and new projects (para. 18).
These efforts are showing results.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Background
22.       Agriculture continues to be the leading non-oil sector in
Nigeria, directly supporting about 60 percent of the population, pruviding
26 percent of GDP, 5 percent of total exports, and 98 percent of non-oil
exports. Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of
smallholders; the typical unit is a family of about 7 people farming about
2-4 hectares (ha). Less than one percent of the total cropped area is
covered by assured irrigation; as a result, traditional rainfed cropping
systems dominate agriculture. The use of modern inputs, such as fertil-
izer, improved seeds, and mechanized techniques, has expanded in recent
years and contributed to the growth in food crop production. The rapid
rise in the urban population has provided a ready market for local food
crops and the production of these is now a major source of cash for farming
families. At the same time, there has been a fall in the output of
traditional ekport crops largely due to the over-valuation of the Naira.
23.       The farming community has shown remarkable resilience in the face
of adverse macrn economic policies, and latest Bank estimates indicate that
food production has more or less kept pace with population growth (about
2.7 percent per annum) over the past fifteen years. This indicates that
production per farming family has increased, as a growing proportion of the
population has left the agricultural sector. However, the overall deman-d
for staple food probably grew at about 2.9 percent per annum and part of
this growth was met by imports. Agricultural imports have either been of
"luxury" foodstuffs (dairy products, processed foods) or of wheat and rice
to meet a growing urban demand for alternative starch stapJes to those
locally produced (sorghum, millet, cassava, yams). Significant quantities
of maize have been imported for the poultry industry. The recent curb on
such imports has led to a rise in local prices to farmers and an upward
surge in food crop production.
Government Strategy
24.       The Federal Military Government's (FMG) major concern is to
prepare the economy for the post-oil era by developing a viable agriculture
sector, and reducing Nigeria's overwhelming dependence on the petroleum
sector. Nigeria's agricultural goals are stated in the Fourth National
Development Plan (1981-85) and are essentially the same as those in the
Third Plan (1975-80). Both Plans have emphasized the following objectives:
achieving food self sufficiency and higher nutritional levels; promoting
export crops; generating agricultural employment; increasing the supply of
raw materials for domestic industry; strengthening the institutional
framework; and improving rural incomes and living conditions.
25.       Influenced by a significant reduction in petroleum revenue, there
has been a substantial change in government strategies for achieving these



- 9 -
goals. The strong emphasis on capital intensive, high cost, large-scale
irrigation schemes and state-run mechanized farms has given way to an
increased emphasis on supporting smallholder production for both the
rainfed and irrigated sectors.
Sector Constraints
26.       Technical Factors.  The steady growth in agricultural production
from an expanding number of farming families has been achieved by extending
the area under cultivation. While further expansion is possible in parts
of the country, elsewhere pressure is growing to intensify production per
unit area. In the northern half of the country with its low and erratic
rainfall this transformation is hampered by a lack of economically and
managerially attractive technical innovations for the dominant crops
(sorghum and millet) and a lack of experience with minor irrigation systems
outside the tiny enclaves of specialist vegetable production. The
maintenance of soil fertility under continuous annual cultivation provides
an unfamiliar challenge to many farmers who have relied on bush fallowing
in the past, and economically viable alternatives are not yet universally
available. The national research system has serious weaknesses and
internationally funded research has yet to produce significant results for
the major crops of the semi-arid zone. The Bank has offered to work with
Nigeria to address this problem.
27.       Supply Factors.  Intensification of crop production requires the
use of a wide range of purchased inputs, particularly fertilizers,
insecticides and herbicides. Until recently, successive federal
governments have retained a monopoly over fertilizer supply and
distribution, which has resulted in restricted availability and therefore a
failure to fully exploit demand and its potential. Recently, however,
availability has significantly improved as a result of a Bank financed
Fertilizer Import Project (Loan 2345-UNI). Furthermore, FMG has agreed to
commercialize fertilizer distribution through private wholesalers and
retailers and to eliminate financial subsidies by 1989 - which in 1983 were
as high as 85 percent. The private sector has been responsible for
handling a range of other chemicals, but their supply has been severely
limited in recent years by a shorrage of foreign exchange allocation to
cover import licences. This has resulted in farmers having to pay scarcity
inflated prices for the little that does become available.
28.       Institutional and Budgetary Factors.  Tne allocation of
responsibilities for supplying services to farmers is not clearly defined.
The Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Development
(FMAWRRD), State Ministries of Agriculture, Local Government Authorities
(LGA), and a number of Agricultural Development Projects (ADP) and
Accelerated Development Area Programs (ADAP) all employ staff who often
have overlapping functions. This situation is compounded by increasingly
severe budgetary constraints (Federal and state) resulting from
significantly reduced revenues, and a failure to adjust to the overstaffing
following the rarid expansion of payrolls during the period of financial
abundance. There is an acute shortage of operating funds, staff morale is
low and work programs are poorly focussed. The Federal Government is
addressing the institutional issue but a decision on spheres of influence



- 10 -
has yet to be made. Federal and state governments are beginning to face up
to the need to reduce payroll numbers and to use more funds for operating
expenditures. Staff retrenchment, however, is a highly sensitive issue,
and while some progress has been achieved, many ministries, including
agriculture remain overstaffed.
The Bank's Role
29.       Agriculture has formed the core (43%) of the Bank's lending to
Nigeria, and the Bank has made 25 loans totalling more than US$1.25 billion
to date (net of cancellations) to support projects covering rural
development, tree crop, forestry, and livestock development, technical
assistance, and management training. The main objectives of Bank
assistance have been increased food production and rural incomes; higher
standards of living and strengthening state and federal institutions
responsible for preparing, appraising and implementing rural development
programs. At the state level, the Bank has committed loans totalling
US$785 mn for thirteen agricultural development projects (ADP) with a total
project cost of US$2.2 billion. At the Federal level, three Bank-assisted
projects are ongoing: (i) the Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
(ATAP) funds the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) and the
Agricultural Project Monitoring Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU) which
are designed to strengthen the Federal Government's ability to prepare,
appraise, and supervise projects (including monitoring and evaluation);
(ii) the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Project which has
established an institute (ARMTI) for providing management training to
project staff; and (iii) a fertilizer loan which provides assistance for
the import of fertilizer and should lead to (a) progressive
commercialization of the distribution system; and (b) elimination of the
financial subsidy by 1989. In addition, the first phase multi-state
agricultural development project and the second Livestock project are
scheduled for Board presentation on June 26, 1986 and July 8, 1986.
respectively. Also, a second forestry project has been negotiated and is
now awaiting goverrment approval.
Lessons from Related Bank Funded ADPs.
30.       The proposed project has been influenced by four substantive
lessons learned from completed and ongoing ADPs in northern Nigeria.
First, the difficulty of increasing production from the dominant crop mixes
of the area (sorghum, millet and cowpeas) resulting in projects failing to
achieve their crop production targets by a wide margin. The current
proposals are based on more modest objectives. Second, the main areas of
positive intervention are with the non-traditional crops, particularly
maize and pure stand cowpeas and the development of small-scale irrigation.
The proposed project has paid particular attention to these. Third, Local
Government Authority (LGAs), which were responsible for maintaining roads
constructed under other ADPs have been shown to have inadequate resources
for this task. This project, therefore, focusses attention on helping to
maintain these local roads. Fourth, state governments' expected
contributions to project costs have generally proved to be greater than
their available resources, resulting in serious financing problems for
project management. The current proposals are based on carefully updated



- 11 -
assumptions as to the likely state government al3ocations to the
agriculture sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project originated in a request from the Federal Government
of Nigeria for the Bank to support an Agricultural Development Project
(ADP) in Borno State similar to other existing ADPs in northern Nigeria. A
project was identified by a Bank Agricultural Sector Review Mission in
early 1978. A feasibility study for a statewide project was completed by
consultants under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture in
January 1981. In view of the low agricultural potential of northern arid
areas, the Bank and Borno State Government (BSG) agreed that Bank support
would be limited to an ADP covering the southern part of the State. An ADP
was appraised by the Bank in February 1982, and a loan negotiated in
December 1983. A change of government and a moratorium by the Federal
Military Government (FMG) on new borrowing resulted in a delay of 18 months
before FMG finally ratified the application for the proposed loan. During
this period, the ongoing ADPs in neighboring states were facing severe
problems of local financing and in achieving their crop production targets.
Consequently, it was decided to review the original proposals in the light
of existing project experience. This report is the result of a mission
which visited Borno State in September 1985 to reappraise and as
appropriate modify the former proposals. The revised project adopts more
modest crop production targets, a lower standard of infrastructure,
reducing the project costs to US$39.3 million compared to the original
US$117.0 million. The project was originally negotiated with Nigerian
authorities in Washington, D.C. on December 2, 1983. The revisions to the
project were discussed in Washington, D.C. on February 10, 1986. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5933-UNI) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Bank Role
32.       The project has four main objectives: (i) increase farm incomes
and agricultural production through the improved supply of inputs and
information to farmers; (ii) investigate the potential for further develop-
ing small-scale irrigation in underutilized flood plains; (iii) pioneer
(for Nigeria) approaches to rural infrastructural development which depend
on community participation rather than public service maintenance; and
(iv) develop a pattern of rural services which are more closely aligned to
forseeable budgetary allocations than those that now exist in the State.
33.       In recent years several state institutions have been developed to
service farmers and, as in the recently negotiated Multi-State Agricultural
Development Project (MSADP) for the southern and central states, the
project would assist to unify these services in Borno State. The project
would also reorient development to low cost community based infrastructure
and small-scale irrigation at a time when local funding resources of
incremental expenditure are severely constrained and external assistance is
needed. The Bank has assisted with fertilizer imports (Loan 2345-UNI) and



- 12 -
other farm input imports under the ADP loans and would continue such
support by financing non-fertilizer inputs for the whole of Borno State.
Project Area
34.       The project area covers the southern part of Borno State and
includes two major ecological zones (IBRD map 16447R): a northern zone
with an annual rainfall of approximately 700 mm, which confines cropping to
sorghum and millet with limited scope for significant change using existing
technology; and southern zone where rainfall increases to 1,000 mm and a
wider range of crops, including maize, can be grown. The southern zone is
thinly populated and apart from isolated pockets of fertile soil, there is
little pressure on the land which has resulted in the recent development of
larger-scale mechanized farms. Three major river systems (Gongola, Hawal,
and Yedseram) with their flood plains provide the main opportunity for
innovative agricultural development. The population of 1.2 mn is
overwhelmingly rural and consists of an estimated 170,000 farm families,
the great majority of which live in villages of less than 1,500 people.
Project Description
35.       The project would consist of five major components: Ci)
Agricultural Development; (ii) Access Road Development; (iii) Rural Water
Supply; (iv) Technical Assistance; and (v) Federal Irrigation Studies.
36.       Agricultural Development.  Based on ongoing and completed ADP
experience, the project would focus on the non-traditional crops,
particularly maize and vegetables through improved small-scale irrigation.
Furthermore, since it has not proved useful to encourage the adoption of
crop packages for the traditional mixtures, the project would, instead,
offer farmers individual inputs from which they can choose those that best
serve their purposes. No attempt has therefore been made to link the use
of one input to another.
37.       Increased grain production would be promoted by the use of
alternative varieties, seed dressing, improved weed control through
herbicide application, increased use of fertilizers and their more effec-
tive utilization and the reduction of storage losses by chemical means.
The bulk of such increases would be derived from the maize crop. Cowpea
output would be increased through improved pest control in the field and in
storage. The better use of fadama lands (low-lying areas subject to
seasonal flooding, frequently with a shallow, permanent water table) would
be fostered through improved access and availability of pumps, seeds, plant
protection chemicals and advice.
38.       The project would improve the current extension service which
provides a broad geographical coverage but has little impact on farm
practices. Project extension staff would be selected from the available
cadre and would improve their performance through better organization,
mobility, goal setting and in-service training. This would be combined
with improved availability of inputs which would provide key elements of
extension messages. Several hundred large-scale farmers (with areas of 50



- 13 -
to 500 ha) in the project area require a different level of extension
advice and a special unit would be established to meet their needs.
39.       According to the agricultural research information which became
available from the large neighboring ADPs in similar ecological conditions
and from the major research stations covering the area, the rainfed crops
have not been economically justifiable. The main thrust of project
investigations would, therefore, be into the more efficient use of the
floodplains and river banks. This is the sphere in which the greatest
opportunity for future development appears to lie.
40.       The project would finance the purchase of agricultural inputs
except for fertilizer. Existing fertilizer stocks financed under IBRD
Fertilizer Loan No. 2345-UNI are considered sufficient for the project
needs up to the end of the Project Year (PY)3. The bulk of the PY4 and PY5
fertilizer requirements would be supplied either by Nigeria's Fertilizer
plant at Onne, which is expected to be in commercial production in PY2, or
by fertilizer imports, possibly financed by a second IBRD fertilizer loan.
Non-fertilizer inputs would be financed for the whole of Borno State.
Inputs would be sold to the Borno Accelerated Development Area Program
(BOADAP, which was established in 1982 to provide agricultural services to
the State's semi-arid northern part) for resale throughout its project
area. The Southern Borno Agricultural Development Project (SBADP) and
BOADAP would sell farm inputs (including fertilizer) on the basis of full
cost recovery. No new project-operated retail outlets would be established
and the project would operate not more than 14 of the existing outlets.
Consequently, the project would promote the development of a private sector
retail network for farm input distribution.
Access Road Development
41.       The project would focus mainly on improvement and maintenance of
existing access tracks by local communities. Experience with existing ADPs
has shown that local government agencies assigned the responsibility for
maintaining new roads constructed under the projects have neither the
financial nor physical resources to fulfill this function. A similar
situation exists in Borno State; the existing Local Government Authority
(LGA) road network is not being maintained and there appears no likelihood
that this situation will improve. As an alternative, the proposed project
is designed to rely on communities to maintain the roads which are their
economic lifeline.  Some communities have already shown considerable
initiative in this regard. The project would build on this by training
community teams in road maintenance work.
42.       The project would increase the accessibility of about 1,000 km of
existing tracks which were constructed and are maintained by local
communities. Wet season use of this extensive access track network is
often constrained by inadequate watercourse crossings. The project would
cooperate with local communities to identify such barriers and would
provide necessary inputs and assist in the construction of improved
crossings which would allow passage of light vehicles even during the wet
season. To facilitate farm input distribution and crop marketing in the
riverine area, the project would provide spot improvement on about 150 km



- 14 -
of existing access tracks and construct, in equal tranches over the five
year project implementation period, about 135 km of new access tracks to
high potential irrigable areas. Maintenance of this new track development
during the project implementation period would be undertaken by the project
and thereafter by the local communities. However, as some of these roads
would be serving new development areas and new communities, it may become
necessary for BSG to maintain these roads beyond the project implementation
period to allow time for transfering responsibility.
Rural Water Supplies
43.       Smaller villages (less than 2,000 people) rely entirely on
hand-dug wells for their water supply. Geological formations in most parts
of the project area are such that shallow aquifers (10-15 m) overlie rock
formations in which water only occurs at considerable depth. This largely
precludes the widespread use of shallow boreholes fitted with hand pumps
such as those used in other ADPs. Therefore, the project would basically
continue the tradition of previous development initiatives in the area and
assist with the digging, lining and deepening of open wells. Communities
would be provided with lining materials, tools and skilled artisans to
develop wells. Unskilled labor would be supplied by the community as is
now widely practiced. For areas where geological formations allow economic
fitting of shallow boreholes, a provision has been made for drilling of up
to 10 boreholes (tube wells) subject to the outcome of an irrigation study
(para. 44a). The project would assist with up to 750 wells and
construction of up to 40 storage ponds for livestock over a five year
period. Construction of new hand-dug wells would be done in five equal
tranches over the five-year implementation period.
Technical Assistance
44.       The project would provide about 25 man-years of internationally
recruited staff to assist in project implementation. It would finance also
short-term consultant services, about 20 man-months, to provide specialized
skills for the following services: (a) an assessment of potential
irrigable areas using shallow tubewells together with an estimation of
their capacity; (b) a survey of existing farming systems to identify
constraints and possible new improvements to provide the necessary base
from which new initiatives in extension, input supply and research can be
developed; (c) the preparation of an action plan as a basis for the
privatization of the State's Tractor Hire Unit since implementation of a
satisfactory plan would condition further Bank lending to the agricultural
sector in the State; and (d) such other agriculturally related studies as
BSG may consider necessary with approval from FMG and the Bank.
45.       The project would cooperate with Borno Accelerated Development
Area Program (BOADAP) in providing training facilities to their own staff
and the communities within the project area. Project staff would be
trained both at the managerial and technical supervisory level in
agriculture, administration and accounting, vehicle and plant operation.
Maximum use would be made of the services of the Agriculture and Rural
Development Management Training Institute (ARMTI) (Ln. 1719-UNI) already
established in Ilorin with Bank support. Members of the local community



- 15 -
would be trained mainly in the construction and maintenance of wells and
access roads.
Federal Irrigation Studies
46.       A federal component of the project, entirely independent of the
Borno State development proposals, would provide the Federal Government
with consultant services to assist in the planning and preparation of
nationwide irrigation studies.  The proposed studies would include also
preparation of irrigation projects for external assistance. Study funds
would total US$2.5 mn. The studies would be directed by the Department of
Water Resources in the Federal Government in consultation with the Bank.
Project Costs and Financing
47.       Total project costs are estimated at US$39.3 mn (including taxes
and duties of US$1.4 million) of which US$20.3 mn or about 52 percent would
be foreign costs. Project costs include (a) phyaical contingencies equal
to 10 percent of base cost for civil works, buildings and farm inputs and 5
percent for all other items except technical assistance, salaries and
wages; and (b) price contingencies calculated on base costs plus physical
contingencies and compounded annually using the following annual rates:
all local costs including salaries - 1986 22 percent, 1987 17 percent, 1988
16 percent, 1989 15 percent, and 1990 14 percent; foreign costs - 1986 and
1987 7 percent, 1988 7.5 percent, 1989 7.7 percent, and 1990 7.6 percent.
Total contingencies are equivalent to about 38 percent of base costs or 28
percent of total project cost. A breakdown of costs by major category is
provided in the Loan and Project Summary.
48.       The proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 mn represents 66 percent of
total project costs excluding taxes and duties, and would cover 97 percent
of foreign exchange costs and 28 percent of local costs. FMG would finance
US$8.5 mn (22 percent) and BSG US$5.8 mn (15 percent).  FMG would on-lend
$22.5 mn of the $25.0 mn loan to BSG on the same terms and conditions as
the Bank loan. Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a
condition of loan effectiveness. BSG would bear the foreign exchange risk.
The balance of US$2.5 mn would be retained by FMG to finance irrigation
subsector studies.
49.       To ensure the provision of timely and adequate counterpart
funding, the following actions were agreed to at negotiations:
a)   as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan, FMG and
BSG would each deposit in the project account NO.6 mn, which
represents the estimated operating and capital costs for the
first six months of the project;
b)   both FMG and BSG would make the balance of their
contribution quarterly in advance and in the amounts stated
in the annual budgets approved for the project;
c)   also as a condition of loan effectiveness, BSG shall
authorize SBADPMU to establish overdraft facilities of up to



- 16 -
N1.0 mn in a commercial bank and fully guarantee payment
obligations of SBADPMU; and
d)   in the event that BSG is delinquent for two successive
quarters in paying in full its quarterly share of project
costs into the project account, FMG would pay BSG's
contribution into the project account directly from the
State's statutory allocation.
Status of Project Preparation and Implementation
50.       While the Federal Ministrv of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Rural Development (FMAWRRD) would have the overall responsibility for
ensuring that the project was carried out in accordance with the Project
and Loan Agreements, BSG would have direct responsibility for implementing
the Southern Borno ADP (SBADP) component. The apex of the State project
organizational structure would be the Borno Agricultural Development
Program Executive Committee (BADPEC) and would be chaired by the Borno
State Governor. BADPEC would be responsible for coordinating project
activities with other ongoing development programs (especially BOADAP). It
would provide policy guidance, approve annual work programs and budgets,
and ensure that adequate funds are made available in a timely manner. The
establishment of BADPEC would be a condition for loan effectiveness.
51.       Project Management.  Key features of the project management
structure relate to the need to provide cost-effective services, close
coordination with LGAs in providing roads and water, a merger with BOADAP
and adequate manpower development for the planning and long-term
implementation of statewide rural development. The project management
structure and its institutional arrangements follow the pattern established
in the Multi-State ADP and would provide the foundation of a future
statewide operation. The project would take over, within the project area,
the responsibility for crop production services of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) and Ministry of Local Government
with the exception of the Tractor Hire Unit. The project would cooperate
with BOADAP in (i) staff training and manpower development; (ii) monitoring
and evaluation; and (iii) farm input supply and distribution. Considerably
more adaptation of BOADAP strategies in other areas will be required before
the two projects can be merged, and until then BOADAP will continue
operating in the north and SBADP will operate in the south. The apex of
the project's operational management structure would be the SBADP
Management Unit (SBADPMU), which would be respoLsible to BADPEC for
establishing and operating SBADP in accordance with BADPEC policy
directives, and in accordance with the conditions of Project and Subsidiary
Loan Agreements. The establishment of SBADPMU and the appointment of a
Cnief Agronomist would be conditions for loan effectiveness. Three key
management staff (Project Manager, the Financial Controller and the Chief
Civil Engineer) have already been appointed. SBADPMU would submit, for
approval of the Federal Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
(FDARD) and information of the Bank, an annual action plan (along with the
annual budget) approved by BADPEC for buildings, roads, water supply,
procurement, and agriculture development. These submissions would be made
at least four months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year.



- 17 -
52.       SBADPMU would employ about 600 staff of which about 530 are
already state employees. About 70 new staff, mainly for the engineering
division, would be employed for the project implementation period only.
SBADPMU would recruit its agricultural staff requirements from existing
MANR and LGA staff, under procedures successfully developed by FACU under
the Bank-supported Kaduna ADP (Loan 2436-UNI) and now to be implemented
under the Multi-State ADP. BSG would provide in MANR's annual recurrent
budget the cost of staff redeployed to the project and pay their salaries
and allowances directly from its budget. As a condition of effectiveness,
BSG would assign responsibility, including redeployment of the required
staff, for crop extension work in the project area to SBADPMU. All staff
selection and appointment (international and local) would be completed by
September 30, 1986.
53.       The project headquarters would be sited at Maiduguri, the State
capital, some 80 km North of the project area. This would facilitate
cooperation with BOADAP and be the optimum location for the management of a
possible statewide operation. Since offices, workshops, houses,
electricity and water are already available in Maiduguri, it would require
relatively small incremental expenditures. There would be two zonal
offices, one at Bama serving the eastern part of the project area and a
second at Biu covering the southern and western parts.
54.       A project monitoring and evaluation unit would be established to
work in close collaboration with the corresponding unit in BOADAP. Its
monitoring function would be designed to provide an information system on
which management can make its policy decisions. The evaluation section
would focus specifically on those project initiatives which are expected to
provide its benefits. For this purpose a series of clearly defined impact
studies would be carried out, rather than any attempt to measure the
overall evolution of agriculture in the project area.
55.       Federal Institutions.  Three existing federal institutions would
provide implementation assistance to project start-up and with carrying out
individual components. Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) would
be responsible for assisting in project start-up, implementation and
supervision.  Start-up assistance would be provided through a Project
Facilitation Team (PFT) comprising FACU staff and, if necessary,
consultants, following a pattern already successfully tested under the
Bank-supported Kaduna ADP and Multi-State ADP. PFT would assist in the
establishment of a management unit and the preparation of an Action Plan
setting out details of the work program proposed for the first year of the
project. Preparation of an Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of loan effectiveness. Agricultural and Rural Development
Management Training Institute (ARMTI) would provide services and support to
the project training program. Federal Agricultural Project Monitoring
Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU), established under the Agricultural
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2029-UNI), would provide technical
assistance for project monitoring and evaluation and would oversee ex-post
evaluation.



- 18 -
Procurement
56.       The following table summarizes the amounts and methods of
procurement with amounts to be financed by the Bank loan shown in
parentheses:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ Million)
Procurement Component                 ICB   LCB/LIB  Others    Total
1. Buildings & Water Related           -      5.2        0.1       5.3
Civil Works                      (-)    (4.4)      (0.1)     (4.5)
2. Plant, Equipment, & Materials    2.8       0.7        2.1        5.6
and Spare Parts                 (2.8)   (0.6)      (1.3)      (4.7)
3.  Vehicles                          1.1     0.1         -         1.2
(1.1)    (-)        (-)      (1.1)
4. Consultants, International          -       -         3.1        3.1
Salaries and Training             (-)     (-)       (3.0)     (3.0)
5. Farm Inputs                        6.0     0.6        3.4       10.0
(6.0)   (0.2)      ( - )     (6.2)
6. Operating Costs and                 -       -        11.6       11.6
General Services                  (-)     (-)       (3.0)      (3.0)
7. Federal Irrigation Subsector        -       -         2.5        2.5
Studies                           (-)     (-)       (2.5)      (2.5)
Total                  9.9       6.6      22.8       39.3
IBRD                  (9.9)    (5.2)      (9.9)    (25.0)
57.       All goods and services financed under the Bank loan would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines, and be exempted from Federal
and State taxes and duties, as is customary in Nigeria. Contracts valued
at US$300,000 or more for plant, vehicles, construction materials and farm
inputs would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB),
and a margin of preferrnce applied to 15 percent of CIF bid price or actual
customs duties, whichever is less, would be allowed for domestic
manufacturers. Contracts valued at less than US$300,000 but more than
US$60,000 would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) or
limited international bidding (LIB) under procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Contracts of less than US$60,000 would be procured through direct
competitive shopping based on at least three quotations. Items would be
bulked to permit optimum use of competitive bidding. Contracts for works
such as buildings (mainly staff quarters), small earth dams and concrete
rings for wells would be procured through LCB/LIB procedures satisfactory
to the Bank and would provide international contractors in Nigeria an
opportunity to participate. Roads would be constructed on force account



- 19 -
but the construction and maintenance equipment for such works would be
procured by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Internationally-recruited staff, consultants and training services will be
obtained in accordance with Bank guidelines. All bidding packages for
buildings, civil works, goods and services over US$300,000 would be subject
to the prior review of the Bank.
DisLursement
58.       The Bank loan of US$25.0 mn would be disbursed over six years
beginning FY87 through FY92. About 50 percent of the Bank loan wouis be
disbursed in the last two project years to coincide with the increasing use
of farm inputs in the later part of the project implementation period.
Disbursements would be at (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85
percent of local expenditures for the following: buildings and civil works
for the water component; vehicles, plant, equipment, materials and spare
parts; consultants and international salaries; and farm inputs; (ii) at
100 percent of expenditures for training and federal irrigation subsector
studies; and (iii) at 40 percent of expenditures for operating costs and
general services.
59.       Reimbursement for civil works contracts less than US$50,000,
other contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent, local training programs
approved by the Bank, and operating and general service costs would be made
on the basis of statement of expenditure. Otherwise disbursement will be
on the basis of full documentation. A Special Account would be established
by BSG for its project components into which the Bank would make an initial
deposit of US$1.0 mn to be used to prefinance goods and services
reimbursable under the loan. The Special Account would be operated under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and its replenishment would be
conditional on BSG and FMG's quarterly releases of their contribution
(para. 49). Provision has been made for retroactive financing of up to
US$1.5 mn for expenditures incurred after November 15, 1985 to facilitate
project start-up operations and to initiate 1986 crop season activities.
Auditing and Reporting
60.       SBADP and FMG accounts related to the project (including separate
accounts for amounts withdrawn on the basis of Statement of Expenditure and
the Special Account) would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The auditor's report and statement of accounts
would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the FMG
fiscal year. SBADP and FACU (on behalf of FMG) would submit: (a) quarterly
progress reports to the Bank; and (b) within six months of the project's
closing date, a final report on implementation and project achievements.
Production and Markets
61.       As a result of the project's agricultural initiatives, it is
expected that incremental annual production in the project area of various
crops from PY5 onward would be as follows: 7,500 tons of maize, 3,600 tons
of cowpeas, 1,700 tons of sorghum, 600 tons of millet, and 9,720 tons of
vegetables. The bulk of this produce is expected to be sold within the



- 20 -
State where a growing urban population and the grain deficient rangeland
areas of the semi-arid north provide a ready market. An exception would be
the vegetables which could be moved either along existing good quality
trunk roads to the forest zone in the coastal belt or to an existing
processing plant a few miles from the project boundary. Newly established
feed mills in the State would provide additional outlets for surplus maize.
Marketing is at present in the hands of private traders with a minimum of
official intervention and prices therefore reflect internal market forces.
Financial Impact and Project Sustainability
62.       The project would generate little government revenue, since there
is no sales tax and farmers' output is also not taxed. Financial cost to
the State Government during the project period would consist of (a) share
of project costs of N5.8 mn; (b) non-incremental costs of N11.0 mn for
existing staff and overheads; and (c) subsidies of NO.2 mn and N2.0 mn for
incremental and non-incremental fertilizer respectively. Thus, on an
annual basis, the State financial burden would be N1.2 mn for incremental
cost and N2.4 mn for existing staff and subsidy for non-incremental
fertilizer. The relatively small incremental costs (about 2.2 percent and
0.5 percent of BSG 1985 capital and recurrent budget respectively) are
expected to be within BSG's financing capacity. The Federal Government's
contribution would amount to N8.5 mn (or about N1.7 mn annually for
incremental project costs), NO.4 mn in incremental fertilizer subsidy and
N1.3 mn in non-incremental fertilizer subsidy.  The financial cost of
non-fertilizer farm inputs totalling N7.3 mn would be recovered in full
from farmers. No incremental project costs would have to be sustained by
government in the post project period because no incremental staff will be
required. Water supplies and roads would be maintained by the community
except for about N70,000 per year for four years which may be required to
maintain fadama access roads to new communities. The cost of fertilizer
and farm inputs would be fully recovered from farmers, and, in the case of
fertilizer, State and Federal subsidies are expected to be fully withdrawn
by 1989 (PY3). Increased farm production in rainfed areas would, in
general, provide returns of about 12 per incremental labor hour. Fadama
irrigation, which would provide the major output increase, would give a
return of N4.60 per labor hour and the use of herbicides on maize would
show a return of N120 per hectare.
Benefits and Risks
63.       The project would: (a) increase food production and the income of
up to 60,000 farming families; (b) improve 1,000 km of village access roads
to reduce incremental transport cost by 50 percent in both dry and wet
seasons and increase wet weather serviceability to 85 percent; (c) improve
rural water supply by providing 750 new or deepened hand-dug wells and 40
water retaining ponds; (d) establish a better link between research,
extension and the farmer to encourage the adoption of improved production
technology and the long-term upgrading of skills; (e) develop new low cost
small irrigation schemes in the fadama areas; and (f) strengthen the
institutions involved and establish a management capacity to undertake, in
the future, a statewide operation.



- 21 -
64.       The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated to
be 16 percent. These economic benefits are derived from increased food
production emanating from better use and increase of (i) fertilizer
application (11 percent); chemicals (36 percent); (ii) improved seeds
(11 percent); and (iii) fadama development (42 percent). About 90 percent
of the economic incremental benefits would be derived from three crops:
juaize (32 percent); cowpea (25 percent); and vegetables (33 percent). The
balance would be .ontributed by sorghum (7 percent) and millet (3 percent).
*           The outflow stream includes all incremental costs except those for water
supply, agricultural investigation and 25 percent of the road components.
Existing staff are excluded from the calculation and if these costs were
included for the project period only, the ERR would be 1 percent.
Sensitivity analysis shows that total costs would need to increase by
20 percent or project benefits decrease by 17 percent for the ERR to fall
below the opportunity cost of capital (10 percent).
65.       The project faces several risks associated with (i) the ability
of FMG and BSG to fund the project regularly and adequately; (ii) the
efficiency and effectiveness of the distribution system of farm inputs;
including fertilizer and in particular that the State Government may
attempt to minimize the participation of the private sector in the
distribution of farm inputs, thus limiting their availability to farmers;
and (iii) the availability of farm inputs including fertilizer; and (iv)
adverse effects of price distortions emanating from FMG trade policy
resulting in lower than anticipated farmer response to project services.
66.       The first two risks, project funding and the efficiency of farm
input distribution system, have been addressed by reducing project costs to
a supportable level, and planning the road development and rural water
supply programs to rely more on traditional patterns and enable the local
communities to maintain them independently of government funding, and
the stipulation that FMG and BSG would undertake to assist the project in
promoting the development of a private sector retail network for the
distribution of farm inputs including fertilizer. The third risk, the
availability of farm inputs is reduced by (i) the present fertilizer stock
(already sufficient for half the project period); and (ii) project
provision (foreign and local funds) for the procurement of farm inputs
(excluding fertilizer).  The risk of inappropriate prices is dramatically
reduced by FMG's recent reform measures (e.g. abolishment of government
commodity boards). This would be further reduced by arrangements made
through the Multi-State ADP (Agricultural Pricing and Policy Unit).
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 18, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-2 -                                              ANNEX I
Page I of 6
CEXtRIA               - S4OCA. HEEICATORS DATA SSlET
NIGERIA                             EEPEEICEM 630696 (NEICTED 9335635) 
mm IIIIT(MOST RECET ENATE) /b
I 1gpJb  :ic1Sb               MtoIEN  INUIS          mans lncm
1T 19/T/            AFRICAl S. OF SA4 1   . AFRICA & KID EAST
au IIIIY 5Q. E10
TWTAL                             922.8       923.6      923.6
AIGICULTURAL                      471.0       497.4      513.4
cGM  u catir  (iuS)                    ..          ..       770.0            1063.6                   1134.9
myIIC cmumrnm PuM caPIT
(KILOAS OF OIL EQUIVALNT)          20.0       35.0       143.0             501.5                    b23.9
PO MAND VITL STAIC5
POPULATION.HlD-TEAR (TNOUSAIDS)  S1596.0    66162.0    9342.0
URBN POULATION CZ OF TOTAL)        13.1         6.4       22.0              32.0                     49.0
POPULATION PROJCnOFIS
POPULATON IN EA  2000 (HILL)                           162.7
STATIONURY POPULATION (HILL)                           532.0
POPULATION MDNENTII                                      2.0
POPULAflONt DEITY
PER SQ. KR.                      55.9       1l.6       101.4              65.1                     37.6
PER SQ. SN. AGRI. LAND          109.b      133.0       176.4             124.6                    470.1
POPULATION ACE STRUURE (S)
0-14 YRS                        45.4       46.6        47.5              45.6                     43.5
15-64 YRS                        52.2       50.9        49.9              51.5                     S3.0
65 ND ABOV                        2.3        2.3         2.4               2.7                      3.3
POPULAION GROwTE  AE (I)
TOTAL                             2.4        2.5         2.7               2.9                      2J
URBA                              4.7        4.7         4.9               5.1                      4.4
CRUDE BArN RAZE (rMR TROIUS)       51.5       S0.9        49.S              67.0                     40.0
CIUDE DEATH RATE (PEn TOUS)       25.0       21.1        16.7              15.0                    l.S
CROSS REPRODUCGON RATE              3.4        3.4         3.4               3.2                      2.J
FAhILY PS
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TacS)          ..         7.6
usERs (C OF  A       NE)          ..         6. .0                         b.A                     21.4
fOOD AD NOTRITIO
TINDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     300.0      102.0        62.O              62.9                     95.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF NEQRSBTS)         66.0       61.0        94.0              96.5                    116.2
PROTENS (CRAS m  DAY)            48.0       44.0       4U.0               53.4                     77.6
OP WHICH ANIMAL AID P1ULE       10.0        11.0       11.0 Ic           16.5                     17.J
CILnL  AGES 1-4) DEATh RAz         37.4       28.6        17.0              16.6                     12.6
LIFe EXPECT. AT RIl (TEARS)        39.0       43.5        ".6               S2.0                     57.8
lNFAurr MKR. RAT (MP TmoS)        163.5      140.5       113.0             103.6                     96.6
ACCESS TO SAFP WATE! (tine)
TOTAL                             ..          ..         ..               42.4                     67.2
URBAN                             ..          ..         ..               67.5                     93.4
RUrAL                             ..         ..          ..               35.8                     4S.
ACCESS TO tlCZETA DISPoSAL
ISOF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..         ..               26.9                     45.9
URUN                              ..         ..          ..               57.7                     63.0
RURAL                             ..         ..          ..               20.7                     23.6
POPUATION PER HTSICUIA          73710.0    24670.0    12350.0 id         1179S.7                   4331.0
POP. PER NURSING PSON            4040.0 /a  5070.0      3010.0 7          2459.                    1645.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL ED
TOTAL                          3020.0 /f  2220.0      1180.0 Id          981.1                    6Z1J
URBtN                           430.0 7-    490.0      370.0 T           368.6                    545.0
RURAL                         25630.0 7T  1690.0      5490.0     .      4371.9                   2511.3
aDNlSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BoE         ..         ..          ..               27.2                     25.7
AVERE SIZE OF HOUSDENLD
TOTAL                             ..
URUA                              ..         4.7 /h
RURAL
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/kOON
TOTAL                             ..
URAN                              3.0        2.2 lb
RURAL                             ..
PERCENTAGE OF INELItC  S TH ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..
UR5N                             S1.3      42.4 Ih       .
RURAL                             ..



- 23 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
NIGIIRA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NtGERIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) I
HOST                    (HOST REGEcT ESTIMATE) lb
RSCENb           MIDDLE INCOME         MIDDLE INCOlME
1960k    597/b  ESTIMA,TIb       AFRECA S. OF SAHARA   N. ARICA A MID EAST
ADJUSTED ENROLLtENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  36.0       37.0       98.0 ld           95.7                     89.8
MALE                  46.0       47.0         .               100.0                    103.7
FaIALE                27.0       27.0        ..                 3.2                    75.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  4.0        4.0       16.0 ld           17.3                     42.9
MALE                   6.0        6.0         ..               25.0                    50.9
FEUALE                 1.0        3.0        ..                14.8                    34.6
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)        4.8        8.5         3.1 /d            5.9                     10.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          30.0       34.0        *-               41.1                     29.7
SECONDARY                        19.0       21.0        ..               25.5                     18.8
CsSUnmOI
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP        0.6        0.9         1.4 /i           20.8                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP       2.8        19.3       72.9             107.8                    175.9
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          0.0         1.1        5.0              20.8                     51.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND PCPULATION            5.5        4.8        5.6              18.4                     37.2
ClNEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA    ..          ..         0.3 /d            0.4                     2.4
LABORL FORGE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)       21788.0    25992.0    33544.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 41.3       40.6       39.6              36.2                     11.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            71.0       62.0       54.0/1            54.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               10.0       14.0       19.0 Ij           18.3                     27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            42.2       39.3       35.8              36.8                     26.2
MALE                             50.3       47.3       U.O               47.1                     46.2
FEMALE                           34.4       31.5       28.3              27.2                      5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           1.1        1.2        1.4               1.3                      1.8
cm            m DSi
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
LOWEST 40T OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
POWU TYCT CES
ESTIMIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY DhOOll
LEVEL CUSs PER CAPlTA)
URBAN                             ..         ..       696.0             590.7                   226.3
RURAL                             ..         ..       341.0             275.3                    134.0
ESTIMTED REIATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..       621.0             545.6                    431.5
RURAL                             ..        ..        207.0             201.1                    326.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                             ..
RURAL                             ..        ..          ..                ..                      29.0
Nor AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are popaal-io-weighted arithmetic seans. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and ia not uniform.
/b  Unlear otherwise noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Mot RIecent Estimte" betwen 1981 nd 1983.
Ic  1977; /d 1979; /e 1962; /f Includes es-North Caeroon under British administration; L& 1976; /h 1972;
1 1978; f Li 1980.9
JUNE, 1985



-24-                                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DDFINmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOIL1
Nomes: Although the dataare drawn fron surces geneily judged the must authmniataie and reliae it uboduld also be nomed that they may nut be mnternuaionall
cotaparable bcause of the lack of sandardized definition and onmcept uted by diferest countoes in collecting the damt. The data amr. nsnethdoes usful to
dacribe ardmrs of magWnitu. idiciate trends, and charaterize ceuain major differene between countrie.
lTe reference groups arc (I) the some country group or the subject country amid 121 d country group with wmewhat higher awraege immtsmc than the oaunmm
groupuf the mbjeaicntny (except or "High IncomeOlt Eaparters' group whre "Middl Incsnme NnrthAfrica and Middkl Fast--schosen be;utse g'f(ronger
socieo-cultural mmitnitie*s In the reerence group data the aveages are popuation weighted arithmetic mcans ror each indicator and dsown only when matjority
ofthe countries in a goup ha damn for that indicator. Since the coverae oftuntries among the indicatorsdepends on tme anilabalimy ofdata and is noL umf'orm,  |
caution mua be exercised in relating averages ofone indicator to *notha. The1e averagn arc only urefiu mncompanng the value of one indalnor am d time nmonag
the country and reference groups. 
ARre t1uousand sq.km.)                                             Crude irth Rute (per thousand) - Number orlivc births mn the year
Torat--Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.  pcr thousand of nod-year poipulation; 1960. 1970. and 19113 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                          Crude Death Rlte fper rthewd) --Number of deaths in the year
A.griukur-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or        per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 19K3 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodwtion Rare- -Average number of daughter a wotnaui
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experienccs
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages cndming
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)--GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983
market prices. calculated by same crnverusn method as Wtorld       Fusiy Plmsnisg-Acceptars, .4ssumd (thousundri  Annual nunt-
Bank Atlas ( 1 98 1-83 basis); 1983 data                           ber ofacceptors of birth-control devices under auspices ol nationial
ENERGY CXONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA--Annual apparent                   family planning progrant.
consumption of commercial primary energy tcoal and lignite.        Fusily Plauing-Usar (pecexr ofsarred nwews) - nie prcesn-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dec-     tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are prActicing any form ofcontraccption. Women
1982 data.                                                         oftchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. alihough for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other agc
POPtILATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
Total Popuhatio.. Mid-Yer (thousaumh-As of Julv 1: 190. 1970.      FOOD AND NUT'RITION
and 1983 data.
lndex ofFoond Pr condPterCqCpituf1969-71= lM)  Index.sfiper
Urban Popusietn (percent of total)  Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food wmmodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture I-o commodities
abilit% of data among countries; 1960. 170. and 19813 data,        include primary commodities aeg. sugsrcanc mn-iat  of sn arle
r DPatio Projections                                               which are edible and contain nutrients tcg cuffee and tea are
Population an year 2f100--The projection of population for 20W.    excluded): they comprise cereals, root crops. pules. til seedts
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetables. fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets livestoctk. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates. aid  livestock products. Aggregate production of each c unirv is hased
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters    on nationsal average producer price weights. 1961-bi5. 1971Q and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized   19X2 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary                 hr Capira Supply ofCalories (perce  of requrew)- Comput-
Stationary population--is one in which age- and sex-specific mtor-  ed from calorieequivatent of net food suppliesav;tilable in countrv
tality rates have not changed over a long period. whilc age-specific  per capita per day Available supplies compnrs dumestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  lion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = I) In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seds for use in agriculturc. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rdte, the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements Were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated hv FAO based on physiological needs for normal aclivitv
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 20U0. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribuuon of population. and allowing lU percent for
rate to replacement level.                                         wastc at h.ousehold level: 1961. 197t1 anJ 1982 data.
Population Monenrusn - Is the tendency for population growth Itt   Per Capita .pply efProtein (grmr per day)  Proitin content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has heeit  per capita net supply of fod per day Net supply tf food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above Requirements for ail rtotntrtc established hv USDA
unity. Thc momentum of a population in the year t is measured as   provide for minimum allowances of tIl granis ofl totl protesn per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. oi which 10 grams-
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
PAtpuie    Dasoey                                                  averlge for the world, proposcd by FAO in the Third World Foud
Per sqknm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-      Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tarcs) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita ProteinSupplyfin .4inadlandPulve -Prctein supply
Per sqkm. agricultural leand  Computedl as above for agricultural  of foud dcrived from aniFnals and puls. in grams pet da. 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                               1970 and 1977 data.
PopWaion Age Sructuret (percent)-Children (0-14 vears). work-      Crhil (ages l-4 Death Rate fper thousandj  Ntumher rofdcath of
ing age (15-64 vears). and retired (65 years and ovcr) as perccntage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the sanc age
of mid-year population; 196f0 197t1. and 1983 data.                group in a given year FIor most devcloping c.-untic.s data denv.ci
Irom life tables: 19h0. 1970 and 19113 dlata.
Popuatiwn Growth Rate (percensr-ratL-Annual growth rates of
total mid-year population for 1950h, 1960-70. and 1970-83.         HEALTH
Popation Growth Rate (percent)-arhnu  Annual grovwth rates         LUfe Expectany at 8irtk (yars)  Numibei lf %eAr.' d sicewborn
of urban population for 1950-0. 1961)-70. and 1970-83 data.        infant would live if prcvailing pattcrns of morLality lor all people



- 25-                                               ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  n pil-reacher Ratio - primary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                       rolled in primary and seontdary levels divided by numbers of
lifat MDtaty Rate (per rhousand)-Number of infants who die      teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per 'housand live births in a given
year, 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMIF11011
Aces to Safe Wwr (percen of psptin)--4, _rbm. ald               Passeer Cas (per thousan papuat&m)-Passrnger cars com-
red-Number of people (total. urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
accns to safe water supply (indudes treated surface waters or   ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untracted but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Rado Receier (per rtousad poplatio) -Al types of receisers
boreholes, springs and smnitay wells) as percentages of their mspec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters forn a house -ay be considercd  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable aecess of that house. In rural areas  not be comparbk since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable accss would umply that the housewife or memnbers of the
housethold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  to Raepeivs (perthusand populato   -TV receivers fur broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs,                          to general public per thousand population:; excludes unlicnsed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Access to Exermra Dsoal (perce  qFpplatin)-fOtaiL sraa,    in effect.
ad rr-Number of people (total. urban. and rural) served by
cxcreta disposal as percntages of their respective populations.  'wspW5pe Cirulaiou (per thousand popuation)-- Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposaL with or  age circulation of "daily genaal interest newspaper.- defined as a
without treatment, of human eacreta and waste-water by water-  pcriodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily'- if it appears at least four tinmes a week.
Poyrl ion jr Physiiur-PNpulation divided by number of pTac-    Ci        Am_d Aneendwe per Capita per Yer-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,  number or tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Ppulation per Nursg Perso-lipulation divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses,  LBR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                         LABOR FORCE
Popuation per  ospaw Bed--total, urba, an rrai-lbrpulation      Total Lar Force (andue--Eco           nomically active persons, in.
(total. urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  chuding armed forces and unemployed but ealtudtng housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private. general and specialized  student. etc. coverng population Of all ages. Definitons in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  vanous countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at kast one physician. Establishments prov-  Female (percent -Fenmale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals  force.
howevcr, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agriulure (percen)-- Labor force in faffning. forestry. hunting
.y a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife. etcI.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         industry (percenr)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admission per Hospital e--Total number of admissions to or      facturing and eletricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pnicrdpatio. Rate (percenftrotal. mak. andfensd-Parnicipation
HOUSfING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. malc. and fenale Labor force
Average S:e of Huehd (persons per hoashol)-meeal, urban.       as percentages of total, male and ferale population of all ages
andrs0 --A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectivdy; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quartrs and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes    long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Vumber of Persons per Room-totaf, whm, a  rural---      Eco.noc Depedency Ratio- Ratio *fr population under 15. and
Avernge number of persons per room in all urban, and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBll   YION
Prcentage of Dwelkigs wr* Elctr- iota!, urban. ad rural         Percentage of Troal Dpsabk lce, rne  oAh eiash and kind) -
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively,         hold incomc.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGfl GROUPS
A4justed E     irownt Ras                                      The following estimates are very approximate measures or poverty
Pri-nary sczool - rotd. male and Jimalk--Gross total. male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution
fermale enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Ftirnswed Absolue Poverry Incme Lev  (1 3SS per capita J-rbun
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rual-- Absolute poverty income level is what income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. Tlhe  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus esscmiial
differences in country practics in the agcs and duration of school  non-rood requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given For somC countries with universal  Estimaed Relaive Poverry lcme Level (5 pUSer caita)--arban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 peacent since some   and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is onc-third .,
pupils are Wobw or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal invome of the country. I Irban level is
agec                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher CofS at
Secondary school - road. male and Jema&--Computed as above,     living iu urbani areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  Esmaed lbpaioa Below .4hsolate Poverty nacme Level (per-
mary instruction: provides general, vocational or teacher training  cent)-arban aud rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instruictions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 vears of age: correspond-  who arc 'absolute poor
ence courses are generally cxduded.
Vocational Enronieni (percent of '.erondary/--Vocational institu-         Comparative Analhsis and Data Division
uions include technical. industriaL or othcr progfams which operate     Economic Analysis and ProjLctions Depanment
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 26 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (S. Constant Prices)
USS Kln      S             1975-80          1982           1983
GNP at Market Prices           73001      100.0             3.5            -2.3           -5.9
Gross Domestic Investment       9568       13.1             1.2           -23.9          -20.4
Gross National Saving          11384       15.6             1.2           -39.4           13.0
Current Account Balance         -321        -               -               -              -
Exports of Goods and nfs       12341       16.9             5.5           -23.7           -7.3
Imports of Goods and nfs       10527       14.4             6.3           -15.9          -24.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1984
Value Added           Labor Force  a/      Value Added per Worker
USS Hln        S          Hln         S         US$ Mln     %
Agriculture              22702         31.4        21.0       58.3        1081       53.8
Industry and Mining      24510         33.9         7.1       19.7        3452      171.7
Services                 25178         34.7         7.8       21.7        3228      160.5
Total/Average           72390        100.0        36.0      100.0        2011      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE b/
General Government (1983)         Central Government (1984)
N Mln          As % of GDP          N Min       As % of GDP
1983         1983      1980-82      1984       1984    1980-82
Current Receipts                 12328        25.3        29.1        7342      13.3      18.6
Current Expenditure              14840        30.5        19.7        7635      13.8      11.1
Current Surplus                  -2512        -5.2         9.4        -290      -0.5       7.5
Capital Expenditure              8246         16.9        26.5       2783        5.0      14.9
External Assistance (net)         2760         5.7         '.7         -16       -         0.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1977    1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
M7 lli-ooN-air-a-Mtst-a~n-g Yn-rPerTo-JT
Money and Quasi Money                 7050    7691   9849  14390  15541  16887  19369  21601
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)   2068    3337   3439   3589   6607  10528  15825  18200
Bank Credit to Private Sector         3443    4723   5417   7191   9654  11372  12354  12942
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as S GDP        21.7    22.0   24.0   29.8   31.9   33.0   39.8
General Price Index (1975=100)       143.0   166.7  186.3  204.9  247.5  266.5  328.4 458.4
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                  15.4    16.6   11.8   10.0   20.8    7.7   23.2  39.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector        345.0    61.3    3.0    4.4   84.1   59.3   50.3   15.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector        42.8    37.2   14.7   32.8   34.3   17.8    8.6   4.8
- = Negligible.
Note: All conversions to US dollars are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
a/ Derived from planning documents and refers to the number of gainfully employed (based
on 1983 distribution).
bl Based on the Government Budget estimates, IMF data, and World Bank estimates.
May 1986



-27  -                                   ANNEX  I
Page 6 of S
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1984)
19d1  1982 a/  1983 bI  198. c/                                  US$ Mln          %
- lNiIionr USf 5JCrude Oil                                11568        96.8
Cocoa Products               331         2.8
Exports of Goods, nfs ,          18894     12703      10890    12341      Palm Products                   7
Imports of Goods, nfe            24190     18353      13865    10527      Tin                           NA           NA
Others                        42        0.39
Resource Gap (deficit - -)       -5296     -5650      -2975     1814                               -_               _
Interest Payments (net)            262      -599       -970    -1302           Total                  Ul948       100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)       -916      -709       -355     -501
EflERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1885 d/
Net Transfers                     -565      -430       -395     -332
USS HMl
Balance on Current Account      -6515      -7388      -4696     -321
Public Debt Including
-     -                        -           Undisbursed               16730
Direct Foreign Investment          546       431        365      293      Ron-Guaranteed
Private Debt
Net Official Borrowing             813      3040      3848       -64       Outstanding                1081
Disbursement                     1416      3677       4865     1911
Amortization                     -603      -637      -1017    -1975      Total Outstanding
and Disbursed             14257
Other Capital (net)                156      3630       2016      192
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1905 eI
Errors and Omissions                78    -1806       -1801        -
Overall Balance                  -4922     -2093       -268      100
Public Debt Including
Undisbursed                            33.7
Reserve Movements (Incr.-)        4922      2093        268     -100      Non-Guaranteed
Reserve Level                     3895      1802       1534     1634       Private Debt                             2.8
Fuel and Related Material                                                 Total Outstanding
xmports                                                                   and Disbursed
of which: Mineral Fuels          288       262       201       165
E-xports                                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING AS OF DECEMER 31. 1985
of which:  Petroleum           17401     12777      9857    11568                                   I             IDA
ZXUUNlCE RATE
EXC--ANCE RATE                                                        Outstanding and
1978 : Nl1.00   USS1.57                                                    Disbursed                  1267         34.7
1979 : N1.00 - USS1.66                                                    Undisbursed                 1011          --
1980 : N1.00 - USS1.83
1981 : N1.00 - USS1.63
1982 : N1.00 - USS1.49                                                    Outstanding Including
L983 . Nl.O0 - USS1.38                                                     Undisbursed                2278         34.7
1984   N1.00 - USS1.12                                                    mBRD/IDA share of External DOD            9.1S
IBRD/IDA share of External Debt Service 2.9%
- - Negligible.   NA - Not available.
a/  Provisional. b/ Official Estimates.
c/ World Bank Estimates. The 1985 80P cannot yet be completed
as the level of imports and debt data are still being reconciled
(see footnote d/ below).
d/ External Debt estimates refer to mediusi and long-term loans,
including S1306 million of the 1984-85 rescheduled uninsured trade
arrears. The KLT data base is presently being updated by EPD. The
DOD figures ac end 1985 are likely to be revised upwards. Estimates
of short-term debt range between 54.5-5.0 billion. It is expected
that between 53.5-4.0 billion of this, in the form of trade arrears,
is likely to be reconciled and rescheduled as HLT by end 1956.
e/  Ratio of .L debt service to exports of goods and nont-factor
services.



- 28 -                                                                Annex II
s_r eTAus or WK  ANaop onnoh
A.SAU T op 'asM awu  OPTAICIES T  WIN   nIA la
Loso               er                                                        LSS million
Lradit                                                             _a_ nell-lo-
umber   Year   Srrer    Puro                                       Ua IDa    Ui            reed
Twenty eight lons and two er dii flsly diebured                  713.7    35.3 lb
1191     1976      ligeria    1.E State Ol Pal s                   19.0                3.6
1591     1978      Nigeria    Nue. lat. Sallholdar Oil             30.0                0.0 sl
1597     1971     31Db         IndesCrilI Develpsent               13.9                3.3
In?7     1979      Nigeri.     Agric. Dee. - Hids                  23.0                1.7
3665     1979      Nigeris    Agric. Dew. - Ilarlr                 27.                 5.
1679     1979      NILe*ria    Forertry                           31.0                 1
1113     1979      Nigeria    Water Supply - Kaduna                92.0               52.?
1;y      3979      Nigeria    AgriC.  Rural  Pat, lust.            9.0                3.6
17b,    1390       NEPI        Powr Lagus                         100.0               4T.3
176?     1930      Nigeria    Urban Duealopesnt - kSuchl           17*5 e.7
113t     1950      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - Oyo-North              21.0               1 .6
135      19350P    Nigerl    Ag4ric. Dem. - Ek2ti-Akoko            32.5               15..
l1e3     3905      Nigeria     toads                               76.0               27.6
1951     3985      Nigeria    Agric. Dew. - Smucisi               132.0               26.e
1932     1931      Nigeria    Asrir. Dev. - "aco                  142.0               be.b
2C29     391       Nigeria    Tec. Atsttne -  rlo                  67.0               2.5
203.      195?     Nierit    Water Supply - Anambra                                   42.6
055       1952     NIEPA       Pawr - Dietriburlen                30S.0               33.3
:leS      19952    hgeris    Agrir. Dow. - Sokoto                 147.0               g6.1
229       1983     NIDb        luduslutrial DeIvelopa             120.0              107e.
23-!      19t.    N4ieria    Fertfliter lport                    250.0               50.0
:16       3Iff96   NBCI        Smell a Medi1m scale industry    41.0                  40.6
* '90      193l      NPC        tech. AIPts    - Cas Engineeriug    25.0               25.0
24136    3911      Nterts      Agrir. Dew. - Kaduna               122.0              121.7
2436     1985      N4igrl    Tech. AhSastauea                     13.0               1:.2
2503      9es      ligeria    Health - Sokoto                      34.0               3  0
?52:     1955      Nigeria    Uater Supply - torno                 72.0               72.0
26*.     1981      Nigeria    Urbn - lao                           53.0               53.0
5-a613      1935     Nigeria    luduecry - Tech,  esat.               5.0                5.0
2620     1905      Nigeria    trbas  - Lagos Solid Waste           72.0               72.0
Total                                                 2 72t 4      35  1.03 9.8
01 whicb has been repaid                               I3' 9         .s
Total outstanding                                     2_29.
Amount sold                        16.8
Of which baa been repaid          3e.t                    0.0
Total ow heald by Sank 3 IDA                          2,3bS.0    29.5
Total undiabursed                                                        1.0.9.3
I. STATIIENT OF 2 Fr INvESltflTS
(As of Harch 3. 193IS
Fiscal                                     Type of          Aount in ti4 Million
eeT                                        L-usineas         _  an   fulty    lota
196.. 19G6.    Aaro   Texcles. Ltd.       Textile nig.    1.0         0.6        3.6
196'            Nigeria Industrial         Dr%e. Fin. Co.             I.L        1.4
Developrst Bak Ltd.
19-3            Fuatuv  Cotton"ed          Vsg. 031        1.                    3 I.6
Crushing Ltd. Cruahing
19 27           Nigeria Alfiiw             Allnu            1.0 D      .3        ..3
Extruslon Ltd.             Proeeseing
14'.            Lefiagi Sugar              Sugar                      0.1        0.1
Estate
195,            #Tr                        Textiles.       f62:       0.7        6. 
19D?. 1985      Iheje Hotel                TDurstS        1I0.X       1..-      11.7
f lser et-rrer                    Dry-eel?         _          -           4 
TLN.,  Ratt.rtat%stie
Total gross commitments                   25.0        4.5       29.5
Lees cancellations. rernina-
tins. repsymest and tales                L..?       a.b        6.3
Total coltment now held by IF            20.3        2.9       f3.2
Cedibursed                                1.0        .2        I.
hot vel etiertlve.
'- 14, .et signer.
a  The Status D' the project, listed In Part A It described in a separate
report on aIl bank/IDA finaneod projeitS in execution, whiCh tI
upeated twie. yearly and circulated tr the Executive ISrercora oD
Arrl? 'k and october 3;.
lb  Prior to exchange rare arjusLtuewr.
.c  Esleoce toC small tr be TelIected isr. his cabI..



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELnPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country           2 years
to prepare the project:
(b)  Project prepared by:                Federal Govt. of Nigeria,
assisted by consultants
Cc)  Date of first presentation          January 1981
to the Bank:
(d)  Date of first Bank mission          September 1982
to consider the project:
(e)  Date of departure of the            February 1982
appraisal mission:
(f)  Date of departure of the            September 1985
reappraisal mission:
(g)  Date of completion of               December 1983
negotiations:
(h)  Date of completion of               February 1986
re-negotiations:
(i) Planned date of effectiveness:       December 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   The following conditions woild he fulfilled priox to loan
effectiveness:



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
vi; FHG and BSG have each deposited NO.6 million in the
SBADP's project account (para 49);
(ii)  an overdraft facility with a commercial bank for SBADPMU,
of N1.0 mn has been established (para. 49);
(iii) BSG would have established BADPEC and SBADPMU (paras 50
and 51);
(iv)  a chief agronomist would have been appointed (para. 51);
(v) BSG has assigned responsibility, including redeployment
of the required staff, for crop extension work in the
project area to SBADPMU (para. 52); and
(vi)  an Action Plan setting out details of the work program
proposed for the first project year satisfactory to the
Bank has been drawn up (para. 55).
.3.       other special conditions include the following:
Ci) SBADP and BOADAP would sell farm inputs including
fertilizer on the basis of full cost recovery (para. 40);
(ii)  SBADP would not operate more than 14 retail outlets for
the distribution of farm inputs including fertilizer and
would promote rne development of a private sector retail
network for tb':s purpose (paras. 40, 65 and 66);
(iii) Within opt vear of loan effectiveness, BSG would
prepare, in cooperation with FACU, and submit to the Bank
an action plan satisfactory to the Bank for the
privatization of the State's tractor hire unit
(para. 44);
(iv)  in the event that BSG were delinquent for two successive
quarters in paying in full its quarterly share of project
costs, FMG would pay into the rroject account BSG's
contribution directly from the State's statutory
allocation (para. 49); and
(v) BSG would provide in MANR's annual recurrent budget the
cost of staff seconded to the project and pay their
present salaries and allowances directly from its budget
(para 52).



IBRD 1BA15R3
A M                   rG lrr
N     I     G     E       R                   E       R                                                              NIGERIA
I BED ASSISTED
35 p V,__/.   ; AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
S~~~~~ NO 0 T                                                                                                                                                    _0rz
BE N IN                                                                                                                                                        O  <:br-  UD
S.. ...L. IBUI
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ,,. 0,                                                           S  ;.   ;e  =aa
C (HAD,
rEA U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.   U,~0-C
I.Oi   .A.-.II l-d NI
-IAE,,,, DIOSUNII
Ic..ST..0*G-*Au.
S.'.N  L-,ooLd '1I .r
-,e or         r       ene    _.- t.- --,     =-
Gu/Roi Gzeo \ <K                             _ lnl e ir                  =Im_lol e;                        ~S   ' , -_    3   NDan Lsret
_00 t _e * _~~~~~ > a t | =$ JUNg 1sa GqungR__ scdunde~~~~~~~~~~-L_ITM



