Document of
The World Banik
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14604
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2741-UNI)
JUNE 13, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             Naira (N)
US$1               =      NO.89 (at appraisal)
US$1               =      N4.50 (at redesign)
US $1              =      N22.00 (at closing)
US$0.05            =      N I (100 Kobo)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated all weights and measures used in this report are metric.
I metric ton ( ton)             2,205 pounds (lb)
I hectare (ha)            =     2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometre (km)          =     0.62 mile (ml)
1 meter (m)              =      3.28 feet (ft)
I milimeter (mm)          -     0.04 inch (in)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ADP           Agricultural Development Project
APMEU         Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
CFA           Cooperative Financing Agency
BADPEC        Borno State Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
BOSADP        Borno State Agricultural Development Program
DFRRI         Directorate of Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure
EA            Environmental Assessment
EC            European Community
FACU          Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FDA           Federal Department of Agriculture
FDRD          Federal Department of Rural Development
FEPA          Federal Environmental Protection Agency
FGN           Federal Government of Nigeria
FID            Fadama Infrastructure Division
FMA           Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FMWRRD        Federal Ministry of Water Resources and Rural Development
FUA           Fadama Users' Association
FUAD          Fadama User' Association Division
FASCOM        Farmers Supply Company
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILO           International Labour Organization
LGA           Local Government Area
LGC           Local Government Council
MANR          Ministry of Agricultural and Natural Resources
MSADP         Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
NACB          Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NALDA         National Agricultural Land Development Agency
NATSP         National Agricultural Technology Support Project (Loan 3483-UNI)
NATSFCC       National Agricultural Technology Support Fund Coordinating Committee
NFDP          National Fadama Development Project (Loan 3451-UNI)
NFF           National Fadama Facility
NFFCC         National Fadama Fund Coordinating Committee
PCC           Project Coordinating Committee
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PMU           Project Management Unit
RBDA          River Basin Development Authority
RDA           Rural Development Authority
SAP           Structural Adjustment Program
SBADP         Southern Borno Agricultural Development Project
SG            State Government
SIA           State Implementation Agency
TSC           Technical Service Contract
T & V         Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
YADPEC        Yobe Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
YOSADP        Yobe State Agricultural Development Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i



Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation   Summary   .......................                ........ ..... ...i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.     Introduction   ..1.......................           .. ..    ...   1
II.  Project Objectives                          .          ..2
III.   Implementation Experience and Results .. ..3
IV.    Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key
Lessons  Learned    ..........................................   .    12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
1.    Summary  of Assessments  ........................................... .  14
2. Related Bank Loans/Credits ...                  .......... 16
3.  Project  Tim etable   .......................................     ......  17
4. Loan Disbursements: Commulative Estimated and Actual ..              ... 17
5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation .... 18
6.   Key  Indicators  for Project Operation  .............................................  20
7. Studies Included in Project                      ..                    21
8A. Project Costs                           ..... 22
8B. Project Financing  . . . . .................................... 22
9. Economic Costs and Benefits .      .     ................................. 23
10. Status of Legal Covenants ..       .    .............................. 23
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements . ...                       26
12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs              .....26
13. Bank Resources: Missions                 . . . . ...... 27
Comments on Contractors/Consultants              ...         ..       .   28
APPENDICES
Appendix A - Mission's aide-memoire
Appendix B - Borrowers Comments on ICR



l



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2741 - UNI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Southern Bomo
Agricultural Development Project (later Borno/Yobe Agricultural Development Projects)
in Nigeria, for which Loan 2741-UNI in the amount of US$25.0 million equivalent was
approved on July 15, 1986 and made effective on March 13, 1987. The Loan closed on
July 29, 1994 instead of the original closing date of July 31, 1992. Final disbursement
took place on November 30, 1994, at which time a balance of US$455,619.21 was
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Bamidele Ilebani, AF4NG and reviewed by Mr.
Moti B. Rambocus, AF4NG, Mr. Surjit Singh, AF4AE, Mrs. Cynthia C. Cook, Division
Chief, AF4AE, and Mr. Franz Kaps, Operations Adviser, AF4.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision and
completion mission of August 20 to September 3, 1994. The field investigations, the
mission's Aide Memoire (Appendix A) and material in the project file are the basis of this
report. The Borrower's staff from the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU)
participated in the field mission and the Borrower provided comments on a draft report.
Although the Borrower has indicated that the Borrower's ICR is being completed, it has'
not been received.



l



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2741-UNI)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives'
1.    The Southern Borno Agricultural Development Project (later Borno and Yobe
ADPs) started in 1987 as an enclave project for the southern part of Borno State. It was
later extended to the whole state after a redesign in 1988, and in 1991 bifurcated into
Borno and Yobe ADPs. The project sought to increase agricultural production and to
improve incomes and living standards of about 500,000 farm families all over Borno State.
As a result of the positive impact of the earlier ADPs and in line with the government's
sector policy, the ADP was designed to provide a package of farmer support services,
including agricultural extension, improved seeds and distribution of farm inputs. The
project also included the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of 135 km, 475km
and 1520 km of roads respectively, and opening of 2,600 km of access tracks with
community participation. In addition, it was designed to provide potable water through
the construction of 750 hand-dug wells and 160 boreholes. Altogether, 50 storage ponds
were to be constructed for livestock. Also, a federal component, which was independent
of the state program, was intended to assist FGN in the planning and preparation of
nation-wide irrigation studies.
2.    The main covenants stipulated in the Loan and Project Agreements were: (i)
adequate provision of counterpart funding by the state and federal governments; (ii) the
state government creates and maintains satisfactorily a project executive committee and a
management unit; and (iii) the state would cause its agencies to sell farm inputs at full cost
recovery and assist the development of a private sector retail network for these. There
was partial compliance of all these covenants as counterpart funding was not always timely
or adequate; the project executive committee did not meet regularly and project managers
were changed often; and fertilizers were sold at subsidized prices.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Project implementation was generally satisfactory. Delays were experienced in the
course of implementation due mainly to counterpart funding problems, project redesign,
state creation, and slow procurement. In 1988, more than six months were lost on
formalization of project redesign and possibly about the same period of time was lost for
establishing separate ADP management units when Borno State was split into Borno and
Yobe States in 1991. Project monitoring and evaluation were inadequate. Actual project
implementation took about seven years instead of the five years estimated at appraisal.
'Objectives and targets are as reflected in the Redesign document of 1988.



ii
4.    Loan draw down was very fast at the beginning largely because the expatriate staff
were able to undertake speedy procurement without encountering delays at the political
level. Loan draw down slowed following the departure of the expatriate Program
Manager and take over of the ADP management by local managers. This was mainly due
to the lack of counterpart funding and attempts by political appointees to influence the
procurement process. During the redesign of the project, the Bank increased the disburse-
ment percentage for some categories of expenditures to compensate for some shortfalls in
counterpart funding. At closing, about US$0.5 million was canceled from the Loan
because some suppliers and contractors were unable to deliver goods and services on time.
5.    Implementation of the infrastructure component of the project suffered delays
because of inexperienced key staff in the Yobe ADP, and poor contractor performance for
buildings and road construction. Slow procurement delayed most of the building works in
Borno. However, Borno ADP performed very well in road construction through force
account. Efforts at opening rural access tracks with community participation were
seriously hampered by the decision of the Federal Government to provide parallel support
through the Directorate of Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure (DFRRI) but at no cost
to these communities. Also better mobilization of the rural communities by the ADPs
could have helped in achieving a higher success rate.
6.    Farmer adoption of the technical packages was very slow in the beginning, which
is not unusual, but could have been better if the planning and design of the On-Farm
Adaptive Research (OFAR) and On-Station Research (OSR) had taken into account fully
farmers' needs. However, as implementation progressed adoption rates picked up and
towards the end of the project life, farmers responded very well. It is very likely now that
outgrowers will completely take over the seed production component. During the early
years of the project, the Bank's field supervision was less intensive. However, with the
assignment of more supervision responsibilities to the Resident Mission staff, field super-
vision increased. FACU, which undertook supervision missions on behalf of the Federal
Government, provided implementation assistance in follow-up activities and helped in the
take-off of the fadama pump irrigation program and adoption of extension packages.
7.    Project monitoring (e.g., use of indicators of project performance, impact on
beneficiaries, budget implementation) was not carried out systematically; thus, project
reporting and evaluation were inadequate. Project management tended to accord low
priority to this activity. Although APMEU was able to give start-up leadership in
monitoring and evaluation, it was hampered by poor data from the ADPs and its own
staffing and logistics problems to make the required contribution during the project life.
As a result, data collected for impact studies could not be fully analyzed for publication.
8.    Results. Project objectives were achieved to a large extent. Unification of
agricultural extension has been undertaken and ADP extension activities cover all the
subsectors of the agricultural sector in the two states. Using the Training and Visit (T &
V) agricultural extension system, the number of contact farmers grew from 2,249 in 1987
to about 60,000 in 1994 thus making it possible for about 400,000 farm families to have



iii
access to improved farming technology. Outgrowers and the ADPs produced 891 tons of
seeds of which the ADPs resold 520 tons to other farmers.
9.    Inconsistent government support, long delays in procurement sometimes arising
from attempts by political appointees to influence the process, and poor performance by
contractors caused poor implementation in some aspects of the rural infrastructure
component. The ADPs, however, did well in constructing a total of 253 km of new roads
instead of the 135 km planned. 390 km out of 475 km were rehabilitated, and 1,220 km
out of 1,520 km were maintained. Low government commitment and insufficient project
management effort resulted in inadequate community involvement, and only 414 km of
the 2,600 km access tracks were completed. Except for the Yobe headquarters, which
was left unfinished, all buildings works were completed. The project also constructed 376
of the planned 750 hand-dug wells; 61 of the 160 boreholes; and 18 of the planned 50
livestock ponds.
10.   The project assisted farmers to secure farm inputs such as fertilizer, improved
seeds and credit. The ADPs sold/distributed 396,680 tons of fertilizer versus the planned
510,000 tons. The project succeeded in exposing more farmers to animal traction in the
state through the establishment of an animal traction training centre where about 380
farmers were trained. In the last three years of the project ADP staff assisted farmers to
secure N 8.6 million in credit from financial institutions. The small-scale pump irrigation
(fadama) component performed well. An area of 31,000 ha was cultivated, out of which
1,500 ha was due to direct project intervention. For further development of the fadama
component, 472 Fadama Users Association (FUAs) were formed. Federal studies of four
partially completed medium-scale irrigation schemes were successfully completed.
However, major technical, environmental, policy and management issues have emerged
from the studies and a careful review of these is necessary to determine future actions.
11    The SAR had estimated the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) to be 16
percent. Inconsistencies in management records and lack of robust data on agricultural
output do not allow for meaningful estimation of the farmers' actual gain. However,
comparable activities in adjoining states, Kano and Bauchi, show ERRs of 18 percent and
38 percent inclusive of the fadama component, and 10 percent and 16 percent without it.
This could be taken as indicative of the likely impact of the project in economic terms.
12.   Sustainability. The sustainability of the project initiated activities is largely
dependent on continued government funding of agricultural extension, OFAR, support
services for fadama development and maintenance of rural roads, and the
institutionalization of related service and user organizations. Government counterpart
funding for the ADPs has been adequate in the last two years of the project and, provided
political commitment is maintained, is likely to remain so in the future. Given the difficult
government budgetary circumstances in recent years, it is assessed that continued external
support would be crucial to the evolvement of the ADP into a sustainable institution in the
longer term. Follow-on Bank assistance for another two years has been made available
under the National Agricultural Technology Support Project (NATSP) and National



iv
Fadama Development Project (NFDP). Community-based organizations such as FUAs,
Water users Association (WUA) and Road Users Associations (RUA) would have to
increasingly share responsibility with the government to maintain services, works and
utilities.
13.   The overall outcome of the project is assessed as satisfactory largely on the basis
of the establishment of workable agricultural extension systems which are capable of
disseminating agricultural technology for meeting the objective of increased agricultural
production. Bank performance was generally satisfactory from project appraisal through
project completion. The decision to transfer supervision responsibility to its resident
mission was the right response to difficult country conditions. The Borrower's
performance was, on the whole, satisfactory, but project impact was reduced because of
inadequate counterpart funding and slow procurement.
Findings and Key Lessons Learned
14.   Some lessons that can be derived from project experience are summarized below:
(a)   To ensure compliance with provisions of the loan and project agreements
on project implementation, authorizing the Federal Ministry of Finance to
permit the Central Bank of Nigeria to deduct counterpart funds at revenue
source should be a major condition of loan effectiveness.
(b)   Given the frequent changes in State and Federal political administrations,
the Bank needs to educate new political appointees on project
conditionalities and their rationale.
(c)    The adoption of new technologies by farmers is dependent on price
incentives; macro-economic and sectoral policies that do not create a
favorable pricing environment, will jeopardize project success.
(d)   Provision of rural infrastructure can enhance the rate of adoption of
agricultural technologies and agricultural production, and the design and
location of these facilities should be done in consultation with the farmers.
(e)   Farmer involvement at an early stage in designing and testing new
technologies is essential.
(f)    The supply of farm inputs is best left to the private sector. Seed contract
outgrowers with proper assistance can become independent and self-
reliant suppliers. Also, farmers can independently source credit from
financial institutions, but need initial assistance with loan applications
and references.
(g)   The problem of poorly performing monitoring and evaluation units is a
generic one for many projects and the Bank needs to seriously review its
approach in this area, with the aim of improving the situation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2741-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. Introduction
1.01  Prior to the approval of a loan of US$25 million for the implementation of the
Southern Borno Agricultural Development Project (SBADP) in 1986, the Bank had
committed a total of US$1,525.70 million in loans for 27 projects in Nigeria's agricultural
sector (Table 2). These included two Livestock projects, one Forestry project, a
Fertilizer Procurement loan, six Tree Crops projects covering some Southern States and a
number of enclave and statewide ADPs, mostly in the north and "middle belt." The ADPs
with their semi-autonomous project management units worked to strengthen and expand
extension services and adaptive field trials, farm input distribution through Farm Service
Centres (FSCs); and to construct and upgrade rural feeder roads and provide potable
water to rural communities. These integrated development projects were designed to
improve the socio-economic status of rural dwellers.
1.02. With Bank assistance, the Government of Nigeria prepared and published the
National Food Production Plan (1981) which set a five-year target for bringing ADPs to a
larger segment of Nigeria's rural population.
1.03. On the basis of the visible success of the earlier ADPs and assessed annual
production growth of about 5 percent in some of them, the FGN resolved in 1987 that the
ADP system should be introduced to all the states of the Federation. This proposal later
manifested in the establishment of the state-wide Borno ADP and later the Multi-State
ADPs I, II and III. Currently, every state of the Federation (including the Federal Capital
Territory) has an ADP.
1.04  The FGN requested World Bank assistance for an agricultural development project
in Bomo State in 1978. A feasibility report was prepared in 1981. In the report, a
statewide investment program of US$311.0 million (N218.0 million) was recommended.
The project was appraised and negotiated, but could not be presented to the Board
because of general embargo on borrowing (for 18 months) by the Nigerian Govermment at
that time. Subsequently, a Bank mission met with the Borno State Government (BSG) in
September 1981 and agreed that the statewide ADP proposal would be revised to
concentrate on the southern area of the state, in view of its greater agricultural potential.
1.05  SBADP was re-appraised in September 1985 and the Board approved a loan of
US$25.0 million on July 15, 1986. The Loan and Project Agreements were signed on
October 31, 1986 (Loan 2741-UNI), and became effective on March 31, 1987. It covered



2
the southern one-third of the state. However, a project redesign was undertaken in 1988
and formalized in 1989 and the erstwhile Southern Borno Agricultural Development
Project (SBADP) was merged with the Borno State Accelerated Development Project
(BOADAP) which covered the rest of the state. The resultant Borno State Agricultural
Development Project was later split into Borno and Yobe ADPs when Borno State was
bifurcated into two states in 1991.
1.06  The loan was expected to close on July 31, 1992. Delays in formalizing the
project redesign, poor counterpart funding in 1988 and 1990, and tardy procurement
slowed down project implementation. As a result, at the closing of the loan on July 29,
1994, after a two-year extension, an undisbursed balance of US$455,619.21 was canceled.
2. Project Objectives
2.01   The primary objectives of the project were to increase agricultural production and
farm incomes and consequently the living standards of the farming population. The
project was to be implemented over five years and was to benefit about 500,000 farming
families by way of:
(a)   increased agricultural production through:
(i)   integrated farming systems revolving around trans-seasonal small
scale irrigation and livestock rearing, particularly on river flood
plains and shallow aquifers;
(ii)   production of high quality seed; and
(iii)  an integrated single extension service providing technical
knowledge on crop/animal production; agro-forestry, women-in-
agriculture and produce marketing;
(b)   road development involving the construction of 135 km of new
roads for irrigation development; rehabilitation of 475 km of road,
maintenance of 1,520 km of roads and 2,600 km of community
access track; and
(c)   rural Water supply through the provision of 750 hand dug wells,
160 boreholes and 50 storage ponds for livestock .
2.02  Also included was a federal component which was independent of the state
program and this was to assist the FGN in the planning and conducting of nation-wide
irrigation studies, and preparation of irrigation projects for external assistance.
2.03   The design of the project drew heavily on the experience of the Bank-financed
integrated agricultural development projects (ADPs) in Nigeria. These earlier projects



3
were considered successful and the appraisal mission reported the significant gains
achieved in crop production and infrastructure development in these ADPs. Amongst the
lessons learnt from earlier ADPs was the lack of maintenance of infrastructure and this
prompted the inclusion of community participation in road/track and water supply
maintenance.
2.04  Project objectives rightly placed emphasis on an integrated approach to
agricultural extension covering all sub-sectors. This was in response to the need to focus
extension on the farmer and farming systems and reduce the duplication of extension
activity undertaken by Government.
2.05   The inclusion of small-scale irrigation was reinforced by the finding of the
"Sources of Agricultural Growth" report (Agricultural Sector Memorandum of 1988)
which confirmed that small-scale irrigation was an important source of agricultural
growth in the country. Also the objectives on Federal irrigation studies were well
conceived given the need to improve planning in the water sector and improve efficiency
in the medium and large-scale irrigation sector.
2.06   Overall, the objectives were reasonable and consistent with promoting agricultural
development in Borno and Yobe States in particular and in the country as a whole.
However, the Borrower is now of the view that in concentrating exclusively on the needs
of small-scale farmers, the project by-passed an emerging class of medium and large scale
farmers and, therefore, missed out on the opportunity of fostering development of
commercialized agriculture. On the other hand, experience elsewhere suggests that in a
liberalized economy, this category of farmers can be effectively serviced by private sector
suppliers of inputs for most of their technical needs and besides they have the ability to
access both public and private sources of information and expertise. It is in the area of
provision of infrastructure, such as roads and ports, that the Government can play a useful
and enabling role.
3. Implementation Experience and Results
3.01   Achievement of Project Objectives. Apart from the rural water component (about
10 percent of project cost) which was poorly executed, and community participation in
rural infrastructure development which received very little attention from the communities,
the project achieved to a large extent the objectives as contained in the SAR and the
redesign document of 1988.
3.02   Agricultural Extension Services. Project performance in agricultural extension was
satisfactory. Prior to the introduction of the Training and Visit (T&V) extension system in
Nigeria, the process of dissemination of agricultural technology to farmers lacked
intensive contact with farmers and systematic and regular training of staff. The ADPs and
the ministries of agriculture had their own extension staff working in parallel in the
different sub-sectors. Sometimes conflicting advice was being provided. Also, farmers
had to relate to several extension agents. The T&V system uses a single line of technical



4
and administrative command through which a Village Extension Agent (VEA) provides
advice on improved agricultural technology on all sub-sectors of the agricultural sector.
The system strengthens the link between the farmers, extension workers and researchers.
In addition to making field visits, each VEA attends Fortnightly Training Sessions (FNTs)
during which Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) impart improved techniques to the VEAs
and in turn receive feedback from the VEAs. The SMSs and Resource Persons attend
Monthly Technology Review Meetings (MTRMs) to review adaptive research findings
and obtain feedback from VEAs.
3.03. Through the efforts of the implementing agencies (Borno and Yobe ADPs), the
agricultural extension system in the project area is now fully unified, i.e., farmers receive
messages on all aspects of their agricultural production through a single line of command.
The umbrella ministries have indicated their satisfaction with the arrangement especially
since costs are reduced. Most farmers, when asked, indicated a preference for the system.
3.04  Contact farmers increased from 2,249 in 1987 to about 60,000 in 1994, and these
farmers have trained other farmers and as a result about 400,000 farm families may now
have access to improved production technology. The two ADPs achieved an adoption
rate of about 55 percent for improved varieties and fertilizer for crops such as maize and
sorghum, according to available data at APMEU and the project monitoring and
evaluation units. No reliable information on yields is available and, therefore, the impact
on production growth cannot be quantified.
3.05  Rural Roads Construction. The project performed satisfactorily in its rural roads
program. For new road construction, the ADPs constructed a total of 252 km, thereby
exceeding their target of 135 km by 117 km (or 187 percent achievement). For road
rehabilitation the ADPs achieved 390 km from a target 475 km (or 82 percent
achievement). The recurrent maintenance also recorded about 80 percent achievement,
i.e., 1,222 km out of 1,520 km. The community aided access tracks recorded only 16
percent achievement (414 km out of a target of 2,600 km), mainly because of poor
community participation resulting from DFFRI providing such infrastructure in parallel at
no cost to the communities. It should be noted also that road construction was not
undertaken through private contractors because of refusal by some of the contractors to
take up short duration fixed price contracts during a period of volatile prices, which also
resulted in some bids being unacceptable because of very high cost.
3.06 Rural Water Supply. The ADPs' achievement for rural water supply was well
below targets. Of the target of 750 hand-dug wells, the ADPs dug about 376 or 50
percent while they constructed 61 boreholes out of a target of 160 or 38 percent. The low
achievement was due to the poor response from the contractors similar to that under the
road program. The ADPs constructed only 18 out of the planned 50 livestock ponds, also
because of poor contractor response and the inability of the ADPs to do them in-house.
3.07  Project Buildings. Construction of staff houses and offices was completed as
needed except for the Yobe ADP headquarters complex which could not be completed



S
before loan closing. Rising costs of materials slowed down the work, but the work
already done was of high quality. All the other 37 buildings planned were completed.
3.08  Commercial Services. The two ADPs assisted the farmers to secure various
agricultural inputs and credit. Through credit liaison activities, the two ADPs assisted
farmers to secure a total of N8.6 million from commercial financial institutions in the three
years of such activity. The ADPs distributed a total of 396,680 tons of fertilizer which
they received from the Federal Fertilizer Department. Supply and sale of other inputs was
well below projections due to poor counterpart funding, slow procurement and poor
demand from farmers because of the high cost of imported agrochemicals. Of a target of
1,012 tons of assorted seeds, the ADPs and their outgrowers succeeded in producing 891
tons. Out of this, 520 tons were sold to the farmers. Although the project did make some
attempts at using private distributors for inputs, the erratic supply and declining demand
did not help this effort at involving private dealers.
3.09 Fadama Development. Adoption of small-scale irrigation known as fadama was
quite satisfactory in the two ADPs. A total of about 1,500 hectares was brought under
cultivation through the drilling of 813 washbores and 155 tubewells within a period of
three years. The quick farmer response supported the contention that fadama was a
potential source of agricultural growth in Nigeria. More could have been achieved but for
slow procurement of irrigation pumps. Nonetheless, the project has set in place a system
that will generate further growth in this area. The ADPs have conducted shallow aquifer
studies and formed 472 Fadama Users' Associations which qualifies them for loan funds
from the National Fadama Facility (NFF) under the National Fadama Project (Loan 3451-
UNI).
3.10  Farm Mechanization. The ADPs introduced selective farm mechanization to the
farmers. An Animal Traction Training Centre was established and a total of 380 farmers
were trained. Also the ADPs sponsored the training for appropriate technology, such as,
plough manufacture. The animal traction program has assisted the farmers in land
preparation, and transportation of inputs and farm produce in the project area.
Unfortunately, no studies have been carried out to confirm the rate of adoption or
estimation of benefits.
3.11  Federal Irrigation Component. Apart from the Technical Assistance (TA) aspect,
this component of the loan, which was independent of the state program, was successfully
implemented. All the studies planned were fully completed. The studies helped to initiate
action on the master plan for water resources management in Nigeria, which is now being
undertaken with Japanese Government assistance. However, the TA aspect could not
meet its objectives because of frequent changes of senior management, which made it
impossible for the funds allocated for that purpose to be properly utilized.
3.12  Rates of Return. The SAR had estimated the overall Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) to be 16 percent. Inconsistencies in the project management records and reporting,
and lack of robust data on agricultural output (for some years of project implementation)



6
do not allow for a meaningful estimation of farmers' actual financial gains or of the
economic returns to the overall investment. The Borrower, however, contends that
APMEU does have the data and would be working out the ERR in its own ICR. Since it
has not been possible to verify the APMEU data, this report does not include an estimate
of the ERR of the project at completion. However, comparable activities in adjoining
states, Kano and Bauchi, show ERRs of 18 percent and 38 percent inclusive of the fadama
component, and 10 percent and 16 percent without it. This could be taken as indicative of
the likely impact of the project in economic terms.
3.13  Sustainability. The sustainability of the project initiated activities is largely
dependent on continued Government funding of agricultural extension, OFAR, support
services for fadama development and maintenance of rural roads, and the
institutionalization of related service and user organizations. Government counterpart
funding for the ADPs has been adequate in the last two years of the project and, provided
political commitment is maintained, is likely to remain so in the future. Given the difficult
government budgetary circumstances in recent years, it is assessed that continued external
support would be crucial to the evolvement of the ADP into a sustainable institution in the
longer term. Follow-on Bank assistance for another two years has been made available
under the National Agricultural Technology Support Project (NATSP) and National
Fadama Development Project (NFDP). Community-based organizations such as FUAs,
Water users Association (WUA) and Road Users Associations (RUA) will have to increa-
singly share responsibility with the Government to maintain services, works and utilities.
3.14  An Operational Plan (OP) for the project is attached as an annex to the aide-
memoire of the ICR mission. The two major areas addressed are: (a) sustaining the
physical achievements already in place and (b) sustaining other ongoing project activities.
On the maintenance of already created facilities, the ADPs have concluded arrangements
with the Local Government Councils (LGCs) and the rural communities to continue with
the maintenance of the rural roads, through the formation of RUAs while rural water
facilities would be maintained by WUAs. The maintenance of project buildings is
expected to continue with the normal state budgetary allocations to the ADPs. The
completion of the Yobe ADP headquarters buildings is expected to be funded by the Yobe
State Government.
3.15  The ADPs have been allocated a total of US$2.7 million under the Fadama Facility
to enable them keep the fadama program going for the next two years. Also, farmers are
expected to keep the program going through full cost recovery on irrigation pumps,
tubewells and washbores and by the farmers learning to carry out drilling for themselves.
Village mechanics are expected to keep the pumps working. The extension/adaptive
research component would be kept alive with a total of US$0.6 million already allocated
to the two states under the NATSP facility and continued counterpart funding by the State
Governments. The State Governments are expected to contribute a total of N 76 million
in counterpart funding in the next three years and an annual contribution of about N 20
million thereafter. Funding at these levels on a 1994 Naira basis would make a very
substantial contribution towards sustainability.



7
Project Cost, Financing and Timetables
3.16  At appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$39 30 million
(N38.50 million) of which the Bank was to provide US$25 million or 64 percent of total
project costs (excluding taxes and others). This cost was adjusted to US$33.6 million (N
151.20 million) during the redesign in 1988. At completion, because of the continuous
depreciation of the Naira, the total cost was equivalent to US$ 29 3 million.
3.17   The project, under a tripartite arrangement, was funded bv the Borno State
Government (later Borno and Yobe States) and the Federal Government of Nigeria in the
form of a grant, and a World Bank loan. Initially at appraisal, the Bank was expected to
fund about 66 percent of the total cost of the project, while the State and FGN were
expected to fund the remaining 34 percent in a ratio of 19 to 15. At redesign in 1988,
the figures changed to 71, 17 and 12 percent for Bank, FGN and State, respectively. At
completion, the actual funding percentages stood at 83, 12 and 5 percent, respectively. A
major reallocation of funds between the building/civil works and vehicles/equipment
categories was necessary because of greater use of force account in the implementation of
civil works (especially road construction) which necessitated the procurement of more
vehicles and equipment. The Borrower has expressed concern over high stocks of slow-
moving spares procured for construction machinery and vehicles used for force account
operations and unservicibility of some of the equipment. The attempt to transfer civil
works operations to the private sector would, therefore, have to be pursued more
vigorously in the future to avoid such situations.
3.18   At appraisal, the project was expected to be implemented over five years from
1987 to 1992. This implementation timetable was upheld at redesign in 1988 This
period, however, became unrealistic as a result of implementation delays caused by lack of
counterpart funding, slow procurement, project redesign and the bifurcation of the old
Borno State into Borno and Yobe States. The actual completion period was thus seven
years (1987 to 1994). Considering the average lifespan of agricultural projects in Nigeria
(eiglht years) and the time lost in finalizing the redesign exercise in 1988 and the
bifurcation of Borno into two states in 1991, the implementation period of seven years
could be adjudged satisfactory.
Major Factors Affecting Achievements
3.19   Factors affecting the achievement of the project objectives could be classified into
three broad areas: (a) factors not generally subject to government control; (b) factors
generally within government control; and (c) factors within the implementing agency
control.
3.20   Factors not within government control included political disturbances and labor
strikes in 1993 and 1994. This adversely affected implementation of road construction,
water projects and other civil works. For instance, the Yobe headquarters building was



8
substantially affected both by poor contractor performance and the disturbances and was
thus not completed at project closing. However, the effect of these factors on extension
and adaptive research was less severe although the non-availability of fuel and some
government services did handicap mobility and communications.
3.21   As for factors within government control, the project period fortunately coincided
with the government's Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) which was introduced in
1986. SAP provided incentives to agricultural producers and this assisted in the rate of
adoption of new farming techniques disseminated through extension and adaptive
research, and presumably assisted in boosting agricultural growth in the project area (Bank
estimates indicate annual growth for agriculture GDP to be 4-5 percent for the 5 years
leading up to 1993). However, lack of commitment on the part of some past governments
in the state resulted in inadequate counterpart funding and delays in the approval of major
contracts. All major procurement required approval from BADPEC (Borno State
Agricultural Project Executive Committee) chaired by the State Governor/Military
Administrator. BADPEC did not meet often enough. Also the bifurcation of the old
Borno State into Yobe and Borno States disrupted project activities substantially
especially for Yobe State where there were no proper working facilities for almost one
year after creation. Constant interference by government functionaries in the
procurement process, especially civil works, contributed to substantial delays in
completion.
3.22  The implementing agencies did not exercise their responsibility in getting the
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Units to adequately monitor the activities of the
project which could have provided a better Management Information System (MIS).
Also, there was inadequate budget monitoring on the part of management, which led to
inadequate budgetary releases for executing vital components like extension. At the early
stages of the project, some of the key staff were not familiar with the provisions of the
SAR and the Loan/Project Agreements and their actions were not always consistent with
the requirements of these documents. The management of the implementing agencies also
failed to alert the Bank or FACU when State Authorities prevented access to project
accounts, thus adversely affecting project implementation.
Performance of the Bank
3.23  In general terms, the performance of the Bank in the identification, appraisal and
supervision of the project was satisfactory. The project was identified by the Bank in
1978 during a mission conducted to carry out an agricultural sector study. The project
was to be a follow-up to other enclave and statewide ADPs as part of a government
strategy for agricultural development in the country. The project, like the other ADPs was
aimed at increasing agricultural production and farm incomes through improved
agricultural technology and infrastructure.



9
3.24. As there was in-country capability available, project preparation for newer ADPs
was done by the Borrower using the staff of FACU and APMEU. The Bank did not
participate in the preparation.
3.25   The project was re-appraised in September 1985. The appraisal took into
consideration the lessons learned from the execution of similar projects in Nigeria by
having fewer components and planning for community participation in infrastructure
development as a means towards sustainability. With the experience of FGN funding of
similar projects, the appraisal was thorough in recognizing the capability of the FGN and
the BSG with regard to funding. Their funding responsibility was consequently lower than
in earlier projects. Given the risks of macro-economic policies affecting incentives for
agricultural production the appraisal limited the project area to only the southern part of
the state which was climatically more favorable. However, with the government launching
a structural reform program in the second half of 1986, it was assessed that there was
scope for the northern part to also benefit from the project. Project costing was realistic.
3.26   The Bank's supervision of project implementation was satisfactory overall.
However, during the early stages of project implementation, field supervision of project
activities was hampered by air travel and road transportation problems. With
improvement in air and road transportation and delegation of more project supervision
responsibilities to the Resident Mission of the Bank, supervision became more regular, and
project staff were able to get assistance on time, and follow up actions by the Resident
Mission were timely and frequent. The various supervision Form 590s reported project
problems and ratings adequately, and the Bank chose persuasion and dialogue over
confrontation when the State Government acted contrary to project interest. Initially, it
was not the practice to include the Borrower's agencies in supervision missions. However,
after three years of project implementation, the Bank began mounting joint missions with
FACU and APMEU and this assisted tremendously in following up on actions agreed
during supervision missions. It also helped in reducing differing interpretations of project
concept and objectives and implementation procedures.
Performance of the Borrower
3.27. The performance of the federal government (Borrower), state governments, and
implementing agencies was on the whole satisfactory. However, at times the federal and
state governments did not fully play their role in facilitating project implementation.
3.28. FACU undertook project preparation, in consultation with staff of the Borno State
Ministry of Agriculture. The proposal was well synchronized with the sector strategy and
was fashioned after older ADPs which were adjudged successful. The preparation team
was conscious of the socio-economic aspirations of the population in the project area, and
the need for the project to benefit the whole state by including both the southern and
northern part of the state in the design. After Bank appraisal recommended that the
northern Borno be not included in the project area, the state and FGN resolved to fund
the northern part of the state under an Accelerated Agricultural Development Project.



l0
The project preparation took into account government financial policies and funding
lirnitations. However, little attention was paid to environmental factors during the
preparation.
3.29   The performance of the BSG, FGN (Borrower) and the implementing agencies
(BOSADP and YOSADP) were varied. Despite the favorable disposition of the FGN and
BSG towards agricultural development under the country's macroeconomic and sectoral
policies, sectoral allocations and budgetary releases did not quite match this intent. For
instance in budget speeches, the FGN and the state recognized agriculture and rural
development as the priority of government, but budgetary allocations seldom reflected
this.
3.30   The Borrower, through FACU and APMEU, assisted the project in institutional
development by frequently providing technical assistance to the project in the areas of
extension, adaptive research and niral infrastructure. APMEU's role in project monitoring
and evaluation assistance was hampered by inadequate staffing and logistics problems
at APMEU. Yobe ADP, which was later bifurcated from Borno ADP, maintained a stable
management team. However, Borno ADP changed its leadership several times and this
hampered project implementation.
3.31  The attainment of physical targets was directly affected by the performance of the
parties concerned. By setting up DFFRI, a parallel federal organization, to support rural
road construction at no cost to the communities, the government undermined the efforts
of the project management to mobilize nrral communities for the construction of
coommunity access tracks At the same time, project management did not itself make a
strong effort in this area. Involvement of political office-holders in the procurement
process, and late approvals of contracts by BADPEC, caused some infrastructure
components in Borno to be completed well behind schedule. In the case of Yobe, delays
arising from such actions were minimal and government commitment to the project strong.
However, the irnplementing agency could not meet all the physical targets because, after
the bifurcation of old Borno State, Yobe State inherited mostly inexperienced
management staff They also had to recruit new staff and needed time to establish an
operating managemnent structure.
3.32   Borno State made frequent changes of Program Managers and, for substantial
periods the ADP did not have a substantive Program Manager, which was not at all
conducive to project implementation. Also, project accounts were frozen by the
government twice without reference to the Bank. 'I'he counterpart funding by the
Borrower, even though below the SAR projections, was very timely and regular. Initially,
the old Borno State did not show full commitment to funding the project, but later on this
changed and counterpart funding by both Borno and Yobe states became regular up to the
time of loan closing.
3 33   Project monitoring and evaluation (PME) was not fully satisfactory. Project
monitoring (e.g., use of indicators of project performance, impact on beneficiaries, budget



11
implementation) was not carried out systematically; thus project reporting and evaluation
were inadequate. Project management tended to accord low priority to this activity.
Although APMEU was able to give start-up leadership in monitoring and evaluation, it
was hampered by poor data from the ADPs and its own staffing and logistics problems, to
make the required contribution during the project life. As a result, data collected for
impact studies could not be fully analyzed for publication. There were data gaps which
prevented proper analysis over the project period. Some impact studies were not
conducted. High staff turnover and lack of in-house analytical capability were the main
contributory factors. However, Yobe ADP with the assistance of APMEU did, late in the
project life, set in place a satisfactory PME system.
3.34. The component dealing with Federal Irrigation Studies will need follow-up by the
Borrower. The development potential of the selected four existing dams has been studied
but in all cases major technical, environmental, policy and management issues have
emerged. A careful review of these issues would be necessary before further actions on
investment are taken.
3.35  The Borrower has largely depended on APMEU to manage the preparation of its
completion reports. Bank's completion report missions have normally been undertaken
after receipt of APMEU's draft report. However, under the new procedures, ICR
preparation by the Bank and the Borrower are done in parallel, and the Borrower makes
the following point: ".. .where it is not possible to undertake a joint field exercise, the
Borrower's ICR exercise should precede the Bank's, as has been the case before the
present." Undertaking a field mission after the Borrower's ICR is received will not be
conducive to a timely completion of the ICR. All agriculture sector completion missions
for Nigeria conduct field visits jointly with the representatives of the Borrower and keep
the Borrower informed of findings. The Borrower is also provided with an opportunity to
comment on the Bank's ICR and these comments are taken into account in finalising the
ICR. If the Borrower's ICR is submitted to the Bank in reasonable time, it is included in
the ICR as an Appendix.
4. Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
4. 01 Project outcome is assessed as satisfactory on the basis of (a) the successful
establishment and operation of an agricultural extension system that would help increase
agricultural production through dissemination of improved agricultural technology; and
(b) the moderate achievements in rural infrastructure construction. Future project
operations are discussed under paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15. Post-project Bank funding for
two years is being made available for agricultural extension and fadama development
under the NATSP and NFDP. Some lessons that can be derived from the implementation
of the Southern Borno (Borno and Yobe ADPs) Agricultural Development Project, which
are of relevance to the Bank, Borrower and the implementing agencies, are summarized
below:



12
(a)   commitments made by state governments at signing of the loan and project
agreements are usually not honored when new administrations come to
power; authorizing the Federal Ministry of Finance to permit the Central
Bank of Nigeria to deduct counterpart funds at revenue source should be a
major condition for loan effectiveness,
(b)   because there are frequent changes in Chief Executives of States, the Bank
needs to educate new political appointees on project conditionalities and
their rationale especially those concerning key staff appointments and
proper management of project accounts;
(c)   frequent changes of Program Managers and other key staff have an adverse
effect on project implementation; future projects should require that the
Program Manager should not be changed without Bank and Federal
Government agreement and non-compliance should be treated as a
serious breach of the agreement;
(d)   the adoption of new technologies by farmers is dependent on price
incentives; macro-economic and sectoral policies that do not create a
favorable pricing environment, will jeopardize project success,
(e)   technological packages should reflect farmers' needs within the prevailing
socio-economic framework and agro-climatic conditions; planning and
organizational arrangements for extension/adaptive research activities
should be undertaken with the farmers involvement at the design and
testing stages to improve ownership of the technological change;
(f)    non-involvement of the local communities in the design and location of
rural infrastructures will discourage community participation in their
construction and maintenance;
(g)   small farmers can independently source rural credit from financial
institutions, but need help initially on making applications and providing
references, a role which the project can play besides promoting a
savings/banking culture;
(h)   the supply of farm inputs like irrigation pumps, chemicals and seeds should
ultimately be the responsibility of the private sector, with the project only
acting as a facilitator where necessary; and
(i)   establishing and operating a system for project impact evaluation is an
activity that requires skills and intellectual input that is not readily available
within the civil service or similar cadre of personnel. Use of long-term
contractual arrangements with universities or consultants companies may
be a better alternative.



13
PART H: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                       5                5                5
Sector Policies                      C                5                5
Financial Objectives                 5                                 5                  5
Institutional Development            5                                 5                  5
Physical Objectives                                   5                5                  a
Poverty Reduction                                     5                5                  a
Gender Issues                        5                5                5
Other Social Objectives              5                                 5 a
Environmental Objectives             5                5                5
Public Sector Management             5                                 5                  5
Private Sector Development           5                5                                   5
Other (specify)                      5                5                5                  5



14
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
(V)                      V)                        (V)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory         Satisfactorv               Deficient
(1)                     (/)                       (/)
Identification                                              EJ LI
Preparation Assistance             L                                                   l
Appraisal                           a                                                 LD
Supervision                                                L                          LI
Hi hly
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
(1)            (V)             (/)
Preparation                                                 LI              LI
Implementation                               a                             LI
Covenant Compliance                         El              El              0
Operation (if applicable)                    a              L              L
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactory
El             02)              LI                El



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                      Purpose        Approval Status
Preceedin2   Operations
1.    1092-UNI           Funtua ADP  Integrated Rural Dev. 1975  Completed
2.    1099-UNI            Gusau ADP          "            1975  Completed
3.    11 64-UJNI          Gombe ADP          "            1975  Completed
4.    1454-UNI            Lafia ADP          "            1977  Completed
5.    1455-UNI            Ayangba ADP                     1977  Completed
6.    1667-UNI            Bida ADP                        1977  Completed
7.    1668-UNI            Ilorin ADP                      1979  Completed
8.    1719-UNI            ARMTI        Agriculture/Mgt    1979  Completed
Training
9.    1838-UNI            Oyo North   Integrated Rural    1980  Completed
ADP         Development
10.   1854-UNI           Ekiti/Akoko         "            1980  Completed
ADP
11.   198 1-UNI          Bauchi ADP          "            1981  Completed
12.   1982-UNI           Kano ADP            "            1981  Completed
13.   2029-UNI           ATAP         Agricultural Tech.
Assistance         1981  Completed
14.   2185-UNI            Sokoto ADP  Integrated Technical
Assistance         1981  Completed
15.   2345-UNI           Fertilizer   Fertilizer Input Supply 1982  Completed
16.   2436-UNI           Kaduna ADP Integrated Rural Dev. 1984  Ongoing
17.   2733-UNI           MSADP I             "            1986  Ongoing
Following Operations
1.    2988-UNI           MSADP II                         1989  Ongoing
2.    2035-UNI            MSADP III                       1989  Ongoing
3.    3183-UNI            Nat'l Seed   Improved seed supply 1990  Ongoing
Plant Qua-
rantine
4.    2261-UNI            Agric.       Improved basic     1991  Ongoing
Resrch.      Research
5.    3451L-UNI           Fadama       Small Scale irrigation  1992 Ongoing
6.    3483-UNI            NATSP        Extension/ Adaptive
Research            1992 Ongoing



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Step in Project Cycle               Date Planned           Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
1. Identification                                          March 1978
2. Preparation                                             January 1981
3. Appraisal                                  -            February 1]982
4. Negotiations                     January 1986           March 1986
5. Board Presentation               March 1986             July 15, 1986
6. Signing                          July 1986              October 31, 1986
7. Effectiveness                    December 1986          March 13, 1987
8. Redesign                                   -            June 1988
9. Midterm Review                   March 1990             October 1991
10. Project Completion| July 31, 1991                      July 29, 1994
11. Loan Closing                    July 31, 1992          July 29, 1994
Table 4: Loan Disbursement: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ '000)
FY87   FY88   FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
Appraisal       600    2,800   7,100   12,800   19,600   25,000    0        0       0
Estimate:
Actual          1,109   4,570   5,714   6,208    8,671   12,431   15,400   20,988   24,500
Actual as % of    185    163    80.5   48.5     44       50       62      84       98
Estimate
Date of final disbursement -- November 30, 1994



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/President's Report        Estimated      Actual
I. Improved Farming Practices
1. Area Development (ha)                    40,000         50,000
2. Advanced Service Package
Area Development (ha)                    15,000          20,000
3. Project beneficiaries
- Contact farmers (No.)                  20,000         60,000
- Farm Families (No.)                    500,000        400,000
4. Average Farm Size (ha)                   __              1-5
5. Extension agent/farmer ratio:
From:                 1:1,500         1:1,200
To:                 1:1,000
62. Crop Yields (tons)Incremental/annum
- Maize                                  7,500          *
- Sorghum                                1,700          *
- Cowpeas                                3,600          *
- Millet                                  600           *
- Vegetable (onion, tomatoes and Pepper)  9,720         *
7. Research (No. of trials)
- On Farm Research (OFAR)                5,197           2,810
- On Station Research (OSR)              322             238
8. Seed Multiplication (tons)               1,012          891
- Direct Production by Project           278             149
- Outgrowers                             734             742
9. Input Distribution:
- Improved Seed (tons)                   1,012           520
- Insecticides (litres)                  46,000          )
- Herbicides (litres)                    19,500          )47,400
- Fertilizer (tons)                      510,000         346,400
II. Civil Works
1 Roads (Km)
- New Construction                          135            252
- Recurrent Maintenance                   1,520           1,222
- Rehabilitation                           475             390
- Community Access Tracks                 2,600            414
2 No reliable data is available.



18
Table 5: continued
Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/President's Report         Estimated       Actual
2. Water Supply
- Livestock ponds (No.)                   50              18
- Wells (No.)                             750             376
- Boreholes (No.)                         160             61
- Pumps (motorized)                       0               6
- Pumps (Hand)                            160             40
3. Buildings (No.)
- Staff Quarters                          22              19
- Farm Service Centres                    14              14
- Headquarters (including workshop, stores,    1          2
offices etc.)
- Guest House                             1               3
II. Staff Development and Training              _
1. Project Staff Training
- Trainees (No.)                           6,000           10,452
- Courses (No.)
- Overseas                                 200             67
Local                                  5,800           10,385
2. Farmer Training (No.)
- MTRMs (No.)                             103             95
- FNTs (No.)                              206             126
IV. Consultant Services (Man-months)
1. Basic Agricultural Management             250             150
2. Management training                       25              25
3. Hydrological studies                      25              25
4. Start-up operations                                       5
V. Other Indicators
1. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
- Studies (No.)                            10              4
- Progress Review Meetings (No.)           60              24
2. Seed processing equipment (No.)           I               I
- Production (ton/hour)                   2               2



19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
I    Key Operating Indicators in                 Estimated           Actual
SAR/Plresident's Reports
1.  Improved farming practice (ha)          40,000               50,000
2.   Average farm size (ha)                from 1.5 to 5 ha      2.5 ha
3.   Seed Multiplication (ton)               1,290                 891
4.   Construction of new roads (km)           135                  253
5.   Rehabilitation of roads (km)             325                  390
6.   Maintenance of roads (km)                210                1,222
7.   Community Access Tracks (km)            1,000                 414
8.   Construction of wells (No)               750                  376
9.   Construction of boreholes (No)                                61
10.  Construction of ponds (No)               40                   18
II   Modified Indicators
1.  Improved farming practice (ha)          40,000               50,000
2.   Average farm size                      from 1.5 to 5 ha     2.5 ha
3.   Seed Multiplication (ton)               1012                  891
4.   Construction of new roads (km)           135                   252
5.   Rehabilitation of roads (km)             475                   390
6.   Maintenance of roads (km)               1,520                1,222
7.   Community Access Trucks (km)           2,600                   414
8.   Construction of wells                   750                    376
9.   Construction of boreholes                160                    61
10.  Construction of ponds                     50                    18
11.  Fadama Development                    .                      1,500
III  Modified Indicators for
Future Operations
1.  Improved farming practice (ha)          10,000               N.A.
2.   Average farm size                      2.5 ha
3.   Seed Multiplication (ton)               1,000*
4.   Construction of new roads (km)           245
5.   Rehabilitation of roads (km)             475
6.   Maintenance of roads (km)                782
7.   Community Access Trucks (km)             610
8.   Construction of wells                    432
9.   Construction of boreholes                 80
10.  Construction of ponds                     40
11.  Fadama Development (ha)                20,000
*Seed multiplication to be done mainly by outgrowers while ADP provides certification.



20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined at                              Impact of Study
Study    Appraisal/Redefined                   Status
1.       Review of Operational efficiency of
existing irrigation schemes          Completed    Viable ones
already identified
2.       Water and Project Management          Completed
3.       Selection and Design of Irrigation    Completed
Schemes
4        Impact of Project Activities on the   Not yet
Beneficiaries                        completed
5        Feasibility Studies in Water Resources    Not yet   Some environmental
Development for Irrigation           completed    related questions to
be answered



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
AppraisalEstimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                         US$M)                         (US$M)
Local    Foreign      Total     Local  Foreign        Total
Costs                        Costs
1. Technical Services                   0.87        0.54      1.42       0.00       1.50       1.50
2. Agric. Investigation                  0.67       0.83       1.50      0.00       0.26       0.26
3. Fertilizer                            0.45       1.34       1.79      0.00        1.00      1.00
4. Other Farm Inputs                     1.39       4.48       5.87      0.08       0.80       0.88
5. Community Tracks                      0.21       0.38      0.59       0.02       0.03       0.05
6. Fadama roads                          1.59       2.23       3.82      0.02       0.22       0.24
7. Road Maintenance                      0.16       0.25       0.41      0.50       0.07       0.57
8. Rural Water                           2.66       1.40       4.05      0.11        1.11      1.22
9. Vehicles & Equip..                    0.79       0.76       1.54      2.22       9.70      11.92
10. Buildings                           0.07        0.06      0.13       1.10       1.00      2.10
11. Headquarters                        0.16        0.36      0.52       1.65       0.05       1.70
12. Project Management                  0.78        0.62      1.40       1.81       0.61      2.42
13. Manpower Develop.                   0.78        0.47      1.25       0.00       1.64       1.64
14. Planning,and M&E                    0.52        0.42      0.94       0.00       0.88      0.88
15. Finance                             0.32        0.35      0.67       0.25       0.51      0.76
16. Irrigation Studies                  0.62        1.88      2.50       0.84       1.50      2.34
17. Contingencies                       6.93        4.00     10.93       0.00       0.00      0.00
Total              |    18.971      20.37     39.33      8.60       20.88     29.48
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                            (USSM)                         (US$M)
Local    Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign      Total
Costs                           Costs
1. IBRD                                 5.30       19.70     25.00       3.60      20.88     24.48
2. Financing Instit. (FGN)               7.90       0.60       8.50      3.45       0.00       3.45
3. Other External Sources                0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
4. Domestic contribution                 5.80       0.00       5.80      1.55       0.00       1.55
(Borno and Yobe States)                   I_I_I
Total                    19.00      20.30     39.30       8.60      20.88      29.48
*FGN and State contributions converted at US$1 = N10.00



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No consistent data are available on direct project impact.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agrmt. Section  Covenant         Present Original  Revised
Type            Status  Fulfill-   Fulfill-    Description
ment Date ment Date of Covenant                   Comments
Ln.2741 3.01     3               C        02/28/87         Borrower shall out of             Fulfilled
the proceeds of the
loan relend $22,500,000
to the Government of
Bomo State under a
Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (SLA)
3.02(a)  4               C       02/28/87         Borrower and Bomno                Fulfilled
State Goveemment
to make available to
the Project an initial
sum of NO.6 million
each, being part of their
commitment to counter-
part funding.
3.02(a) 4                CP                       Both the Borrower and             Fulfilled by Yobe
Borno State Govenmment           State. However, to
to make budgetary                ensure timeliness of
provisions to cover the          releases, Borno State
counterpart funding of           Government issued a
$5.1m for the Project life.      letter of Authorization
to deduct from its
monthly Statutory-
allocation its monthly
counterpart funds till
loan closing.
2.01(b)  5               CP      03/15/87         Bomo State shall establish        Fulfilled but did not
and thereafter maintain          exercise its responsi-
BAI)PEC in a fonn and with       bilities wholly
membership, functions and        satisfactorily.
responsibilities satisfactory
to the Bank and the Borrower.
2.01(c)  5               C.      03/15/87         Borno State shall establish
and thereafter maintain a
BOSADPMU in a fomr and
xwith membership, functions
and responsibilities satis-
factory to the Bank and the
Borrower.



23
Agrnt. Section  Covenant        Present Original Revised
Type            Status  Fulfill-   Fulfill-    Description
ment Date ment Date of Covenant                  Comments
Ln.2741 2.02(b) 3                C       03/15/87        Bomo State shall authorize       Fulfilled
BOSADPMU establish
overdraft facilities of up
to NI,000,000 and fully
guarantee payment obligations
of BOSADPMU in respect of the
said overdraft facilities.
2.02(d) 4               C        03/15/87        Bomo State shall until the       Fulfilled
completion of the project
provide in the annual recur-
rent budget of the MANR
amounts adequate to cover
the full costs of all staff
redeployed to BOSADPU.
2.04    10              CP                       Bomo State shall assist the      Only limited
development of a private sector  attempts were
retail network for farm inputs.  made.
2.05    10              C                        Bomo State shall cause all       Fulfilled for
farm inputs (including          other inputs
fertilizer) required for        but
the project to be sold to       fertilizer
farmers at prices that would
permit BOSADPMU or any
other agencies of Borno
State carrying out such sale
to cover their full costs.
2.09    10              C                        Borno State shall duly fulfill   Fulfilled
all its obligations under the
SLA. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Borno State
shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the SLA
or any provision thereof.
2.1 0(b) 5              CP                       Borno State shall promptly       Yobe ADP
inform the Bank and the         complied
Borrower of any condition        very well,
which interferes or threatens   but Bomo
to interfere with the progress  ADP did
of the project, the accomplish-  not comply
ment of the purposes of Loan,   in most cases.
or the pcrformance by Borno
State of its obligations under
this Agreement and under
SLA.



24
Agrmt. Section  Covenant          Present Original  Revised
Type             Status  Fulfill-   Fulfill-    Description
ment Date ment Date of Covenant                     Comments
Ln.2741 3.01(a)           I       C                         Bomo State shall maintain          Fulfilled
separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with sound accounting
practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in
respect of the project of
BOSADPMU and other depart-
ments or agencies of Bomo
State responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part
thereof.
3.01(b)          1        C       05/31/93          Bomo State shall have the         Fulfilled
accounts referred to in para-
graph 3.01(a), the Project
Account and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
3.01(b)          I        C       05/31/93          Bomo State shall furnish to       Fulfilled
the Bank as soon as possible,
but in any case not later than
six months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scope and
is such details as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested.
3.01 (c)         I        C       12/14/93          For all expenditures with respect  Fulfilled
to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account wvere made on the
basis of SOEs, Bomo State shall
cause to be maintained, in accor-
dance with 3.01(a) above separate
records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; retain or cause to be
retained, until at least one year
after the Bank has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures, enable
the Bank's representative to examine
such records; and ensure that separate
accounts are included in the annual
audits of this section.



25
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                           8.  = Indigenous people
2.      Financial performance/revenue generation from            9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                           10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3.      Flow and utilization of project funds                   11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4.      Counterpart finding                                             allocation
5.      Management aspects of the project or executing          12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                          action
6.      Environmental covenants                                 13.  = Other
7.     Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with afler delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There were no cases of non-compliance with Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                  Planned                               Revised                          Actual
Project Cycle                              Weeks                US$(m)   Weeks   US$(m)   Weeks   US$(m)
Preparationto appraisal                        50.00               NA             40.00             NA             40.00              NA
Appraisal                                       5.00               NA              5.00             NA              5.00              NA
Re-appraisal                                                                       4.00             NA              4.00              NA
Negotiations through                            4.00               NA              4.00             NA              4.00              NA
Board approval
Supervision                                    76.50               NA             76.50             NA             98.00              NA
Completion                                      12.00              NA             12.00             NA              12.00             NA
Total                                          147.50                            141.50                            163.00
NA = Not Available



26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                Month/   Number  Days Specialized          Performance Rating
Project Cycle           Year       of       in    Staff Skills   Implemen-  Development  Type of
Persons3  Field Represented4  tation Status Objectives   Problems
Through appraisal       09-10/85      4       84      a,b,c,d
Appraisal through
Board approval         07/86         2       -        a,b
Board approval through
effectiveness          01-03/87       1      -         b
Supervision 1           08/87         2       5        a,b          1            I
Supervision 2           04/88         2       2        a,b          1            I
Supervision 3           11/88         3       7        a,b          2            2
Supervision 4           06/89         3       5        a,b,c        2            2
Supervision 5           02/90         3       5        a,e,b        3            3          Counterpart
funding
Supervision 6           07/90         2       5        a,c          3            3          Counterpart
funding
Supervision 7           02/91         2       5        a,e          2            2
Supervision 8           04/91         4       10       a,b,e        2            2
Supervision 9           11/91         4       10       a,b,e        2            2
Supervision 10          06/92         3       5        a,b,e        2            2
Supervision 11          11/92         3       5        a,b,e        2        Satisfactory
Supervision 12          07/93         3       5        a,b,e        2        Satisfactory
Supervision 13          12/93         3       5        a,b,e        2        Satisfactory
Completion              09/94         2       10       a,e          2        Satisfactory
Key:
a = Agriculturist
b = Financial Analyst
c = Agricultural Economist
d = Engineer
e = Operations Officer
3 FACU/APMEU staff also joined supervision missions. Missions from 1990 comprised mainly of local professional from Resident Miss
4 Engineers from FACU participated in all missions.



27
COMMENTS ON CONTRACTORS AND CONSULTANTS
1.    All the consultants employed under the Technical Assistance component of the project
appear to have performed their duties as expected. A total of 205 of the planned 300 man months
of consultancy services was utilized. The shortfall resulted from early take-over of the duties of the
South Borno Program Manager and the Director of PME by nationals. Also, the Federal Ministry
of Water Resources was unable to engage some of the consultants earlier planned.
2.    The unstable macro-economic situation particularly in the last two years of the project led
to difficulties with some contractors. Several contractors did not take up contracts after being
successful in their bids. Others did not fulfil their obligations. Yobe State could not utilize the
funds budgeted for 1000 Irrigation Pumps because of the inability of the contractor to deliver the
pumps before loan closing on July 29, 1994, even though the contract for the pumps was signed
in February 1994. The contractor only notified the project of his inabilty to perform in June, 1994.
The headquarters building for Yobe ADP could not be completed by the contractor by the closing
date, even though the contracted deadline for completion was six months before the closing date.






APPENDIX A
NIGEA                             -
LOAN 2741-UNI: SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (NOW BORNO AND YOBE ADPS) - IMPLEMENTAT1ON
COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) 1/
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    This aide-memoire summarizes the findings of the World Bank/FACU
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission which visited Borno and Yobe State
from August 20 to September 3, 1994 Z/. The main objective of the mission was to
carry out the ICR in conjunction with the borrower.
2.    In carrying out the exercise, the mission held meetings with the members of the
Project Management Unit (PMU), staff responsible for specific tasks, Honorable
Commissioners, Directors General and the Directors in the Ministries of Agriculture and
the Military Administrators of the two states. Since most members of the mission were
already familiar with the activities of the two ADPs, no field visit was made during the
mission.
3.    Apart from a few problems experienced with some contractors and suppliers (see
para. 24), the loan under the implementation of the two states was well utilized and
largely achieved the objectives for which it was granted.
Back2round
4.    In pursuit of its national policy for agricultural development, the Federal
Government of Nigeria (FGN) obtained in 1986 a loan of US$25 million for the
implementation of the Southern Borno Agricultural Development Project. The loan was
approved by the World Bank Board on July 15, 1986 and became effective in April 1987.
The project was later redesigned in 1988 to include the northern part of the State. In
1991, after the creation of Yobe State from the old Borno State, a Detailed Project
Implementation Progress Review was carried out jointly by the Bank and the borrower
during which the objectives and achievement targets were fine tuned.
Main Objectives and Targets
5.    Basically the project was designed with the following development objectives in
view:
(1)    Agricultural Development through;
(a)        rated  farming systems revolving around all-year small scale
irrigation and livestock rearing, particularly on river flood plains
and shallow acquifers;
1    A detailed ICR report which would be cleared-with the borrower would follow the
aide-memoire.
2/    The mission comprised Messrs: Dele Iebani (Mission Leader), M. Cheema,5A.
Nassim, Bola Ajala, P.P. S. Yadav and S. Chollom (FACU) -  -



(b)    production of high quality seed; and
(c)   an integrated single extension service providing technical
knowledge on crop/animal production; agro-forestry, women-in-
agriculture and product marketing.
(2)    Road development involving the construction of 135km of new roads for
irrigation development; rehabilitation of 475 km of road, maintenace of
1520 km of roads and 2,600 km of community access track.
(3)    Rural water supply through the provision of 980 hand dug wells, 160
boreholes and 85 storage ponds for livestock.
(4)    Federal irrigation studies that would provide the Federal Government with
consultancy services to assist in the planning and preparation of national
irrigation schemes.
Overall  civm
6.    Through the activities of the implementing agencies (Borno and Yobe ADPs), the
agircultural extension system is now fully unified and the parent ministries are happy with
the arrangement especially in the areas of cost reduction and less transmission of
confusing messages to farmers. Both Yobe and Borno ADPs now depend fully on
improved seed production by project trained outgrowers. The ADPs only ensure the
quality control aspect of seed production.
7. - Contact farmers increased fronm a low of 2,249 in 1987 to about 60,000 in 1994,
and these farmers have multiplied themselves by training other farmers in their areas
thereby covering about 600,000 farm families. The two ADPs achieved about 80 percent
rate of adoption of improyed varieties of crops and this bas led to an increase in yield per
hectare, increase in hectarages planted and increase in income generally.
8.    Under the new road construction program, the project constructed a total of 252
Km thereby exceeding its target of 135km by 117 im (or 187 permcet achievement).
Under road rehabiitation, the project achieved 39R hn from a target of 475 kn (or
82 per cent achievement). Also under the community access track, the project achieved a
total of 414 km from a target of 1,600 km (or 26 percent). Under recurrent maintenance,
the project achieved 1,222 km from a target of 1520 (or 80 per cent achievement).
9.    The project did wt do well in the area. of rural 'water supply. Out of a total of
980 hand dugwells, the project dug 376 or 38 per cent while it constructed 61 boreholes
out of a target of 160, represening about 38 per cenL Also the project constructed 18 out
of the 85 livesock& ponds planned, representig only 21 per cent in achievemean
10.   The project performed very wel in the construction of staff houses and the Yobe
office complex.
11.   All the studies planned under the Federal irrigation component were fully
completed. Ihe studies toroughly examined the advantages and disadvantges of largo-
scale irrigation projects, and-heped to initiate aclon on the m plan for war resourc
management in Nigeria. Four of the existing dams studied under the componear are nowv
ready for further development.



3
12.   The two ADPs under the commercial services assisted the farmers to secure-
various agricultural inputs. The most spectacular being rural credit from financial
institutions. A total of N8.6 million was secured during the last three years of the
project, for both male and female farmers. Farmers in the project area have imbibed the
culture of improved seed production and sourcing of institutional credit.
13.   The Fadarna component which started in response to the Sector Memorandum
published in 1989, was not in the original SAR. The component recorded a huge success
in the two ADPs. Within a period of three years, the two ADPs conducted shallow
acquifer studies and formed 477 Fadama Users' Associations which made them qualified
for the National Fadama Development Project Funds Facility. A total of about 31,000
hectares has been brought under cultivation through the drilling of 813 Was'hbores and 155
tubewells.
14.   The two ADPs also performed fairly well in the introduction of farm
mechanization to the farmers. An Animal Traction Training School was established and a
total of 380 farmers were trained at the School. Also the ADPs sponsored, the training of
private Blacksmiths at the National Center for Agricultural Mechanization for appropriate
technology. The animal traction option has been of immense assistance to the farmers in
land preparation, and transportation of inputs and farm produce, in the project area.
Proiect Funding and Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
15.   As of September 1, 1994, the undrawn balance out of a loan of US$25 million,
stood at USS2.9 million. Outstanding bills totalling about US$1.3 million are in the
pipeline for payment before November 30, 1994, (deadline for the withdrawal of proceeds
from the Loan). The mission was of the view that about US$1.6 million may not be
utilized at the close of business on November 30, 1994. In other words, this amount is
imminent for cancellation. This figure will give about 93.6 per cent total disbursement
over a period of seven year.
16.   At redesign, the Federal and State Govermnents were expected to contribute N23
million and N35 million respectively to project financing. The State Governmnet's
portion included a non-incremental cost of N 19 million. With the devaluation of the
Naira and increase in salaries and wages, the expected contributions were adjusted
upwards to N47.2 million and P381 million respectively. Eventually the Bank increased
its contributions to 78 percent from the initial 71 percent. As at, ICR, the FGN had
contributed a total of N436.5 million while the two states contributed a total of N 178.7
million representing 77 and 221 percent respectively. Impressive as the State Government
contributions look, initial nonchalant aftitude of the old Borno State-cd lates in
releasing the budgeted funds affected project implementation at the early stages. Even
though the FGN did not release 100 percent of expected funds, it should be commended
for releasing all budgeted funds as at and when due.
Major Constraints
17.   The mission identified some constraints under which the project was implemented.
These include:
(a)   Inadequate counterpart funding during the early stages of implementation;
-(b)  -frequent changes in project management - four Program Managers in
seven years; 



4
(c)   interference of State Executives in the procurement process;
(d)   frequent changes in the Honorable Commissioners of agriculture who
oversee the project - Eight Commissioners in seven years;
(e)   lack of adequate and experienced staffs for the Yobe component of the
project after bifurcation;
(f)    creation of a new state (Yobe) from the old Borno State; and
(f)    disruption caused by lack of accommodation and other facilities at the take
off stage of Yobe State.
General comrnents on Project Implementation
18.   Apart from the views of the Bank on Project Implementation, which have been
reflected in the early part of this aide-memoire, the mission sought the views of the
borrower (represented by FACU) and the Implementing Agencies (Bomo and Yobe State
ADPs and their parent ministries) on the whole project package and implementation. The
comments were centered on project identification, preparation, appraisal and
implementation.
Project Identification
19.   All the parties agreed that the Borno State ADP which was identifo4 in 1978, was
well conceived and has contributed positivery to the economy of the new Bomno and Yobe
States. It.was also aereed that the preparation which was carried out by the Bomno State
Government with the assistance of the FACU was well done. However, the Bank did not
contribute much to the preparation.
Proiect Aporaisal
20.   The project was appraised by the Bank in 1985. At appraisal, the Bank concluded
that the project initially planned to cover the entire state was not viable and instead
advised that the project to be limited to the southern part of Bomno State. During the ICR,
both the borrower and the implementing agencies felt this was a wrong decision at
appraisal considering the fact that the northern part has proved to be equally viable
agriculturally after the redesign.
Proiect Implementation
21.   The mission also sought the views of all the parties with regard to project
implementation. Some of the comments were specific on the various components as stated
below:
22.   Project Administration. The Bank, borrower and the Implementing agencies
agreed that frequent changes in project management will continue to delay project
implementation. It was grSIC that for futre projects, the position of the Program
Manager should be on contract with a consolidated renumeration package. It was agred
that removal of Program Managers in the future should be notified to the Bank before the
action. This position should be reflected in the Legal documents.
23.   Staffing. During -th- project implementation, Borno ADP did not have much
problem with staff shortages, but Yobe which inherited very little staff at bifurcation -



5
operated for almost two years with a few and inexperienced staff in some of the sub-
programs. This actually contributed to the inability of the ADP to fully utilize the funds
allocated to it at bifurcation.
24.   Proiect Finance Even though the project suffered inadequate counterpart funding
in the early stages of implementation, the situation improved towards the end of
implementation. However, it was agLped by all parties that future projects should have
their counterpart funds deducted from the state's share of the Federation Account. It was
also Weed that FACU's Finance Department should give more implementation assistance
to the Project Finance Department to ensure good accounting and budget monitoring.
This type of assistance was inadequate for the two ADPs.
25.   Procurement. Procurement suffered from late approvals by the ADPEC usually
chaired by the Governor, interference with procurement processes, lack of proper contract
administration and frivolous contractors ;1. In addition, the implemeating agencies and
the borrower felt that the Bank's wcumbersome' procurement procedures also delayed the
process. The Bank was of the opinion that future projects should have the Honorable
Commissioner of Agriculture as the chairman of ADPEC to ensure frequent meetings
necessary for contract approvals. However, the borrower and the implementing agencies
felt that the Governor should continue to be the Chairman since any action ratified during
such meetings chaired by him would be final. It was however, ageed that future Loan
Agreements should emphasize the need for the Governor to delegate the authority to hold
ADPEC meetings to the Honorable Commissioner who would be the Vice-Chairman. On
the Bank side, a procurement Analyst at the Resident Mission should assist to expedite the
process. Also, regular training by the Bank has greatly improved the procurement
process.
26.   It was also agreeable to all parties that future projects should make allowance for
Contract Administrators to ensure adequate monitoring of all contracts resulting from
LCBs, ICBs, and Price Quotations. Also Bank no-objections should carry a deadline to
ensure quick action on the part of the implementing agencies.
27.   Mobility. Except for Yobe which had-a delay in taking delivery of its project
vehicles, Borno ADP had enough and all staff were mobile. However, the State Military
Administrator expressed dissatisfaction with some of the saloon cars which he considered
too flashy. It was aeed that for future projects, project vehicles should be limited to
utility pick-ups and maximum of tree saloon cars.
Supervision and Implementation Assistance by FACU and APMEU
28.   The implementing agencies confirmed that Bank supervision missions were
adequate and very helpful. They also commended the implementation assistance of FACU
and APMEU but had some reservations on conflicting instuctions usually given at times
by FACU and the World Bank, especially on the extension activities, as confusing for
project implementation.
I/    The full ICR report will explain further the part played by some contractors to
stall utilization of Loan funds.



6
Prolect Sustainabiity
29.   The mission discussed the issue of sustainability with the borrower and
implementing agencies. The two major areas addressed were; (a) sustaining the physical
achievements already recorded and (b) sustaining other ongoing project activities.
30.   On the first area, the ADPs have concluded arrangements with the LGAs and the
nural communities to continue to maintain some rural infrastructures through the formation
of Water Users' and Road Users' Associations. On the second, the borrower and the
implementing agencies feel that getting farmers involved in the activities (like what is
being done under the Fadama Project) will ensure contuity. The Federal Ministry of
Agriculture (FACU) has also started some process on instituting an Endowment Fund for
the ADPs.
31.   One issue that is very key however is funding. Even though there were
assuarances from the state governments that the ADPs will continue to be adequately
funde, the implementing agencies opined that some Bank presence (no matter how
minimal) will continue to ginger the states not to renege in its funding responsibility to the
ADPs.
General
32.   The borrower and the Implementing agencies greed with the Bank that the
relationship between the ADPs and their parent ministries should be cordial. It was
3   that future projects should create room for some components to take care of
provision of some essential facilities to the parent ministries to make them feel part of the
project.
33.   Most of the staff of the implementing agencies stated that they were not familiar
-with project documents at the beginning of the Loan because expatriate staff kept them
secret. It was agreed that the pre-project launch workshops which have now become part
of Bank operations before Loan effectiveness would be further invigorated and should
extend to all key and sectional staff of the projects. It was also suggested that the
Financial Controllers and Internal Auditors should be part of the workshops in the future.
34.   Loan Covenants. The ADPs complied fully with 12 of the 14 covenants guiding
the project - The two covenants not fully observed concerned the key staff composition
(section 2.05 of Project Agreement) and frequent freezing of project accounts (sections
2.10 (b) of Project Agreement). The borrower and the implementing agencies felt that the
Bank was weak in this regard by not taking very ster measures agant such non
compliance to act as a deterent for other projects.
35.   All the parties jgrod that the Loan has largely served the purpose for which it
was granted especially by increasing farmers incomes and uplifting the statis of rural
women in the project area The borrower and the implementing agencies feel that in the
long run the project activities and achievements could be sustained through increased
participation of farmers in the schemes, as is already being done for fadama and by the
state and FGN remaining committed to funding.
Assistance Given to the Borrower for its own ICRE
36.   As a result of logistic problem, the Agricultural Projects Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (APMEU) - charged with the-preparation of borrowers ICR could not
join the mission, but participated in the wrap-up meeting with the mission. However,



7
FACU staff participatod fullyand have been introduced to the new ICR.procedures.' The
mission however made available to APMEU die guidelines on the new ICR preparation to
enable them complete the b'o;ower's ICR.                 -       p         to
Operational Plan fbr the Project 4/
37.   An operational plan for project sustainability will be prepared in conjunction with
the implementing ageniaes,Taind wvill be included in the draft ICR for clearance. 'he'
processing schedule f6r the ICR is attached as annexure to this report  '
38.   Finally, the mission would like to thank the Military Administrator of Bormn and
Yobe States, the Honorable'Commissioners for Agriculture in the two States, the Project
Management Units of the two ADPs and the Directors General and Directors of the
Ministries of Agriculture in Borno and Yobe states for their openness, kindness and frank
discussions during the mission.
39.   The missions findings presented in this aide-memoire are subject to review by the
World Bank management who would refer to them in correspondence in the nct few
weeks.
Maiduguri, September 15, 1994
For the Mission:
Dele llebani
(Mission Leader)
4I    The operational plan will be attached to the ICR draft for clearance by the
borrower and the implemnenting agencies.



Annm
Schedule of ICR Procusing
Activi                                  Timeame
1.    Transmission of the draft                   -
ICR to borrower for commet              Novmber 30, 1994
2.    Borrower trsmits comnents to
the Bank                                DecAmber 30, 1994
3.    Preparation of the gray cover
ICR                                     January 15, 1995
4.    Transmission of the ICR to
the Borro*er and the implementing
agencies.                               Febuary 15, 1995



LOAN 2741-Ulf SONO STATE AGRICUTURAL                       Annawe
DEVELOPMEN PPECr CO
OPERATIONAL PLAN
(90URCES OF FtNOVIG II
Swial fo   Sourcedo Fund                             m 1917 
U__m U   m   U        NM   USm Nu m             Rmarn
1.        FmFeral Gowerwnmn
of Ngeri (FON)                   650             6.50          MO   r5m on poig p nt
in hsch  or Fdwa arid
NATUP
2.        Borno StatOo_en-
-nw (SOSM
(a) Salay Budgt                 36.24           36.24           624 Noimal contrbution
(b) CWNIa budga                  12.00          14.00          14.00 from 5060
3.        Fedama Facllity            0.W   14.97   0.60  14.37                 Ttoh  ubaldry Loan Agr-
menwt  r Fadma.
sltf NATSP had been  ppmed
4.        NATSP Facylt               0.16   3.0   0.16    360
Paw.Mn Fund (nputs)       0.29   6.40            6.01                Sad hOpta une commercia
wir deartment.
S.        Olhce (Famen               0.20   640   0.29    640                  Farer con_b O  under
NFFP
_Total                     1.42  66.11    1.13   6.72   0.00  66.74 _ooo
II Dodr anouts h    ben convered to Nalr
uino  te oficI  ihag rate of N2160.






08/05 '95 17:48   V234 1 2611074    WORLD BANK LAGOS -- AF4AG.    APPENDIX E
SIGERUA
BARROWERS CONMENTS ON ffMETTO
UQMLETON EPOT:SOUTHERMN BORNO
AGRICUI'T IRAL DEVEOPMIENT PROJECT LN 2741  NI
In a letter dated March 1, 1995, the Agricultural and
Environmental-  Operations  Division,  Central  Western  Arica
Departmen't of the World Bank sought comments from Government on the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) prepared by the Bank on the
Southern Borno Agricultural Development Project in. respect of which
Nigeria obtained Loan No. 2741 UNT from the Bank.  The comments
which follow have been made after due consultations with the
implementing agencies of Borno and Yob. State Gox-arnments and a
diligent study of the text.
2v   General
2.1  The ICR' s independently prepared by the Agricultural and
Environmental Division, Country Department IV, Africa. Regional
Office of the World Bank and the Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit (APMME) of the Department of the Agriculture, Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Nigeria are
generally in agreement on the outcome of Southern Borno ADP
which was later expanded to cover Borno and Yobe ADPs.
Project objectives were achieved to a large extent, inspite of
the delays experienced in the course of project implementation
due, mainly to the bifurcation of the old Borno State, project
redesign as well as counterpart funding problems. The' lessons
of experiance which ths Report provides is bound to serve as
useful input to the design and implementation as well as
monitoring and evaluation of future projects.
2.2       The gap and variation in some of the data on achievements
recorded in the Bark's ICR are in contrast with the data base
kept by APMEU.  The Bank did not involve APMEU in its ICR



2
exercise. There was also no wrap-up meetinng with the borrower
at the end of the exercis;e, an opportunity which would have
been used to reconcile differences in data and clarify issues
was thus lost. These problems contributed to a large extent
to the gaps in data. The corrected data is attached as Annex
I.
The Bank's decision to undertake a separate ICR field exercise
from tbhe borrower, entails added costs in time, effort and
scarce resources. The Bank should review its new approach to
ICR. Where it is not possible to undertake a joint field
exercise, the Borrower's ICR exercise should precede the
Bank's, as has been the case before the present.
2.3     .Regrettably the Bank's ICR did not assess the performance
of the Mechanical Services component of the Project to which
a substantial amount of loan funds had been committed. An
assessment of the mechanical services is component bound to
lead to useful conclusions and offer helpful lessons, given
the large stock of slow moving spare parts, fleet of
unserviceable vehicles, plants and equipment that the
completed project is now saddled with.
3.  List of Acronzvms
3.1 The following acronyms should be corrected to reflect the
text:
a)  PA             -  Extension Agent
b)   Delete "FAUD  -  Faedam Users Association Division"
which is not found in the text.
c)  Insert "APMEU" -   "Agricultural Projects Monitoring,
Evaluation and Planning Unit."
d)  BOSADP         -  Borno State Agricultural Development
Programme.
e)  FDD            -  Federal Development Department should
be deleted and replaced wi  FDRD -
Federal Deparbnent of Rural
DQVQelPment.



08/05 '95 17:49  2P234 1 2611074   WORLD BANK LAGOS -- AF4AG.        I 005
; -    t.;
3
f)  Insert SBAIP   -   Southern Borno Agricultural
Development
Project.
g)   BADPEC         - Borno Agricultural Development: Project
Executive Commi-ttee.
h)   YOSADP         _   Yobe State Agricultural Development
Programme.
4,1  Vaxasxa2   :
Under this paragraph, the Report notes that "efforts at
opening rural access tracks with community participation were
seriously hampered by inadeqquaLte mobilisation of tie rural
communities by the ADPs and the decision of the 'Federal
Covernment to provide parallel support for the same purpose at
no cost.to communities." The reason for the low achievement
in community access tracks was not due to inadequate community
m.bilisation by the ADPs but rather to the failure to
streamline the Project's  activities  with  those  of the
Directorata of Food, Roads and Rural Inffrastructure, given the
complamentarity of the two organisations.
4.2  Paraarach 6:
Under th;I  paragraph, the Bank ascribed the slow pace of
adoption by farmers of technological packages at the beginming
of the project to the failure of tha planning and design of
the On-Farm Adaptive Research (OFAR) and On-Station Research
(OSR) to fully take into consideration farmers needs. It is.
difficult to accept this opinion for two main reasons: first,
imperical evidence from adoption of innovation studies point
conclusion to the fact that early adopters are quite small and



08/05 '95 17:49  2234 1 2611074    WORLD BANK LAGOS -* AF4AG.       Q 006
.4
that it takes time for agricultural innovations to be adopted
by the majority of potential adoptors. Secondly, the: outcome
of the diagnostic survey of the project which adequately
reflected farmers constraints was brought to bear on the
design of OFAR and ORS.
4.3 Paraarph 7:
Within the limits of the resources available to APMEu,
the Unit has tried to provide effective leadership  in
monitoring and evaluation to the Projects.  The follow-up
activities were to a large extent adequate.  Regrettably
Project Nanagement have not accorded Monitoring and Evaluation
Units due importance in terms of resource allocation.  The
need to strengthen APMEU and improve the internal capacity of
the M&E Units of the Projecis to provide robust and reliable
data is compelling.
4.4 ParaaraPh B2:
The achievemants of the Training and Visit System of extension
noted in the Report are quite valid. However, the system is
quite expensiva and may not be easy to sustain in its present
form.   The Impact Study of the T&V System of Extension
currently been conducted in the ADP system is bound to offer
useful lessons that could lead to its modification.
4.5  P&r.farn  hz 4. 5 &, 9:
Consistent references were made in the Report to "political
interference in procurement." This is an over-simplication of
the attempts made by Government to bring the ADP System within
normal procedures of conducting Government business, and
therefore  not  acceptable.      Moreover,  the  so-called
interferencQ was in no way different from the interests shown
by Government in the operation of external loan-assisted
projects, in suc.h matters as the appointment and discipline of
project staff, equitable geographical coverage of project
activities, as well as the attempts made to make Project



08/05 '95 17:50   ' 234 1 2611074  WORLD BANK LAGOS   AF4AG.        a 007
5
Mtanagement reach out effectlvely.to stake holders. Govternment
owes a duty to the Nigerian people to ensure that loan funds
for which they are indebted, are used judiciously in the over
all interest of the nation..
4.6  Paragz"nh a:
The results of project intervention captured in this paragraph
are valid.  Project objectives were achieved to a large
extent, as explained in an earlier section. Borno and Yobe.
ADPs succeeded in unifying agricultural extenision to cover all
sub-sectors using the T&v Agricultural Extension System. The
two ADPs were able to increase the number of contact farmers
from 2,249 in 1987 to approximately 60,000 in 1994, thus
making it possible for about 400,000 farm families to have
access to improved technology. The &DPs and their outgrowers
produced 891 tonnes of seed. The Project constructed4a total
of 253 km, compared to the target of 135 km, thereby given.
approximately  190  per  cent  achievement.    under  road
rehabilitation, the Project achieved 390 km compared to a
target of 475 km, approximately 80 per cent achievement.
Under community access track, the Project achieved a total of
414 km, compared to a target of 1,600 km (approxiately 25
percent).  Under recurrent maintenance the achievement was
approximately 80 per cent, i.e. 1,222 3m compared to a largest
of 1520 km.
4.7 Paragraph 13 - Sustainability:
Project sustainability must be viewed from a wide perspective
than the Report has attempted here . The report should have.
assessed the sustainability of the ADPs not only from
budgetary considerations but also from institutional technical
and environmental perspectives. Government has carried out an.
Indepth sttudy of ADP sustainability. While the ADP system.is
sustainable, it should be noted that the ICR has presented an
overly optimistic view of the subject based largely: on the



08/05 '95 17:50  20234 1 2611074   WORLD BANK LAGOS *- AF4AG.        0ooa8
6
trend in counterpart fundIng over a short duration of two
years - Also the weight given to the ability of FadamLa Users
Associations and the strength of revolving funds to keep the
fadama initiative going needs to be justified through
experience.
4.B Pa.ragah 1.2 - Mgonoma Rat. of Return:
The inabi;ity of the Bank's ICR to make firm. astimate of
farmers' actual gains from crop production is not unrelated to
the gap in data to which reference was made in paragraph 2.2
above. This subject is addressed more fully in a later
seation.
5.  XAfl REPORT
5.1  Paragraph 2.01:
The primary objectives of the Project which were to increase
agricultural production and farm incomes and consequently the
living standard of the farming population are quite valid.
Unfprtunately the emerging class of medium  and large scale:
farmers were bye passed by the ADPs which have concentrated
their activities exclusively on small scale farmers.  There.
is every reason to foster: the development of commercial
agriculture.  The design of future projects should.
reflect this need.
5.2  ParaQraDh 3.02 - Agricultural Extension:
It is not correct, as observed by the Bank in this
section of their ICR that extension activities were carried
out through ad-hoc and uncoordinated contacts prior to the
adoption by the ADPs of the T&V Extension system.   An
organised extension system, was in place with its relative:
strengths and weaknesses, prior to the adoption by the Project
of the T&V system as it is in most developing countries that
do not practise the T&V System.



.7
5.3 =,aD         _3. 4:
Th!e adoption rate of 80 per cent for improved varieties of
crops quoted in the Bank's ICR is on the high sida.  The.
adoption rate for improved seeds and fertilizer is about 55.
per cent according to available data at APNEU and at the
P.M.E. Units of the Projects.
5.4  3.05 Rural Roads Construction
The assertion that private contractors' inability to take up
road construction was due to  the  "highly  inflationary
environment"  prevailing  in Nigeria  is  incorrect.    The
contractor who won the bid  for road construction and later
turned down the offer, did so, not because of inflation but
because of his failure to properly appraise the physical
environment before tendering.   When he discovered, after
wining the bid, that laterite was not available on site and
that it had to be transported  over a long distance at'
considerable cost, he declined the offer-  This is the
singular incident that we are aware of.  Such an isolated
incident does not warrant the sweeping conclusion being drawn
here in the Bank's ICR. If the inflationary trend in Nigeria
were to dater contractors' jobs, we would not have the large
pool of contractors, foreign and local,  tendering  for
contracts in Nigeria.
5.5  ]aragraDh 3.12:
It is stated in this paragraph that "Inconsistencies in
project management records and reporting and cuestionable data
(for some years of project implementation) on agricultural
output do not allow for meaningful estimation of farmers'
actual financial gains or of economic returns to the :ovrall'
investment."  It should be noted that APMEU which conducted
the Borrower's ICR exercise,   was able to collect the
necessary data on agriculture and fadama components for the:
computation of ERR for these components.   The data were
obtained from the annual agronomic and farm/crop: budget



8
surveys conducted by tha PME units of the two ADPs.  Details
of these data can be founc in the Borrower's ICR. APMEU could
not, however, calculate ERR for rural roads and rural watar
supply due to lack of adequate data.  In this reg-rd, it
should be noted that the Redesign Document did not calculate
ERR for rural roads and rural water supply.
5.6  ParaoraDh 3.15
Unlike State contributions, Federal contributions to the
counterpart funding of the Projects were not reflected in this
paragraph. The paragraph should be amanded to reflect Federal
as well as State Government contributions to the Project.
5.7  ParagraDh 3.20
The Bank's ICR argues in this -section that the "political
disturbances and general strike action which almost paralysed
economic and social activities in 1993 and 1995" were among
thbe factors that affected the achievements of the Project.
The  prominence  given  to  the  few  months  of  political
disturbances during the period is highly exaggerated. The
disturbances and strike actions were mainly restricted to
south westarn Nigaria. They could not have had significant
impact on project implementation.
5.8 PaXaCTaDh 3.22
The issue here is lack of access to the SAR rather than  key
staff not being familiar with the provisions of the:SAR and
the  requirements  under  the  loan/project  Agreements  as
indicated in the report.  The fact is that the expatriate
management team who started the project did not make project
documents readily available to their Nigerian subordinates.
Some of the expatriate even went away with the documents at
the expiration of their contracts.



08/05 '95 17:52  V234 1 2611074   WORLD BANK LAGOS - . AF4AG.      0oi1
.9
5.9  Paraqrah 3-.2
5.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
The observation that Bank supervisions vera satirfactory is
correct. Bank supervision was quite  effective and helpful.
It shouid also be noted that joint World Bank/FrC=/ApX1E
supervision of ADPs started with this Project.
5.10 P1raArA" 3.28
FACCU was not in existence in 1981 and therefore could not have
undertaken the preparation of this Project, as stated in this
paragraph-  It was the Agricultural Projects MLonitoring,
Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEt) Which undertook the
preparation and participated in appraisal of the project.
5.11 Pa.rmg&Dh 3.33
Inspite of the staffing and logistic con      facing AP2MU,
the Unit did provide adequate technical assistance  and
gLuidance to assist the Projects carry out their nonitoring
and evaluation rerponsibi ities.  APDJ1 participated i-a the
World BanskJAPMEUFACU joint, supervision missions to the two
projects from  1990 to 1994, in addition to the support
missions the Unit sent to the ADPs on M&E. Regrettably, the
ADPs, particularly, the Borno component, was unable to
implement APMEU'rs recommendations because of high turnover of
EIads of I&E (six in seven years), appointment of unqualified
officers to head K&E and inadequate internal analytical
capability.
5.12 ParaOTaDh 3.32
In this paragraph, the ICR made reference on unnamed covenant
whiih the Report said was not fully observed by Borno State.
The covenant ought to have been clearly Spelt out for'ease of
reference and avoidance of doubt.



08/05 '95 17:53  V234 1 2611074    WORLD BANK LAGOS -. - AF4AG.
10
5.13 Fa.raagwap  4.0ol.1()
The lessons of exp-rience i dentified in thLis section are
generally valid. As indicated elsewhere in our comments, the
failure of Project design to address the neeAds of medium and
large-scale farmers has to be addressed if the establishment,
of parallel advisory service for this class of farmers is to
be avoided in future.   This lesson should not be over-
looked.In paragraph 4.01(h) the Bank's ICR suggested the us-
of long term contract arrangements with universities or
consultancy firms for project impact evaluation, because of
the dearth of "skills and intellectual Input" for the
establishment and operation of systems for project impact
evaluation in the civil service. While firms and universities
have an important role to play in external evaluation of
projects, the need for adequate Internal capacity to undertake
monitoring should be addressed. An important lesson offered by
Project experiences is therefore, the need for internal
capacity building within the ADPs and their supervising
Ministries to undertake project impact evaluation.
5.15 Page 15 Table 2
The average farm size of 5 hectares reflected in thls
table is on the high side.. The average farm size of 2.5
hectares, which the agronomic surveys conducted by the PME
Units of the Projects revealed is more realistic.
DEPARTKENT OF AGRICOLTURE,
FEDERAL MISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
AND NATURAL RESOURCES,
ABUJA, NIGERIA.
APRIL 1995






i






I MA-'l NT1lT
Reportt No:         14604
Type: ICR



