DoWm Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
0gy 2)Y/- C
Report No. 5933-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 23, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985      May 1986
Currency Unit =    Naira (N)             N
US$ 1         =    N 0.89             N 1.02
N I           =    US$ 1.12           US$ 0.98
(Exchange rates used in this report: US$P=N1)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated all weights and measures used in this
report are metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)     = 2205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)           = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)         = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)              = 3.28 feet (ft)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADP       -    Agricultural Development Project
APMEPU    -    Agricultural Project Monitoring Evaluation
and Planning Unit
AERMTI    -    Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
ATAP      -    Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
BADPEC    -    Borno Agricultural Development Program
Executive Committee
BOADAP    -    Borno Accelerated Development Area Program
BSG       -    Borno State Government
CBN       -    Central Bank of Nigeria
FACU      -    Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FARA      -    Federal Agriculture Recruitment Agency
FMAWRRD   -    Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources
and Rural Development
FMG       -    Federal Military Government
LGA       -    Local Government Authority
MANR      -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(state level)
PADAC     -    Project Agricultural Development Advisory Committee
PFT       -    Project Facilitation Team
SBADP     -    South Borno Agricultural Development Project
SBADPMU   -    South Borno Agricultural Development Project
Management Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOE OMCLAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ............................... (i)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................                (ii)
I.  INTRODUCTION .....................................1
II.  THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR .................................. 1
A.  Background ....................................               1 
B.  Government Strategy ................................. 2
C.  Sector Constraints .....................                     3
D.  The Bank's Role .....................                         4
III. THE PROJECT.                                                       5
A.    Oii  .............................................. 
a.  Origin.5 ............                                         6
B. Objectives.6
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ...................... 6
D.  The Project Area .................................... 6
E.  Project Description ................................. 7
F.  Project Costs and Financing ........................ 11
G.  Project Implementation ............................. 12
H.  Procurement ........................................ 15
T.  Disbursement ....................................... 17
J.  Auditing and Reporting ............................. 19
K.  Production and Markets ............................. 20
L.  Financial Impact and Project Sustainability ........ 20
M.  Benefits and Risks ................................. 21
IV.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED ............................... 22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. Chupak, Carr, Singh (Bank) and Sinkinson
(Consultant) who visited Nigeria in September-October 1985. Secretarial
services were provided by Mss. Akram and Buktaw, computer work by
Ms. Kail, and figures were checked by Ms. Ducran.
This document ba  rstrited disuibuton and may be usd by reipients only in the peforman
of thek officia duts Its cotents may not oterwie be diclsed without World Bank authoization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
1        Key Statistics of the Agricultural Sector
2         Agricultural Sector Constraints
3-1       Crop Development
3-2       Agricultural Services
3-3       Farm Inputs
3-4       Engineering: Roads
3-5       Engineering: Water
3-6       Training and Manpower Development
3-7       Federal Irrigation Studies
3-8       Table 1 - Project Cost Summary
Table 2 - Project Cost by Components and Years
Table 3 - Project Cost by Categories and Years
3-9       Program Financial Plan
3-10      Project Organization
Project Organization Chart
3-11      Monitoring and Evaluation
3-12      Project Implementation Schedule
3-13      LCB Procedures
3-14      Table 1 - Disbursement Schedule by Categories and Years
Table 2 - Disbursement Schedule by Quarters
Disbursement Chart
3-15      Special Account
3-16      Auditing and Reporting
3-17      Estimated BSG Debt Service
3-18      Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices
3-19      Economic Analysis
Maps
IBRD No. 15065R9 Nigeria IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects
IBRD No. 16447R Southern Borno Agricultural Development Projects



(i)
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available In Project File
A.  Background
1. Nigeria - Agricultural Sector Memorandum             4723-UNI
February 1985
2. Nigeria - Agricultural Pricing Policy                4945-UNI
June 1985
B. Project Preparation
1. Project Preparation Report, January 1981
2.  1983 Appraisal Report; and its working paper        3967-UI
3. FACU's Pre-Reappraisal Report, September 1985
C.  Working Papers
1. Agricultural Extension and Seed Multiplication
2. Farm Inputs
3. Engineering Services - Roads
4. Monitoring and Evaluation
5. Detailed Project Cost Estimate
6. Key Staff Job Descriptions
7. Economic Analysis



(ii)
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Beneficiaries:      Borno State and the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Loan Amount:        US$25.0 million equivalent.
Terms:              Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:    The Federal Government would on-lend on the same
term and conditions, US$22.5 mn to Borno State
Government, which would carry the foreign exchange
risk.
Project
Description:        The project would support the efforts of Borno
State Government to provide improved services to the
rural population in the better endowed southern
third of the state. It would aim to improve the
supply of agricultural inputs, strengthen the
extension service and develop small scale irrigation
as a means to increasing farm incomes and crop
output. It would support local communities in
rendering up to 1,000 km of farm access tracks
passable for an increased proportion of the year to
improve crop marketing. Some 135 km of new tracks
would be constructed to open up areas with irriga-
tion potential, to encourage the development of this
promising resource. It would assist rural communi-
ties to develop better domestic water supplies
through the provision of materials and skilled
artisans for the lining of hand dug wells. Project
management would assist with the development of a
more coherent long term organization for state
agricultural services during the course of the
project.
At the Federal level the project would support the
Government in planning and implementing of
irrigation studies, and the preparation of
investment proposals for irrigation projects.



(iii)
Estimated Costs:
Local          Foreign        Total
....... (US$ Million).
Southern Borno
Technical Services              1.6             1.3           2.9
Farm Inputs                     1.9             5.8           7.7
Roads                           2.0             2.8           4.8
Water Supply                    2.6             1.4           4.0
Workshops and Buildings         1.0             1.2           2.2
Management                      2.4             1.9           4.3
Total Base Costs - SBADP       11.5            14.4          25.9
Physical Contingencies         0.6              1.0           1.6
Price Contingencies             6.3             3.0           9.3
Total Project Costs - SBADP   18.4             18.4          36.s
Federal Component              0.6              1.9           2.5
Total Project Costs            19.0            20.3          39.3 a/
Financing Plan
IBRD                           5.3             19.7          25.0
Federal Government             7.9              0.6 b/        8.5
Borno State Government          5.8              -            5.8
Total                    19.0             20.3          39.3
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year        1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
. ............ (U.Ss Million).
Annual                   0.6    2.2    4.3    5.7    6.8    5.4
Cumulative               0.6    2.8    7.1   12.8   19.6   25.0
a/  Of which US$1.4 mn in duties and taxes.
h/ Represents foreign exchange element of fertilizer procured by FMG
and which is partly financed under the Fertilizer (import) Loan
(2345-UNI).



(iv)
Benefits
and Risks:          Project agricultural initiatives are expected
to increase food output and to open up new
possibilities for long term increases in production
through the expansion of small scale low cost
irrigation. The infrastructural development would
not only improve access and water supplies to rural
cozmmunities, but would provide also a lead in
developing lower cost alternatives to existing
services. The project's design is planned to
develop approaches to servicing farmers which would
be more closely aligned to the less ebullient
economic situation now prevailing in the country.
The main risks of the project are: (i) the ability
of the Federal and Borno State Governments to
provide adequate funding; (ii) inadequate
utilization or exclusion of private traders
affecting availability and distribution of
fertilizer and other farm inputs; (iii) delay in the
appointment of key staff; (iv) lower than
anticipated farmer response to project services; and
(v) adverse effects of price distortions emanating
from the Federal Military Government (FMG) trade
policy. Project design takes account experience
with earlier ADPs in order to contain these risks
and minimize the annual funding requirement of
Federal and State Governments.
Rate of Return      16%
Staff Appraisal Report No. 5933-UNI dated
Map       IBRD No. 15065 R9
IBRD No. 16447R
WAPAB
Jsme 1986



NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria has requested IBRD to
continue its rural support by funding an agricultural development
project in Borno State. A Bank review of the state's agricultural
resource base found that the semi-arid northern section has a relatively
low agriculture potential which could not provide an adequate return to
the level of investment envisaged. Hence it was decided that Bank
support would be limited to a project in the better endowed southern
part of the state. The Federal and State Governments have subsequently
implemented an Accelerated Development Area Program (BOADAP) over the
semi-arid northern section (about 2/3 of the state area). The present
proposals are intended to develop services in the southern area and
provide limited assistance in the north, while further attention is
given to finding a satisfactory basis for a statewide initiative which
would adequately relate resources and benefits.
1.02     Although the project is a continuation of the Bank's earlier
rural development initiatives in Nigeria, its concept has been modified
in the light of experience with existing Bank supported Agricultural
Development Projects (ADPs). In particular, the burden on the state
government's budget for the maintenance of roads and water supplies has
been reduced by supporting community initiatives. Construction of new
buildings has been minimized by making use of existing resources and by
involving the private sector in farm inputs distribution. Technical
Limitations to increasing the production of traditional crop mixtures
are recognized, and attention is focussed on those agricultural
initiatives which at present offer the best potential for development.
During project implementation, project management would work with the
state's ministry of agriculture to grapple with institutional problems,
which throughout Nigeria relate to the existence of a number of separate
agencies with overlapping spheres of responsibility for the supply and
development of rural services (para 2.07).
II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. Background
2.01      Agriculture continues to be the leading non-oil sector in
Nigeria, directly supporting about 60% of the population, providing 26%
of GDP, 5Z of total exports, and 98% of non-oil exports. Agricultural
production is almost entirely in the hands of smallholders; the typical
unit is a family of about 7 people farming about 2-4 hectares (ha).
Less than 1% of the total cropped area is covered by assured irrigation;



as a result, traditional rainfed cropping systems dominate agriculture.
The use of modern inputs, such as fertilizer, improved seeds, and
mechanized techniques, has expanded in recent years and contributed to
the growth in food crop production. The rapid rise in the urban
population has provided a ready market for local food crops and the
production of these is now a major source of cash for farming families,
with a corresponding fall in the output of traditional export crops to
which the over-valuation of the Naira has also contributed.
2.02      The farming community has shown remarkable resilience in the
face of adverse macio economic policies. and latest Bank estimates 1/
indicate that food production has largely kept pace with population
growth (about 2.7Z per annum) over the past fifteen years. This
indicates that production per farming family has increased, as a growing
proportion of the population has left the agricultural sector. However,
the overall demand for staple food grew at about 2.9Z per annum and part
of this growth was met by imports. Agricultural imports have either
been of "luxury" foodstuffs (dairy products, processed foods) or of
wheat and rice to meet a growing urban demand for alternative starch
staples to those locally produced (sorghum, millet, cassava, yams).
Significant quantities of maize have been imported for the poultry
industry. The recent curb on such imports has led to a rise in local
prices to farmers and an upward, but unquantifiable surge in food crop
production.
B. Government Strategy
2.03      The Federal Military Government's (FMG) major concern is to
prepare the economy for the post-oil era by developing a viable
agriculture sector, and reducing Nigeria's overwhelming dependence on
the petroleum sector. Nigeria's agricultural goals are stated in the
Fourth National Development Plan (1981-85) and are essentially the same
as those in the Third Plan (1975-80). Both Plans have emphasized the
following objectives: achieving food self sufficiency and higher
nutritional levels; promoting export crops; generating agricultural
employment; increasing the supply of raw materials for domestic
industry; strengthening the institutional framework; and improving rural
incomes and living conditions.
2.04      Influenced by a significant reduction in petroleum revenue,
there has been a substantial change in government strategies for
achieving these goals. The strong emphasis on capital intensive, high
cost, large scale irrigation schemes and state run mechanized farms has
given way to an increased emphasis on supporting smallholder production
for both the rainfed and irrigated sectors.
1/  Agricultural Pricing Policy, June 1985, Report No. 4945-UNI.



-3-
C. Sector Constraints 2/
2.05      Technical Factors.  The steady growth in agricultural produc-
tion from an expanding number of farming families has been achieved by
extending the area under cultivation. While further expansion is
possible in parts of the country, elsewhere pressure is growing to
intensify production per unit area. In the northern half of the country
with its low and erratic rainfall this transformation is hampered by a
lack of economically and managerially attractive technical innovations
for the dominant crops (sorghum and millet) and a lack of experience
with minor irrigation systems outside the tiny enclaves of specialist
vegetable production. The maintenance of soil fertility under
continuous annual cultivation provides an unfamiliar challenge to many
farmers who have relied on bush fallowing in the past, and economically
viable alternatives are not yet universally available. The national
research system has serious weaknesses and internationally funded
research has yet to produce significant results for the major crops of
the semi-arid zone. The Bank has offered to work with Nigeria to
address this problem.
2.06      Supply Factors.  Intensification of crop production requires
the use of a wide range of purchased inputs, particularly fertilizers,
insecticides and herbicides. Until recently, successive federal
governments have retained a monopoly over fertilizer supply and
distribution, which has resulted in restricted availability and
therefore a failure to fully exploit demand and its potential.
Recently, however, availability has significantly improved as a result
of a Bank financed Fertilizer Import Project (Loan 2345-UNI).
Furthermore, FMG has agreed to commercialize fertilizer distribution
through private wholesalers and retailers and to eliminate financial
subsidies by 1989 - down from 85% in 1983. The private sector has been
responsible for handling a range of other chemicals, but their supply
has been severely limited in recent years by a shortage of foreign
exchange allocation to cover import licences. This has resulted in
farmers having to pay scarcity inflated prices for the little that does
become available.
2.07      Institutional and Budgetary Factors.  The allocation of
responsibilities for supplying services to farmers is not clearly
defined. The Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural
Development (FMAWR1D), State Ministries of Agriculture, Local Government
Authorities (LGA), and a number of Agricultural Development Projects
(ADP) and Accelerated Development Area Programs (ADAP) all employ staff
2/   This section concentrates on the sector constraints which
particularly apply to the northern half of the country to which
Borno State belongs. However, a more general sector constraints
review is given in Annex 2.



- 4 -
who often have overlapping functions. This situation is compounded by
increasingly severe budgetary constraints (federal and state) resulting
from significantly reduced revenues, and a failure to adjust to the
overstaffing following the rapid expansion of payrolls during the period
of financial abundance. There is an acute shortage of operating funds,
staff morale is low and work programs are poorly focussed. The Federal
Government is addressing the institutional issue but a decision on
spheres of influence has yet to be made. Federal and state governments
are beginning to face up to the need to reduce payroll numbers and to
use more funds for operating expenditures. Staff retrenchment, however,
is a highly sensitive issue, and while some progress has been achieved,
many ministries, including agriculture remain overstaffed.
D. The Bank's Role
2.08      Agriculture has formed the core (48%) of the Bank's lending to
Nigeria, and as of June 30, 1986, to date the Bank has made 26 loans
totalling more than US$1.27 billion (net of cancellations) to support
projects covering rural development, tree crop, forestry, and livestock
development, technical assistance, and management training. The main
objectives of Bank assistance have been increased food production and
rural incomes; higher standards of living and strengthening state and
federal institutions responsible for preparing appraising and
implementing rural development programs. At the state level the Bank
has committed loans totalling US$947 mn for fourteen agricultural
development projects (ADP) with a total project cost of US$2.4 billion.
At the Federal level, three Bank-assisted projects are ongoing: (i) the
Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (ATAP) funds the Federal
Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) and the Agricultural Project
Monitoring Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU) which are designed to
strengthen the Federal Government's ability to prepare, appraise, and
supervise projects (including monitoring and evaluation); (ii) the
Agricultural and Rural Management Training Project (ARMTP) which has
established an institute (ARMTI) for providing management training to
project staff; and (iii) a fertilizer loan which provides assistance for
the import of fertilizer and should lead to (a) progressive
commercialization of the distribution system; and (b) elimination of the
financial subsidy by 1989. The Second Livestock Project is about to be
presented to the Board and the Second Forestry Project has been
negotiated and is awaiting government approval. FMG has requested Bank
support for a second Fertilizer Import Loan, the consideration of which
is contingent upon resolving macro-economic issues.
2.09      Lessons from Related Bank Funded ADPs.  The present proposals
have been influenced by four substantive lessons learned from completed
and ongoing ADPs in northern Nigeria. First, the difficulty of
increasing production from the dominant crop mixes of the area (sorghum,
millet and cowpeas) resulting in projects failing to achieve their crop
production targets by a wide margin. The current proposals are based on
more modest objectives. Second, the main areas of positive intervention
are with the non-traditional crops particularly maize and pure stand



- 5 -
cowpeas and the development of small scale irrigation. The proposed
project has paid particular attention to these. Third, Local Government
Authority (LGAs), which were responsible for Mdintaining roads
constructed under the projects have been shown to have inadequate
resources for this task. This project, therefore, focusses attention on
roads which are maintained by local communities and has not assum.ad that
LGAs would fulfill this role. Fourth, State Governments expected
contributions to project costs have generally proved to be greater than
available resources, resulting in serious fintracing problems for project
management. The current proposals are based on carefully updated
assumptions as to the likely state government allocations to the
agriculture sector.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin
3.01      The project originated in a Federal Government of Nigeria
request for the Bank to support an Agricultural Development Project
(ADP) in Borno State similar to other existing ADPs in northern
Nigeria. 3/ A project was identified by a Bank Agricultural Sector
Review Mission in early 1978. A feasibility study for a state-wide
project was completed by consultants under the supervision of the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture in January 1981. In view of the low
agricultural potential of northern arid areas, the Bank and Borno State
Government (BSG) agreed that Bank support would be limited to an ADP
covering the southern part of the state. An ADP was appraised by the
Bank in February 1982, and a loan negotiated in December 19133. A change
of government and a moratorium by the Federal Military Government (EMG)
on new borrowing resulted in a delay of 18 months before FMG finally
ratified the application for the proposed loan. During this period the
ongoing ADPs in neighboring states were facing severe problems of local
financing and in achieving their crop production targets (para 2.09).
Consequently, it was decided to review the original proposals in the
light of existing project experience. This report is the result of a
mission which visited Borno State in September 1985 to redesign and
appraise the proposals. This involved: (a) a change in the focus of the
agricultural intervention and the estimation of more modest crop
production targets; Cb) a new concept for improving rural access to
focus on existing access tracks being built and maintained by local
communities; (c) development of hand dug-wells and storage ponds instead
of boreholes; and (d) siting the project headquarter in Maiduguri
instead of Damboa as suggested originally, with significant cost saving
on buildings. Project costs fell from US$117.0 mn to US$39.3 mu.
3/ Kano, Sokoto, Bauchi Agricultural Development Projects, Loans
1982-UNI, 2185 UNI, and 1981-UNI respectively.



-6-
B. Objectives
3.02      The project has four main objectives: (i) increase farm
incomes and agricultural production through the improved supply of
inputs and information to farmers; (ii) investigate the potential for
further developing small scale irrigation in underutilized flood plains;
(iii) pioneer (for Nigeria) an approach to rural infrastructural
development which depends on community participation rather than public
service maintenance capabilities; and (iv) develop a pattern of rural
services which are more closely aligned to forseeable budgetary
allocations than those now functioning in the state.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.03      There are three significant reasons for Bank involvement in
the project. First, concerns of institutional strategy. In recent
years a number of institutions (para 2.07) have been developed within
the states to service farmers. The rationalization of this situation is
a concern of federal and state governments and the Bank. The recently
negotiated Multi State Agricultural Development Project (MS-ADP)
embodies strategies to move towards unifying services in the southern
and central states. The current proposals represent a move to-wards the
same goal in Borno State. Second, the project would support two new
avenues of development (low cost community based infrastructure and
small scale irrigation) at a time when local funding for incremental
expenditures is severely constrained and external support is required.
This could provide a basis for future initiatives beyond the boundaries
of Borno state and even Nigeria itself. Third, the adjustment of
government policies with regard to resource allocation. The decline in
Nigeria's foreign exchange resources has been so rapid that FMG's
adjustment policies have yet to adequately deal with the allocation of
foreign exchange for the purchase of imported agricultural inputs. The
Bank, through its Fertilizer Imports Project (Loan 2345-UNI) has
assisted with the supply of fertilizer. The financing of other inputs
is being assisted under ongoing ADPs and the project would continue such
support by financing imported inputs other than fertilizer (such as
pesticides and water pumps) required for the whole state. In the
meantime, the Bank is continuing its dialogue with FMG to improve import
licencing arrangements both for ADPs and the private sector.
D. The Project Area
3.04      The project area covers the southern part of Borno State and
includes two major ecological zones (IBRD map 16447R): northern zone
with an annual rainfall of approximately 700 mm which confines cropping
to sorghum and millet with limited scope for significant change using
existing available technology, and southern zone where rainfall
increases to 1,000 mm and a wider range of crops, including maize, can
be grown. This area is thinly populated and apart from isolated pockets
of fertile soil, there is little pressure on the land which has resulted



in the recent development of larger scale mechanized farms (para 3.09).
Three major river systems (Gongola, Hawal, and Yedseram) with their
flood plains provide the main opportunity for innovative agricultural
development (Fadama areas). 4/ The population of 1.2 mn is
overwhelmingly rural and consists of an estimated 170,000 farm families,
the great majority of which live in villages of less than 1,500 people.
E. Project Description
3.05      The project would consist of five major components: (i)
Agricultural Development; (ii) Access Road Development; (iii) Rural
Water Supply; (iv) Technical Assistance; and (v) Federal Irrigation
Studies.
Agricultural Development
3.06      Based on ongoing and completed ADP experience (para 2.09) the
project would focus on the non-traditional crops particularly maize and
small-scale irrigation. Furthermore, it has not proved useful to
present farmers with standard packages for the traditional crop
mixtures. Farmers would, therefore, be offered individual inputs from
which they could choose those that best serve their purposes. No
attempt has therefore been made to link the use of one input to another.
3.07      Increased grain production would be promoted by the use of
alternative varieties, seed dressing, improved weed control through
herbicide application, increased use of fertilizers and their more
effective utilization and the reduction of storage losses by chemical
means. It is anticipated that the bulk of such increases would be
derived from the maize crop. Cowpea output would be increased through
improved pest control in the field and in store. The better use of
fadama land would be fostered through improved access and availability
of pumps, seeds, plant protection chemicals and advice. (Annex 3-1 paras
8-13).
3.08      Project area work oxen are generally in poor condition at the
end of the dry season when they are most required for land preparation.
The project would improve this situation by providing supplementary
concentrated feeds from within Nigeria (e.g. palm kernel and cotton seed
cake), and by encouraging the use of new initiatives developed under
ongoing ADPs to improve the digestability of crop residues. Farmers'
response to such initiatives cannot be gauged at present and this report
does not put forward targets or attribute benefits to these initiatives,
which could, however, have considerable value. (Annex 3-1 para 14).
4/ Fadama: low lying areas subject to seasonal flooding, frequently
with a shallow permanent water table.



-8-
3.09      The project would improve the current extension service which
provides a broad geographical coverage but has little impact on farm
practices. Project extension staff would be selected from the available
cadre and would improve their performance through better organization.
mobility, goal setting and in service training. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that by June 30, 1986 Borno State Government
(BSG) would allocate to the project the required extension staff and
these would be selected by the Project Facilitation Team (PFT) [para
3.25] from existing staff in the state. The number of extension staff
allocated would be reviewed, by February 28, 1987, with FMG and the
Bank, with a view to maintaining said staff at the optimum level
required by project needs [para 4.01 (i)]. It was also agreed that BSG
would allow the Southern Borno Agricultural Development Project (SBADP)
to provide appropriate vehicles for purchase by extension staff on an
installment basis and pay designated travel allowances due to the users
[para 4.01(j)]. This would be combined with improved availability of
inputs which would provide key elements of extension messages. Several
hundred large scale ftrmers (with areas of 50 to 500 ha) in the project
area require a different level of extension advice and a special unit
would be established to meet their needs. (Annex 3-2 para 2-4).
3.10      Agricultural research information for the rainfed crops sector
is available from the large neighboring ADPs in similar ecological
conditions and from the major research stations covering the area and it
is not justifiable to duplicate this ongoing work. The main thrust of
project investigations would be into the more efficient use of the
floodplains and river banks. Emphasis would be given to providing low
cost methods of water control through the use of washbores, tubewells
and simple earth structures, and to combining these with the promotion
of supplementary irrigation of maize and rice where appropriate. This
is the sphere in which the greatest opportunity for future development
appears to lie. (Annex 3-2 para 6-9).
3.11      The project would finance the purchase of agricultural inputs
except fertilizer. Existing fertilizer stocks financed under IBRD
Fertilizer Loan No. 2345-UNI are considered sufficient for the project
needs up to the end of PY3. It is anticipated that the bulk of the PY4
and PY5 fertilizer requirements would be supplied either by Nigeria's
Fertilizer plant at Onne, which is expected to be in commercial
production in PY2, or a second IBRD fertilizer loan. Non-fertilizer
inputs (Annex 3-3) would be financed for the whole of Borno State.
Inputs would be sold to BOADAP for resale throughout its project area.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SBADP and BOADAP would
sell farm inputs including fertilizer on the basis of full cost recovery
[para 4.01 (k)]. Availability of imported inputs depends on the timely
issuance of import licenses and foreign exchange allocations when Na'ra
funds are to be used. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
necessary licenses and foreign exchange allocation would be provided to
the project [para 4.01 (1) and (m)]. No new project-operated retail
outlets would be established and the project would operate not more than
14 of the existing outlets. Consequently, the project would promote the



development of a private sector retail network for farm input
distribution. Assurances to that effect were obtained at negotiation
[para 4.01 (n)].
Access Road Development
3.12      The project would focus mainly on existing access tracks built
and maintained by local communities. Experience with existing ADPs has
shown that local government agencies assigned the responsibility for
maintaining new roads constructed under the projects have neither the
financial nor physical resources to fulfill this function. A similar
situation exists in Borno State; the existing Local Government Authority
(LGA) road network is not being maintained and there appears no
likelihood that this situation will improve. Consequently, further
additions to the system are not justified. The only viable alternative,
is to rely on communities to maintain the roads which are their economic
lifeline. Some communities have already shown considerable initiative
in this regard. The project would build on this by training community
teams in road maintenance work (para 3.16).
3.13      The project would increase the accessibility of about 1,000 km
of existing tracks which were constructed and are maintained by local
communities. Wet season use of this extensive access track network is
often constrained by inadequate watercourse crossings. The project
would cooperate with local communities to identify such barriers and
would provide necessary materials and assist in the construction of
improved crossings which would allow passage of light vehicles for most
of the year. To facilitate farm input distribution and crop marketing in
the riverine area, the project would provide spot improvement on about
150 km of existing access tracks and construct about 135 km of new
access tracks to high potential irrigable areas. Maintenance of this
new track development during project implementation period would be
undertaken by the project and thereafter by the communities (para 3.12).
However, as some of these roads would be serving new development areas
and new communities, it may become necessary, to allow time for
responsibility transfer, for BSG to maintain these roads beyond the
project implementation period. Assurances were obtained at negotiation
that BSG would maintain these roads for four years after road completion
[para 4.01 (o)]. (Annex 3-4).
Rural Water Supplies
3.14      Smaller villages (less than 2,000 people) rely entirely upon
hand-dug wells for their water supply.  Geological formations in the
project area are such that shallow aquifers (10-15 m) overlie rock
formations in which water only occurs at considerable depth. This
precludes the widespread use of shallow boreholes fitted with hand pumps
such as have been used in other ADPs. Therefore the project would
continue the tradition of previous development initiatives in the area
and assist with the digging, lining and deepening of open wells.
Communities would be provided with lining materials, tools and skilled



- 10 -
artisans to develop wells. Unskilled labor would be supplied by the
community as is now widely practiced. A provision has been made for a
drilling of up to 10 boreholes (tubewells) subject to the outcome of an
irrigation study [para 3.15(a)]. The project would assist with up to
750 wells and construction of up to 40 storage ponds for livestock over
a five year period. (Annex 3-5).
Technical Assistance
3.15      The project would provide about 25 man-years of
internationally recruited staff to assist in project implementation
(para 3.23). It would finance also short-term consultant services,
about 20 man-months, to provide specialized skills for the following
services:
(a) an assessment of potential irrigable areas using shallow
tubewells together with an estimation of their capacity. Such
work would only be commissioned after a review of the large
body of existing hydrological surveys had revealed critical
gaps of knowledge;
(b) a survey of existing farming systems to identify constraints
and possible new improvements. South Borno contains several
quite different farming systems, at least three of which are
in transition. Project management will have to review
available data during the first six months of the project and
then commission a survey to fill in the gaps in existing
knowledge. This will provide the necessary base from which
new initiatives in extension, input supply and research can be
developed;
(c) the preparation of an action plan as a basis for the
privatization of the state's tractor hire unit. This would
include an inventory of all available equipment, an assessment
of the market for tractors in the state and an estimate uf the
likely savings which would accrue to government as a result of
privatization. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
such an action plan would be prepared and submitted to the
Bank within one year of effectiveness [para 4.01 (p)]. The
implementation of a satisfactory plan would be a condition of
any future Bank lending to the agricultural sector in the
state; and
(d) such other agriculturally related studies as BSG, may consider
necessary with approval from FMG and the Bank.
Assurances were obtained at negotiation that consultants and Southern
Borno Agricultural Development Management Unit (SBADPMU) members (para
3.22) with qualifications and experience acceptable to FMG and the Bank,
would be appointed on agreed terms and conditions [para 4.01 (q)].



- 11 -
3.16      The project would cooperate with Borno Accelerated Development
Area Program (BOADAP) in providing training facilities to their own
staff and the communities within the project area. Project staff would
be trained both at the managerial and technical supervisory level in
agriculture, administration and accounting, vehicle and plant operation.
Maximum use would be made of the services of the Agriculture and Rural
Development Management Training Institute (ARMTI) (Ln. 1719-UNI) already
-stablished in Ilorin, with Bank support. Members of the local
community would be trained mainly in the construction and maintenance of
wells and access roads. (Annex 3-6).
Federal Irrigation Studies
3.17      A federal component of the project, entirely independent of
the Borno State development proposals, would provide the Federal
Government with consultants' services to assist in the planning and
preparation of nation-wide irrigation studies. The proposed studies
would include also preparation of irrigat..on projects for external
assistance. Study funds would total US$2.5 mn. The studies would be
directed by the Department of Water Resources in the Federal Government
in consultation with the Bank. (Annex 3-7).
F.   Project Costs and Financing
3.18      Total project costs over the five year development period are
estimated at US$39.3 mn 5/ of which US$20.3 mn or about 52% would be
foreign costs. If taxes and duties are excluded, total costs would be
US$37.9 mn. Base costs are estimated using prices obtained during
reappraisal and updated to levels expected to prevail in March 1986.
Project costs include (a) physical contingencies equal to 101 of base
cost for civil works, buildings and farm inputs and 5% for all other
items except tLchnical assistance, salaries and wages; and (b) price
contingencies calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies and
compounded annually using the following annual rates: all local costs
including salaries - 1986 22%, 1987 17%, 1988 16%, 1989 15%, and 1990
14Z; foreign costs - 1986 and 1987 7%, 1988 7.5%, 1989 7.7%, and 1990
7.6Z. Total contingencies are equivalent to about 38% of base costs or
28% of total project cost.
3.19      Project costs, which are snmmarized in Annex 3-8, and detailed
in the Working Papers, are incremental, covering those investments and
operational costs over and above the present expenditures by MANR in
comparable areas, estimated at US$1.4 mun a year in constant terms and
US$11.0 mn over the five year project period in current prices.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the BSG would meet the
5/  As the rate of exchange used is N1.00 - US$1.00, no indication is
made in the following figures to the N amount.



- 12 -
costs of all existing staff redeployed to the project for the project
implementation period [para 4.01 (a)].
3.20      The proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 =n represents 66% of total
project costs excluding taxes and duties (63Z of total project costs),
and would cover 97Z of foreign exchange cost 6/ and 28Z of local costs.
FMG would finance US$8.5 mn (22Z) and BSG US$5.8 mn (15Z). The Bank
loan of US$25.0 mn would be made available to FMG of which US$22.5 mn,
to fund SBADP, would be on-lent, on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan, to BSG under a subsidiary loan agreement drawn up between FMG
and BSG. This would be a condition of loan effectiveness [para 4.02
(a)]. BSG would bear the foreign exchange risk. The balance of US$2.5
nn would be retained by FMG to finance irrigation subsector studies.
The project cost of US$39.3 mn or N39.3 mn together with non-incremental
costs of US$28.6 mn (US$11.0 mn for existing staff and US$17.6 mn for
non-incremental fertilizer) would require a program funding of N67.9 mn,
as detailed in Annex 3-9, to be financed as follows: IBRD - N25.0 mn
(37%): BSG - N17.4 mn (26%); project farmers - 115.7 mu (23Z); and FMG -
N9.8 mn (14%).
G.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.21.     While the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Rural Development (FMAWRRD) would be responsible for ensuring that the
project was carried out in accordance with the project and loan
agreements, Borno State Government (BSG) would have direct
responsibility for implementing the Southern Borno ADP (SBADP)
component. At the apex of the state project organizational structure
would be the Borno Agricultural Development Program Executive Committee
(BADPEC). This committee would result from a modification of an
existing committee - the Borno State Acclerated Development Area
(BOADAP) Executive Committee established under Gazette notice in April
1985. BOADAP Executive Committee would be retitled the Borno
Agricultural Development Program Executive Committee (BADPEC) and its
functions and powers amended to include SBADP. Its membership would be
increased with the inclusion of (a) the Head of FACU; (b) the Project
Manager; and (c) a fifth member representing the State Development zones
as selected by the Constituent Local Government Councils. Schedule 2 to
the enabling Edict would be enlarged to include the Local Governments
(in the project area) of Bama, Gwoza, Askira/Uba, Damboa, Gujba, and
Biu. The Executive Committee would otherwise perform the duties and
responsibilities as described in the Edict. The new committee (BADPEC)
6/   The less than 100% financing of foreign costs occurs as part of the
fertilizer is financed under the Fertilizer (import) Loan
(2345-UNI) and part is expected to be either from domestic
production or financed by a second IBRD fertilizer loan.



- 13 -
would be chaired by the Borno State Governor and would be responsible
for coordinating project activities with other ongoing development
programs especially the Accelerated Area Development Program; providing
policy guidance, approving annual work programs, budgets and ensuring
that adequate funds are made available in a timely manner. The
Committee would consist of the following members or their
rep;esentative: Borno State Governor (Chairman); Commissioner of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (Vice Chairman); th.e Commissioners of
Finance and Economic Development, Rural De-elopment, Works and Housing,
Local Government; the State Attorney-General; the Secretary to the
Military Government; Permanent Secretary, MANR; SBADP Manager; BOADAP
Manager; representatives of the Development Zones; the Director of the
Federal Department of Rural Development (FDRD), and the Head of the
Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU). (Annex 3-10). The
establishment of BADPEC would be a condition for loan effectiveness
[para 4.02 (b)].
Project Management
3.22      Key features of the project management structure relate to the
need to provide cost-effective services, close coordination with LGAs in
providing roads and water. a merger with BOADAP and adequate manpower
development for the planning and long-term implementation of statewide
rural development. The project management structure and its
institutional arrangements follow the pattern established in the
Multi-State ADP and would be the foundation of a statewide operation,
should this materialize. The project would take over, within the
project area, the responsibility for crop production services of MAMR
and Ministry of Local Government with the exception of the Tractor Hire
Unit (THU) (Annex 3-2). This would improve institutional efficiency by
Ci) establishing a more cohesive and effective operation for the south;
and (ii) creating human and organizational foundation for a potential
statewide project. The project would cooperate with BOADAP in (i) staff
training and manpower development; (ii) monitoring and evaluation; and
(iii) farm input supply and distribution. Considerably more adaptation
of BOADAP strategies in other areas will be required before the two
projects can be merged, and until then BOADAP will continue operating in
the north and SBADP will operate in the south. At the apex of the
project operational management structure would be the SBADP Management
Unit (SBADPMU), headed by a Project Manager and having as members the
heads of the seven project divisions (Annex 3-10); Chief Agronomist;
Chief Engineer, Chief Administrative Officer; Financial Controller;
Principal Commercial Officer; Senior Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Officer; and the Senior Training Officer. SBADPMU would be responsible
to BADPEC for establishing and operating SBADP in accordance with BADPEC
policy directives, and in accordance with the conditions of Project and
Subsidiary Loan Agreements. The establishment of SBADPMU would be a
condition for loan effectiveness tpara 4.02 (b)]. SBADP would submit,
for the Federal Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (FDARD)
approval and Bank information, along with the annual budget, an annual
action plan approved by BADPEC for buildings, roads, water supply,



- 14 -
procurement, and agriculture development. These submissions would be
made at least four months prior to each fiscal year. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations tpara 4.01 (r)].
Staffing and Technical Assistance
3.23      SBADPMU would employ about 600 staff of which about 530 are
already state employees. Some 70 staff, mainly for the engineering
division, would be employed for the project implementation period only.
SBADPMU would recruit its agricultural staff requirements from existing
MANR and LGA staff, under procedures successfully developed by FACU
under the Bank-supported Kaduna ADP and now to be implemented under the
recently negotiated seven state Multi-State ADP. To assist in project
implementation, the project would provide about 25 man-years of
internationally recruited staff including the (i) Project Manager; (ii)
Financial Controller; (iii) Chief Engineer; (iv) Chief Agronomist; (v)
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Officer; and (vi) Roads Engineer.
(Annex 3-10). The appointment of the first three would be a condition
of Board presentation (para 4.03). The appointment of a chief
agronomist would be a condition of loan effectiveness [para 4.02(c)].
Project Headquarters
3.24      Although Maiduguri, the state capital is some 80 km north of
the project area, the project headquarters would be sited there for two
important reasons: First, siting BSADP headquarters at Maigurugi would
facilitate cooperation with BOADAP and be the optinum location for the
management of a statewide operation should this materialize. Second,
offices, workshops, houses, electricity and water are already available
in Maiduguri and would require relatively small incremental
expenditures. All of these would have to be constructed at any of the
available sites within the project area; costs would be extremely high
and place an unacceptable burden on the state budget. In addition to
the project headquarters in Maiduguri, there would be two zonal offices,
one at Bama serving the eastern part of the project area and a second at
Biu covering the southern and western parts.
Role of Federal Institutions
3.25      Three existing federal institutions would provide
implementation assistance to project start-up and with carrying out
individual components:
(a) Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) (para 2.08)
would be responsible for assisting in project start-up,
implementation and supervision for FMG. Start-up
assistance would be provided through a Project
Facilitation Team (PFT) comprising FACU staff and, if
necessary consultants, following a pattern already
successfully tested under the Bank-supported Kaduna ADP
and Multi-State ADP. The PFT would be set up jointly



- 15 -
with BSG officials who would act as counterparts to FACU
team members. The PFT would assist in the establishment
of a management unit and the development of first year's
work program which would be a condition of loan
effectiveness [para 4.02 (d)];
(b) Agricultural and Rural Development Management Training
Institute (ARMTI) (para 2.08) would provide services and
support to the project training program; and
(c)  Federal Agricultural Project Monitoring Evaluation and
Planning Unit (APMEPU) established under the Agricultural
Technical Assistance Project (para 2.08) would provide
technical assistance for project monitoring and
evaluation and would oversee ex-post evaluation.
3.26      A project monitoring and evaluation unit would be established
which would work in close collaboration with that which now serves
BOADAP. Its monitoring function would be designed to provide an
information system on which management can make its policy decisions.
The evaluation section would focus specifically on those project
initiatives which are expected to provide its benefits. For this
purpose a series of clearly defined impact studies would be carried out,
rather than any attempt to measure the overall evolution of agriculture
in the project area. (Annex 3-11).
3.27      The project would be implemented over five years; starting
December 1986 with completion expected by July 1991 (Annex 3-12). All
staff selection and appointment, international and local, would be
completed by June 30, 1986. Staff selected from existing cadres (para
3.23) would be redeployed to the project by June 30, 1986; this would be
a condition of loan effectiveness (para 4.02 (e)]. New roads and
dug-wells would be constructed in approximately equal tranches over the
five year implementation period. About 50Z of the Bank loan would be
disbursed in PY4 and 5 representing the increasing use of farm inputs.
With project implementation already under way [para 3.30(c) and (d)],
the project could be expected to be completed on time. However, there
could be slippage on project start-up if necessary FMG approval followed
by Bank Board presentation is delayed.
H.   Procurement
3.28      Procurement arrangements are simnarized as follows:



- 16 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement 7/
(US$ Million)
Procurement Component                ICB   LCB/LIB  Others    Total
1. Buildings & Water Related                  5.2       0.1        5.3
Civil Works                             (4.4)     (0.1)      (4.5)
2. Plant, Equipment, & Materials    2.8       0.7       2.1        5.6
and Spare Parts                (2.8)   (0.6)      (1.3)      (4.7)
3.  Vehicles                          1.1     0.1                  1.2
(1.1)                        (1.1)
4. Consultants, International                           3.1        3.1
Salaries and Training                              (3.0)      (3.0)
5. Farm Inputs                       6.0      0.6       3.4       10.0
(6.0)   (0.2)                (6.2)
6. Operating Costs and                                 11.6       11.6
General Services                                   (3.0)      (3.0)
7. Federal Irrigation Subsector                         2.5        2.5
Studies                                            (2.5)      (2.5)
Total                         9.9     6.6       22.8      39.3
IBRD                         (9.9)   (5.2)      (9.9)    (25.0)
3.29      It was agreed at negotiations that all goods and services
financed under the Bank Loan would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines [para 4.01 (s). Contracts valued at US$300,000 or more for
plant, vehicles, construction, materials and farm inputs would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB), and a margin
of preference applied to 15% of CIF bid price or actual customs duties,
whichever is less, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers.
Purchases would be grouped into packages of at least US$300,000 whenever
possible. Contracts valued at less than US$300,000 but more than
US$60,000 would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) or
limited international bidding (LIB) under procedures acceptable to the
Bank. LCB procedures used by BSG have been reviewed, and with the
7/   Contingencies are included in the amounts shown.  Amounts within
parentheses indicate IBRD portion.



- 17 -
exceptions detailed in Annex 3-13 are acceptable. Contracts of less
than US$60,000 would be procured through direct competitive shopping
based on at least three quotations. Items would be bulked to permit
optiumm use of competitive bidding. Contracts for works such as
buildings (mainly staff quarters), small earth dams and concrete rings
for wells because of scattered sites would be procured through LCB
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, but would provide international
contractors in Nigeria an opportunity to participate. Roads would be
constructed on force account but the construction and maintenance
equipment for such works would be procured by ICB in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Procurement under ICB and LCB procedures would total
US$16.5 mn.  US$22.8 mn would be procured through other procedures which
are as follows: (a) force account and local shopping for operating costs
and general services costing US$9.9 mn; (b) employing internationally-
recruited staff, consultants and training services in accordance with
Bank guidelines costing US$5.8 mn; (c) local shopping of equipment,
materials and farm inputs costing US$2.7 mn of which US$0.6 mn is
procured indirectly through ICB procedures under IBRD Loan 2345-UNI.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all bidding packages for
goods and services over US$300,000 and for buildings and civil works
over US$500,000 would be subject to the prior review of the Bank [para
4.01(t)]. This would result in a coverage of about 80Z of the value of
such works.
I.        Dtsbursement
3.30      The Bank loan of US$25.0 mn would be disbursed over six years
beginning first semester of IBRD FY87 through FY92. The disbursement
schedule provided in Annex 3-14, while being shorter than that for the
Nigeria historical disbursement profile (8 years) for agricultural and
rural development projects, is considered realistic for the following
reasons 8/:
(a) The project cost in Naira terms is only 29% of what it
would have been under the ADP design used for other
completed and ongoing ADPs to which the historical
disbursement profile applies.
(b) Because the Federal and State annual funding burden is
relatively small, averaging about N1.7 and M1.2 mn
respectively throughout the project period, problems over
counterpart funds which have caused delay in earlier ADPs
are less likely to occur.
8/   An eight-year disbursement schedule would raise project cost from
US$39.3 to US$50.2 mn and the economic rate of return would drop
from 16% to 13%.



- 18 -
(c) Early recruitment of incremental project staff numbering
only 70 (six internationally-recruited) and the heavy
reliance on existing staff would provide sufficient lead
time to organize procurement according to procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The Program Manager Designate
(having previously managed a Bank-funded ADP) took up his
position in November 1985, and other international staff
have been interviewed and selected leaving only letters
of appointment to be issued.
(d) The Project Facilitation Team (PFT) from FACU would start
its work by April 1986 to ensure that the administrative
and financial systems are set in place by mid-1986 while
the loan is expected to become effective in FY87 first
semester.
Summary Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Amount of Loan    % of Expenditure to
Category                    Allocated         be Financed
1. Buildings & water related        4.3          100% of foreign
civil works                                   expenditure and 85%
of local expenditures.
2. Vehicles, plant, equipment,      4.8           100% of foreign
materials, and spare parts                    expenditure and 85%
of local expenditures.
3. Consultant and Internatio-       2.2          100Z of foreign
nal salaries.                                 expenditure and 85% of
local expenses.
4. Training                         0.5          100%
5. Farm inputs                      5.5          100% of foreign
expenditure and 85%
of local expenditures.
6. Operating costs and              2.7          40%
general services exclu-
ding local salaries
7. Federal Irrigation Sub-          2.5          1OOZ
sector Studies.
8. Unallocated                      2.5
25.0



- 19 -
3.31      Reimbursement for civil works contracts less than US$50,000,
other contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent, local training
programs approved by the Bank, and operating and general service costs
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that all supporting documents for SOEs
would be held by the project units in readily available form and made
available upon request for inspection by the Bank [para 4.01 (b)].
Whenever possible, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in
amounts of US$200,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank for
reimbursement out of the loan proceeds. All IBRD reimbursements would
be made to the Special Project Account if appropriate or the other SBADP
bank accounts [para 4.01 (c)]. Provision has been made fcr up to US$1.5
mn of retroactive financing, for categories 1, 2, and 3, to begin work
after reappraisal to facilitate: (i) project start-up operation; and
(ii) initiating 1986 crop season activities.
3.32      Project and Special Accounts.  The project would establish a
project account (Account No. 1) with a local commercial bank. This
account would receive the state contributions as well as the federal
contributions. FMG and BSG would each deposit in the project account
N600,000 which represents the estimated operating and capital costs for
the first six months of the project, as a condition of loan
effectiveness [para 4.02 (f)]. BSG would cause the establishment of an
overdraft facility, with a commercial bank for SBADPMU, of N1.0 mn and
fully guarantee its payment obligations. This would also be a condition
to loan effectiveness [para 4.02 (g)]. FMG and BSG gave assurances at
negotiations that each would promptly pay its contribution as a grant to
the project, as would be stated in the approved annual budget quarterly
and in advance into the project account. FMG contribution would be
calculated at 20Z of SBADP approved annual budget excluding existing
staff [para 4.01 (d) and (e)]. It was also agreed at negotiations that
in the event that BSG were delinquent for two successive quarters in
paying in full its quarterly share of project costs into the project
account, FMG would be authorized to pay into the project account BSG's
contribution directly from the State's statutory allocation (para 4.01
(f)]. In addition, a Special Project Account (Account No. 2) would be
established by Borno State for its project components into which the
Bank would make an initial deposit of US$1.0 mn to be used to prefinance
goods and services reimhursable under the loan. The Special Account
would be operated under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and
its replenishment would be conditional on BSG and FMG's quarterly
releases of their contribution.   Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations [para 4.01 (g)]. The account would be managed
by the Project Management (PMU), and should any disbursement made from
this account found to be ineligible for financing, BSG would deposit the
corresponding amount into the account prior to submission of any further
replenishment applications.    Special accounts procedures are given in
Annex 3-15. At this stage, no Special Account is proposed for the
Federal component; should a need for such an account become apparent
during project implementation, appropriate amendments would be made.



- 20 -
J. Auditing and Reporting
3.33      It was agreed during negotiations that SBADP and FMG accounts
related to the project (including separate accounts for amounts
withdrawn on the basis of SOEs, and the Special Project Account) would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank [para
4.01 (h)J. The auditor's report and statement of accounts would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the FMG fiscal
year. It would also be agreed that SBADP and FACU (on behalf of FMG)
would submit: (a) quarterly progress reports to the Bank; and (b) within
six months of the prcject's closing date, a final report on
implementation and project achievements [para 4.01 (u)]. Details of
report requirements are in '.nnex 3-16.
K. Production and Markets
3.34      As a result of the project's agricultural initiatives it is
expected that incremental annual production in the project area of
various crops from PY5 onward would be as follows (Annex 3-1, Table 10):
Maize          7,500 tons
Cowpeas        3,600 tons
Sorghum        1,700 tons
Millet           600 tons
Vegetables     9,720 tons
The bulk of this produce is expected to be sold within the state where a
growing urban population and the grain deficient rangeland areas of the
semi-arid north provide a ready market. An exception would be the
vegetables which could be moved either along existing good quality trunk
roads to the forest zone in the coastal belt or to an existing
processing plant a few miles from the project boundary. Newly
established feed mills in the state would provide additional outlets for
surplus maize. Marketing is at present in the hands of private traders
with a minimum of official intervention and prices therefore reflect
internal market forces rather than political policies.
L. Financial Impact and Project Sustainability
3.35      The project would generate little government revenue, since
there is no sales tax and farmers' output is also not taxed. Financial
cost to the state government during the project period would consist of
(a) state's share of project costs of N5.8 mn; (b) non-incremental costs
of N11.0 mn for existing staff and overheads; and (c) subsidies of NO.2
mn and N2.0 mun for incremental and non-incremental fertilizer
respectively. Thus, on an annual basis, the state financial burden
would be N1.2 mn for incremental cost and N2.4 mn for existing staff and
subsidy for non-incremental fertilizer. The relatively small
incremental costs (about 2.2% and 0.5% of BSG 1985 capital and recurrent
budget respectively) are expected to be within BSG's financing capacity.
BSG debt service burden for IBRD loan relent by FMG is expected to rise



- 21 -
from US$193,000 in FY87 to US$3.2 un in FY93 and thereafter decreasing
gradually till the final payment of US$1.6 un in FY 2006. Annex 3-17.
The federal government's contribution would amount to N8.5 mn (or about
N1.7 mn annually for incremental project costs), N0.4 mn in incremental
fertilizer subsidy and N1.3 mn in non-incremental fertilizer subsidy.
The financial cost of non-fertilizer farm inputs totalling N7.3 mn would
be recovered in full from farmers. No incremental project costs would
have to be sustained by government in the post project period as no
incremental staff are required, and water supplies and roads would be
maintained by the community except for about N70,000 per year for four
years which may be required to maintain fadama access roads to new
communities (para 3.13). The cost of fertilizer and farm inputs would
be fully recovered from farmers, and, in the case of fertilizer, state
and federal subsidies are expected to be fully withdrawn by 1989 (PY3)
(para 2.08). Increased farm production in rainfed areas, would in
general, provide returns of about K2 per incremental labor hour. Fadama
irrigation which would bring the major output increase would give a
return of N4.60 per labor hour and the use of herbicides on maize would
show a return of N120 per hectare (Annex 3-1).
M. Benefits and Risks
3.36      The project would: (a) increase food production and the income
of up to 60,000 farming families; (b) improve 1,000 km of village access
roads to reduce incremental transport cost by 50% in both dry and wet
seasons and increase wet weather serviceability to 85%; (c) improve
rural water supply by providing 750 new or deepened hand-dug wells and
40 water retaining ponds; (d) establish a better link between research,
extension and the farmer to encourage the adoption of improved
production technology and the long-term upgrading of skills; (e) develop
new low cost small irrigation schemes in the fadama areas; and (f)
strengthen the institutions involved and establish a management capacity
to undertake, in the future, a state-wide operation.
3.37      The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated
to be 16% with a net present value (at 10% discount rate) of N3.2 mn.
These economic benefits are derlved from increased fGod production
emanating from better use and increase of (i) fertilizer application
(11%); chemicals (36%); (ii) improved seeds (11Z); and (iii) fadama
development (42%) 9/. About 90% of the economic incremental benefits
would be derived from three crops: maize (32%); cowpea (25%); and
vegetables (33%). The balance would be contributed by sorghum (7Z) and
millet (3%). The outflow stream includes all incremental costs except
those for water supply, agricultural investigation and 25% of the road
components. Existing staff are excluded from the calculation (para
9/   Details of financial and economic benefits are in Annex 3-1, Table
11.



- 22 -
3.19), and if these costs were included for the project period only, the
ERR would be 12%. Sensitivity analysis shows that total costs would
need to increase by 19% or project benefits decrease by 16% for the ERR
to fall below the opportunity cost of capital (10%). If benefits fall
and costs rise by 10% each, the ERR would be 9.0%. If the Nigerian
historical disbursement profile for agricultural and rural development
projects would apply, the ERR would be 13%. (For details see Annexes
3-18 and 3-19).
3.38      The project faces a number of risks associated with (i) the
ability of FMG and BSG to fund the project regularly and adequately;
(ii) the efficiency of farm inputs distribution system including
fertilizer and in particular that the state government may attempt to
minimize the participation of the private sector in the distribution of
farm inputs and so limit their availability to farmers; (iii) the
availability of farm inputs including fertilizer; and (iv) adverse
effects of price distortions emanating from FMG trade policy resulting
in lower than aniticipated farmer response to project services.
3.39      The first two risks, project funding and the efficiency of
farm inputs distribution system, have been addressed by (i) designing
project scope to reduce costs to the anticipated level that FMG and BSG
can support, and planning the road development and rural water supply
programs to rely more on traditional patterns and enable the local
communities to maintain them independently of government funding; and
(ii) the stipulation that FMG and BSG would undertake to assist the
project in promoting the development of a private sector retail network
for the distribution of farm inputs including fertilizer [para 4.01
(j)]. The third risk, the availability of farm inputs is reduced by (i)
the present fertilizer stock (already sufficient for half the project
period); and (ii) project provision (foreign and local funds) for the
procurement of farm inputs excluding fertilizer. The risk of
inappropriate prices is dramatically reduced by FMG's recent reform
measures, e.g., abolishment of government commodities' boards. This
would be further reduced by arrangements made through the Multi-State
ADP (para 2.08) (Agricultural Pricing and Policy Unit).
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      During negotiations for the proposed loan, the following
principal issues were discussed and agreements reached with FMG and BSG,
and specified as conditions in the Loan and Project Agreements.
Financial Conditions
(a) BSG would provide in MANR's annual recurrent budget the cost
of staff redeployed to the project and pay their present
salaries and allowances directly from its budget (para 3.19);



_ 23 -
(b) all supporting documents for SOEs and withdrawals from the
Special Account would be maintained in readily available form
and made available upon request for inspection by the Bank
(para 3.31);
(c) all IBRD reimbursements would be made to the Special Project
Account if appropriate or the other SBADP bank accounts (para
3.31);
(d) FMG share of project costs would be calculated at 20% of SBADP
approved annual budget excluding existing staff and would be
paid as a grant quarterly and in advance (para 3.32);
(e) BSG would pay into the project account its annual share as
stated in SBADP approved annual budget quarterly and in
advance (para 3.32);
(f) in the event that BSG were delinquent for two successive
quarters, in paying in full its quarterly share of project
costs into the project accounts, FMG would be authorized to
pay into the project account BSG's contribution directly from
the state's statutory allocation (para 3.32).
(g) The Special Account would be operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank and replenishment would be
conditional on BSG and FMG quarterly releases of their
contribution (para 3.32);
(h) audited accounts together with the auditors report, including
statements as to whether or not Bank funds had been used for
their intended purpose, would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the end of the fiscal year (para 3.33);
Project Administration Conditions
(i) by June 30, 1986 BSG would allocate to the project the
required extension staff as would be determined by the PFT.
The number of extension staff allocated would be reviewed, by
February 28, 1987, with FMG and the Bank, with a view to
maintaining said staff at the optimum level required by
proejct needs (para 3.09);
(j) BSG would allow SBADP to provide appropriate vehicles for
purchase by extension staff on an installment basis and pay
the designated travel allowances due to the users (para 3.09);
(k) SBADP and BOADAP would sell farm inputs including fertilizer
on the basis of full cost recovery (para 3.11);



- 24 -
(1)  FMG would facilitate the importation of IBRD-financed goods
and services by the timely issue of import licences (para
3.11);
(m) FMG would facilitate the increased availability of farm inputs
under the project, especially water pumps, herbicides and
insecticides by the timely provision of (a) import licenses;
and (b) foreign exchange allocations against the project's
Naira funds (para 3.11);
(n) SBDAP would not operate more than 14 retail outlets for the
distribution of farm inputs including fertilizer and would
promote the development of a private sector retail network for
the distribution of farm inputs including fertilizer, and FMG
and BSG would assist the project in the Development of such a
private sector retail network (para 3.11);
(o) BSG would maintain about 135 km of new access tracks to high
potential irrigable areas (Fadama) adjacent to the Gongola
Hawal and Yedseram rivers for four years after road completion
(para 3.13);
(p) BSG would commission an action plan payed out of project funds
to detail the implications and actions required to privatize
the state's tractor hire unit. This plan would be completed
and submitted to the Bank within one year of effectiveness
[para 3.15 (c)];
(q) consultants and senior SBADP staff with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank, would be appointed on
agreed terms and conditions (para 3.15);
Cr) SBADP would submit along with the annual budget, an annual
action plan approved by BADPEC for buildings, roads, water
supply, procurement, and agricultural development at least
four months prior to each fiscal year to FDARD for approval
and the Bank for information (para 3.22);
(s) procurement, budgeting, audit and reporting requirements would
be satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.29 and 3.33);
(t) all bidding packages for goods and services over US$300,000
and for buildings and civil works over US$500,000 would be
subject to the prior review of the Bank (para 3.29); and
(u) after completion of disbursement SBADP would cooperate with
FACU to prepare a Project Completion Report in consultation
with the Bank and would submit it to the Bank within six
months of the closing date (para 3.33);



- 25 -
4.02      Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(a) a subsidiary loan agreement between FMG and BSG, acceptable to
the Bank, would have been signed (para 3.20);
(b)  BSG would have established BADPEC and SBADPMU (paras 3.21 and
3.22);
(c) a chief agronomist would have been appointed (para 3.23);
(d) an Action Plan detailing the first project year implementation
program acceptable to the Bank had been drawn up (para 3.25);
(e) responsibility for all crop extension work in the project area
would be transferred to SBADP and the existing agricultural
staff deemed necessary from LGCs, and MANR working in the
project area would be redeployed to SBADP, by June 30, 1986
(para 3.27);
(f) FMG and BSG would have each made their initial contributions
of NO.6 mn into SBADP's bank account (para 3.32); and
(g) an overdraft facility, with a commercial bank for SBADPNLi, of
N1.0 mu has been established (para 3.32).
4.03      The appointment of the program manager, financial controller,
and the chief civil engineer would be a condition of Board presentation
(para 3.23).
4.04      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0 mu to the Federal
Republic of Nigeria.
WAPAB
June 1986



-   26   -
VICCltIA                                       ANNEX  I
Key Features of the Agricultural Sector
Unit         1974-76 Av.         1984
1. PopulatiLon a/
Total (growth rate)                  Million         74.9 (2.5)       93.6 (3.3)
Rural *  Z Total                        S             81.8              78
Rural ramilLes                        *000           10,211           12.168
2. Economlc Overviev
GDP/Read of Total Populatlon            $              521              767
Agric. CDP/Head of Rural Population    S               173              233
Agricultural GDP as S of Total          S               24               30
3. Land Use a/
Land Area ce sq. km.                                910.770           910,770
Foresa                               '000 ha          16.357           14.000
Perennial Crops                      '000 ha           2.497            2.535
Annual Crops                         '000 ha          27.503           27.900
Of Which:  Area Irrigated a/       '000 ha              18               32
4. Outputs                           69-71 Av. - 100
1.  Root Crops                                           104               90
2.  Sorghum                             -                100               83
3.  Millet                                               I1              107
4.  Groundnut (in shell)                                  23               32
Livestock
Cattle *                                             100               106
Sheep/goat.                                           109              125
Poultry                              "107                              187
Pigs                                 "                113              163
Cereal Production/Head of Total
Population                                            90                s0
Cereal/Read of Rural Population                           92               83
5.  Inauts
Fertilizer                           '000 tons           124              608
Pesticides                           '000 liters         D.n.             n.a.
Tractors a/                            units           1.500            9.500
6. Trade a/
Total Exports                          S a             9.312           11.314
Of Which:
Agricultural Products                                   5              4
Of Which:
1.  Cocoa and Products            S                 68              74
2. Rubber                          S                 6               6
3.  Pals Produce (kernels. oil)   S                  14             10
Total Imports */                       S a             5.670           13 437
Of Which:
Agricultural Products                I                  8             13
1. Cereals and Preparation        S                 38              42
2.  Sugar and 8oney                S                23              23
3. Dairy Product, end Eggs         S                19               9
Agricultural Inputs                  S                  2              6
7. Government Expenditures b/
Total Recurrent Budget                 S M             2.040            8.562
Of Which: Agriculture                   2                  1              1
Total Capital Budget                   S a             5.332            3.02:
Of Which:  Agriculture                  :                  2             13
a/ Data for 1983 only.
tl  Federal Government only
rr Remaining land area is under permanent pasture and other land use.
Data Sources: (i) FAO Production. Fertilizer and Trade Yearbooks; (il) Nigeria
Country Economic Memo (Dec. 1985); (iii) Nigeria Agricultural Pricing Policy Peport
(Oct. 1984); 'iv) Review of Public Expenditure Program in Nigeria (Oct. 1985); (v)
Feb. 1986            EPD Data Bank; and (vi) wAIDA'e toy Indicator Table of 1186.



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Sector Constraints
Development Constraints
1.        After assuming power in 1984, the Federal Military Government
(FMG) stated its full commitment to revitalizing the agricultural sector
and dealing with the constraints which have hindered agricultural
development during the past decade. These constraints include: (a) an
incentive framework with prices, taxes, subsidies, exchange rate and
marketing which have worked against the development of an efficient
agriculture; (b) an institutional framework which has encouraged dupli-
cation and inefficient operation of services to the sector and failed to
make suitable arrangements for maintenance of investments; and (c) a
technology framework which has failed to improve the general level of
agronomic practices or increase labor productivity.
Incentive Framework
2.        An oil dominated and appreciating exchange rate, erratic trade
policies and a largely ineffective system of support prices for domesti-
cally consumed staples have resulted in fluctuating returns and no
consistent incentive for farmers to make the commitment necessary to
sustain increased domestic production. Since 1970, import policies have
favored consumers through the import and sale of cheap wheat, rice,
maize, and vegetable oils at negligible duties. On the export side,
farmers suffered initially from the heavy taxes and retentions imposed
by marketing boards and subsequently, when farm costs rose abuve export
prices, the subsidies offered were inadequate to encourage farmers to
rehabilitate plantations or harvest crops. Disincentives caused by
trade policies were aggravated by shifts in the exchange rates, an
overvalued Naira in the 1970's putting exports at a further disadvantage
and strengthening the competitive edge already enjoyed by imported
grains.
3.        However, while these policies resulted in low producer prices
in the past, since 1983, due to drought and reduced imports, farmers
have been enjoying high prices and good returns from food crops. It is
important that consistent incentives are maintained in the future. This
matter is taken up by arrangements made through the Multi-State ADP
whereby a mechanism would be set up for a continuous consultation
between FMG and the Bank aiming to agree on general principles of
agricultural trade policy including crop specific levels, import quotas
and export subsidy for the crop year 1986 and onward. To facilitate
this process, FMG would make appropriate institutioval arrangements to
ensure proper coordination of trade policy and to prepare the data base
needed to determine tariffs, import quantities and export subsidies.



- 28 -                          ANNEX 2
_     _                      Page 2 of 3
Institutional Framework
4.        One of the more difficult problems in developing Nigeria's
agriculture are the overlapping functions of the agencies dealing with
the sector. Both the Federal Ministry of Agriculture (FMA) and the
State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) are involved
in agricultural development at the state level. Because of overlapping
responsibilities, the task of planning, implementing and maintaining
agricultural investments is a difficult one. The problem is compounded
by the limited managerial and technical capabilities of the relevant
agencies at the federal, state and local government level. FMG is
taking measures to reshape the organizational framework. To improve
coordination, FMA was merged with the Federal Ministry of Water Resourc-
es in 1984 to form the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources
and Rural Development (FMAWRRD). In streamlining federal/state activi-
ties, FMG has decided that the Federal Department of Agriculture and
Rural Development (FDARD) and the federal River Basin and Rural Develop-
ment Authorities (RBRDAs) wi]l no longer be responsible for providing
agricultural inputs and services to farmers except for closed circuit
irrigation schemes.
5.        The Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution Division (FPDD)
within FMAWRRD is responsible for fertilizer procurement and distribu-
tion to the states. At the state level, fertilizer is distributed by
the Ministry of Agriculture and National Resources. Although supplies
of fertilizer have increased substantially in 1984, distribution proce-
dures are so cumbersome that there have been strong disincentives to
increased uptake by smallholders. Storage conditions are often poor and
in some states there has been significant spoilage of stocks left from
earlier years. These problems are being addressed through the fertiliz-
er import loan (Ln. 2345-UNI) under which FMG is covenanted to prepare a
countrywide marketing plan which would include the progressive
privatization of distribution.
6.        State MANRs have, for the most part, been unable to provide
effective extension and input distribution services due to several
factors.  These include: a top-heavy staffing structure and, thereiore,
too little worker contact with farmers, a lack of clearly defined
objectives stemming in part from a shortage of proven technical packag-
es, insufficient funds for workers' operating expenses and low morale.
Local Government Councils (LGCs), responsible for feeder road and water
supply maintenance, have so far been unable to maintain the
infrastructure adequately because of insufficient funding and political
interference.
Technology Framework
7.        The three broad climatic zones of Nigeria, humid, sub-humid
and semi-arid present quite different sets of technological challenges
to farmers. In the humid zone and the southern boundary of the
sub-humid zone growing conditions do not favor grain production and the



- 29 -                             Page 3 of 3
farming system is dominated by root crops, yams and cassava. The main
constraint in this zone is the maintenance of soil fertility following
on forest clearing in situations where population density no longer
allows for adequate restorative fallows. The use of fertilizer provides
partial help in this situation but research is still needed to produce
long-term solutions to this problem, which is common to similar areas
elsewhere in the humid tropics. Much of the sub-humid zone is well
suited to maize production and this crop is rapidly growing in populari-
ty. While there are problems of micro-nutrient deficiencies in this
zone, the soil fertility problems are less intractable than in the
wetter areas and there is potential for considerable intensification of
both grain and legume production. In the semi-arid areas, a combination
of inadequate and erratic rainfall poses severe challenges to both
farmers and scientists. Traditional cultivars of sorghum and millet
which have evolved under these conditions are well adapted to the
environment but have limited yield potential and low levels of fertiliz-
er responsiveness. Varieties released from the research stations over
the past twenty years have not been widely accepted by farmers. Fertil-
izer use has been fostered by subsidies and high grain prices but poses
problems of economic viability. This situation closely resembles that
which prevails in other semi-arid areas of the tropics and requires
intensified on-going research of a level which has not been provided in
the past.
WAPAL
February 1986



- 30 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Development
1.        The crop development proposals which would determine the
agricultural impact of the project have been influenced by the experience
of ongoing projects in neighboring states with similar ecological
conditions. Such experience has confirmed that the locally available
cultivars and farming methods in use for the dominant mixtures of sorghum,
millet and cowpeas in areas with an annual rainfall of less than 900 mm.
are the product of many generations of experience and are well adapted to
the micro-ecological zones in which they are used.   Consequently, and
contrary to expectations it has proved difficult to introduce new
technology which is both managerially and economically attractive for these
traditional mixtures; changes have been at the margin rather than providing
a radical transformation. Efforts to develop viable new technology through
research is ongoing at the national institutes and the large ADPs, and the
Bank is reviewing the present status of agricultural research throughout
West Africa to help establish priorities for further research work in the
area. In response to an FMG request, the Bank is helping to organize a
small group of experienced scientists to focus particular attention on the
Nigerian sorghum and millet programs. At present the main scope for
substantive change in the drier areas has proved to be with cowpeas grown
as a pure stand, and with small scale irrigation. Where more favorable
rainfall conditions permit maize cultivation there is scope for improving
on current production levels.
2.        The areas under different crop mixtures in Southern Borno are (as
elsewhere in Nigeria) a matter for conjecture but available figures
indicate a total area of grains of 450,000 ha. made up of:
Sorghum             52%
Millet               41Z
Maize                 7%
Cowpeas are widely interplanted through much of the sorghum and millet
crop. Irrigated vegetables production occurs in small pockets adjacent to
rivers and access roads. There are no records as to areas but the total is
unlikely to be in excess of 2,000 ha.
3.        The project would introduce a number of initiatives which would
help farmers to increase their productivity and income. They are not
interdependent and it is anticipated that farmers will pick one or more of
the proposed inputs as they see fit. Therefore it is not possible to
provide models of the impact of these initiatives on whole farm enterprises



ANNEX 3-1
- 31 -                            Page 2 of 4
and the benefits are calculated on the basis of the global impact of each
individual input.
Project Agricultural Initiatives
4.        Alternative Varieties of Seeds.  A wide range of locally adapted
sorghums and millets are grown in the project area. However, new
introductions are available from the Institute of Agricultural Research
(IAR) which are mainly of shorter duration than local cultivars. In parts
of the project area where there are plentiful land resources there are
advantages to farmers (particularly larger scale operators) spreading their
planting season by using these short duration sorghums and millets after
the more favored long season types, have been planted. It is anticipated
that by project year 5 up to 115 tons of such material could be planted
annually, which would be sufficient to cover 4% of the total area estimated
to be under these crops. Evidence from trials and experiments in
neighboring states indicate that the use of these varieties in appropriate
situations could result in incremental yields of 10 kg of sorghum and 16 kg
of millet per kg of seed planted. Table 1 provides details of adoption and
response.
5.        Maize in the project area suffers from the disease leaf streak.
Newly released varieties from the International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture (IITA) in Nigeria are resistant to the disease and are expected
to be popular with farmers. There is an active maize breeding program in
Nigeria and it is anticipated that 198 tons of new material could be
planted to new material by project year 5. This would represent some 30%
of the estimated area under the crop. Evidence from on farm trials in
neighboring states indicates that an incremental production of 5 kg of
maize per kg of seed could be expected from this new material (Table 1).
6.        Crop Protection.  Farmers suffer substantial losses of maize and
cowpeas from storage pests. Good control of these can be obtained by the
use of insecticides of low mammalian toxicity which are approved for this
purpose. The project would promote the sale of such products and combine
this with appropriate extension advice on their use. Evidence from a
number of studies on storage pests in West Africa indicate that it is
reasonable to expect a 10% reduction in losses to these crops by
controlling pests (Table 2).
7.        Cowpeas suffer severe damage in the field from insect pests, and
control of these is now possible by the use of a new ultra low volume
method of chemical application relying upon electrical forces for droplet
dispersal. The technique is being pioneered in neighboring states and
although mistakes have been made and uptake patchy, farmers are showing
increasing interest as growing numbers of individuals successfully master
the technology. The project would demonstrate these new sprayers, make
them widely available and provide individual instruction on theLi use.  In
land plentiful areas farmers can afford to allocate land to cowpeas in pure
stand in order to make use of the insecticidal protection. This is likely
to prove attractive to small farmers outside the rather crowded Biu



- 32 -                              ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 4
Plateau, and to the larger scale operators. It is expected that 3,000 ha.
in Southern Borno and a similar area in the rest of the state would be
treated in this way by year 5. Experience in Kano state indicates that
incremental yields of 400 kg per ha should result from this treatment
(Table 3).
8.        There are a range of pests which damage other crops from time to
time depending upon annual climatic patterns. The project would make
stocks of appropriate chemicals available throughout the state to deal with
such eventualities. The choice of the most suitable materials would be the
responsibility of the senior agronomist (Table 4).
9.        Maize farmers, particularly those with an area greater than can
be hand weeded in a timely manner with available labour, find difficulty in
controlling weeds during the first three weeks of crop growth. This period
is critical to ultimate yield and the use of herbicides can be justified on
the basis of increased production. The project would supply the necessary
inputs and demonstrate their use. It is expected that 3,000 ha could be
sprayed by year 5 resulting in the production of an extra 900 tons of grain
per year thereafter (Table 5a).
10.       Seed borne diseases and soil pests result in some loss of yield
which can be counteracted by seed dressing. Most of the seed planted is
from farmers own stock. The project would make available suitable chemical
dressing for farmer use. Individual crop increases from this practice are
uot great but there is a worthwhile overall effect given the large number
of likely participants. It is anticipated that 140,000 packets of seed
dressing would be sold annually by year 5, resulting in the production of
an extra 575 tons of grain per year thereafter (Table 5b).
11.       Fertilizer Use.  There has been increased interest in ferti_zer
use in the project area in recent years as availability has improved. In
both 1984 and 1985 sales have been of the order of 9,600 tons. Most of
this fertilizer is applied to grain crops, including sorghum and millet.
The uptake of fertilizer has been stimulated in recent years by high g-sin
prices and fertilizer subsidies. Both are expected to fall over the next
three years and this could make fertilizer use unattractive in the leapt
responsive situations (the millet crop and areas of unreliable rainfalj -
In most of the project area which enjoys adequate rainfall it is expected
that action now being taken to improve on the actual mix of nutrients
supplied to the states will offset the withdrawal of the subsidy and it has
been assumed that without the project, fertilizer sales would have
increased from 9,600 tons to 12,900 tons over the next five years. The
project will particularly emphasize the use of fertilizer on maize from
which the greatest response can be expected and it is estimated that a
further 2,000 incremental tons of sales would be directly attributable to
project interventions. Experimental evidence on farm trials indicate a
response ratio of 10 kg of maize per kg of nitrogen in the presence of
adequate phosphate and potassium (Table 6).



- 33 -                              ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 4
12.       Although the mix of fertilizer supplied to the state is outside
project control there is scope for improving the utilization of fertilizer
purchased by farmers, and one function of the extension service would be to
offer better advice on appropriate types to be used in specific situations
together with proposals on the timing and method of application (Table 7).
13.       Fadama Development.  The project area includes both open water
and flood land which are underutilized at present, although pockets of well
developed intensive vegetable production do exist. The project would
attempt to broaden the scope of such activities by improving access to
areas of high potential, by making pumps and spare parts more widely
available and by providing seeds and plant protection chemicals at stores
adjacent to the floodplains. It would give close attention to
opportunities for providing alternative low cost methods of water control
through the use of washbores, tubewells and simple earth strn:-tures and
combine these with the promotion of supplemental irrigation for maize and
rice where appropriate. This is the sphere in which tne greatest
opportunity for future development appears to lie. Some 650 ha of new
irrigated land are expected to be brought into use resulting in 10,000 tons
-f extra vegetables from year 5/6 onward (Table 8).
14.       Livestock Development.  There are a number of working oxen in the
project area and these tend to be in poor condition at the end of the dry
season when they are required for land preparation. The project would seek
assistance of the National Livestock Project Unit (LPU) technical staff in
Kaduna to provide a basis for helping the owners of such animals by the
provision of supplementary concentrated feeds from within Nigeria (e.g.
palm kernel and cotton seed cake), by pioneering the use of urea and
mollasses blocks developed by LPU to improve on the digestion of the dry,
fibrous fodder available and by demonstrating methods of conserving stover
through the use of simple airtight storage pits combined with a urea
supplement which have been used by farmers in Kano state. Farmer response
to such initiatives cannot be gauged at present and no benefits are
attributed to these activities, which could, however, have considerable
value.
15.       Table 10 provides a year by year estlmate (through PY5) of the
estimated incremental crop production resulting from the project.
16.       Financial Implications for Farmers.  Tables 1-11 detail the
financial and economic benefits of project agricultural interventions.
Tables 12-14 provide an indication of the implications for individual
users. The latter show that returns to labour of each of the proposals is
higher than current rates, and that even with a halving of crop prices only
the returns to unsubsidized fertilizer and seed dressing proposals would
fall below existing wege levels.
WAPAB
February 1986



-  34  -                                ANNEX 3-1
Table 1
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits Derived from the Sale of Alternative Varieties of Seeds 1/
Quantities in Tons  Values in 000N
Year 2   Year 3      Year 4     Year 5
Incremental quantity
of seed sold
Sorghum                      7.5       12.5       30         50
Millet                       1.5        3          4.5         7.5
Maize                       13.5       22.5       54         121.5
Incremental production
Sorghum                       75       200         500       1,000
Millet                        24         60        102         168
Maize                         68        146        343         770
Incremental value net of
labour financial
Sorghum                       24        64         160        320
Millet                         7         19         32          52
Maize                         23         50        117         262
Total financial                   54        133        309         634
Incremental value net of
labour economic
Sorghum                       11         30         73         154
Millet                         4          9         15          26
Maize                         11         23         52         124
Total economic                    26         62        140         304
1/   See Appendix 4 for details.
WAPAB
February 1986



- 35 -                                 Annex 3-1
Table 2
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits Derived from the Use of Storage Chemicals
Production in Tons Values in OOOK
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4       Year 5
Sales of chemical by SBADP kg.         150         700      2,000      4,500     7,000
Sales of chemical by BOADAP kg.         -       1,000       1.500     2,000      3,000
Tons of maize treated SBADP            200        800       2,000      5,000     8,000
Tor.a of cowpea treated SBADP          100        600       2,000      4,000     6,000
Tons of cowpea treated BOADAP           -       2,000       3.000      4,000     6,000
Tons of maize saved SBADP               20          80        200        500       800
Tons of cowpea saved SBADP              10          60        200        400       600
Tons of cowpea saved BOADAP             -          200        300        400       600
SBADP
Incremental value of maize financial   9            36         90        225       360
Less cost of labour financial            2           8         22         54        87
Net benefit financial                    7          26         68        171       273
Incremental value of maize economic    4            15         38         96       158
Less cost of labour economic              .6         3          7         18        29
Net benefit economic                     3.4        12         31         78       129
Incremental value of cowpeas
financial                              11         66         220       440        660
Less cost of labour financial            2          10         32         64        96
Net benefit financial                    9         56         188        376       564
Incremental value of cowpeas
economic                                4         22          73        145       218
Less cost of labour economic              .5        3          10         21        32
Net benefit economic                     3.5       19          63        124       186
BOADAP
Incremental value of cowpeas
financial                              -         220         330       440        660
Less cost of la-our financial                      32          48         64        96
Net benefit financial                             188         282        376       564
Net benefit to SBADP financial                     47          70         94       141
Incremental value of cowpeas
economic                                          73         109        145       218
Less cost of labour econcmic                       10          16         21        32
Net benefit economic                               63          93        124       186
Net benefit to SBADP economic                      16          23         31        47
Total net benefit to SBADP
financial                              16        129         326       641        978
Total net benefit to SBADP
economic                                7         47         117       233        362
WAPAB



- 36 -                           ANNEX 3-1
Table 3
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits Derived from the Spraying of Cowpeas with Electrodines
Production in Tons Values in OOON
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Year 5
Area sprayed SBADP                       10      500     1,000     2,000      3,000
Area sprayed BOADAP                      -       400       800     2,000      3,000
Incremental production SBADP             4       200       400       800      1,200
Incremental production BOADAP            -       160       320       800      1,200
SBADP
Value of incremental production
financial                              4       220       440       880      1,320
Less cost of labour                      .8       40        79        158       237
Total                                  3.2       180       361        722     1,083
Value of incremental production
economic                               1        73       145       290        435
Less cost of labour                      .2       13        26        52         78
Total                                    .8       60       119       238        357
BOADAP
Value of incremental production I/
financial                              -        44        88       220        330
Less cost of labour                                8        16        40         60
Total                                             36        72        180       270
Value of incremental production
economic                                        15        29        72        108
Less cost of labour                                3         6         15        23
Total                                             12        22        58         86
Total benefit to SBADP financial       3.2       216       435       902      1,352
Total benefit to SBADP economic         .8        72       141       295        442
1/   25% of the value of BOADAP incremental production is calculated as attributable
to SBADP.
WAPA7D
February 1989



- 37 -                         ANNEX 3-1
Table 4
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits Deriving from the Sale of General Purpose Insecticides
OOON
Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5
Cost of insecticide                       308           371         337          303
Value of incremental benefit 1/
net of cost of labour
and insecticide financial                154           185         168          151
Value of incremental benefit 1/
net of cost of labour
and insecticide economic                  61           74           67           60
1/   These insecticides are to be used on a wide range of crops and are expected to
provide a financial benefit of 50% and an economic benefit of 20% on the
expenditure net of incremental labour and the cost of the product.
WAPAB
Februar- IRA



ANNEX 3-1
- 38 -                          Table 5(a)
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits Derived from the Sale of Herbicide for Use on Maize
Production in Tons Values in 000N
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3       Year 4    Year 5-25
Area treated with herbicide
(ha)                            100        500      1,000       2,000      3,000
Incremental production             30        150         300        600        900
Value of incremental maize
(financial)                       13         67         135        270        405
Less cost of labour financial       3         21          43         85         128
Net benefit financial              10         46          92        185         277
Value of incremental maize
(economic)                         6         29         57         114        177
Less cost of labour economic        1          7          14         28         43
Net benefit economic                5         22          43         86         134
Table 5(b)
Benefits Derived from the Sale of Seed Dressing
Production in Tons Values in 000N
Sales by SBADP (sachets)                  20,000      25,000     30,000     35,000
Sales by BOADAP (sachets)                 60.000      75,000     80.000     80,000
Incremental production of grain              400         500        550        575
Incremental benefit of SBADP
(net of labour) financial                    34         43          51         60
Incremental benefit SBADP
(net of labour) economic                     15          19         23         28
Incremental benefit BOADAP
(net of labour) financial 1/                 51         64          68         68
Incremental benefit BOADAP 1/
(net of labour) economic                     23         29          31         32
Net total benefit SBADP financial             85         107        119         128
Net total benefit SBADP economic              38          48         54         60
1/   50% of benefit attributed to BOADAP and 50% to SBADP.
WAPAB
February 1986



-39-                                   ANNEX 3-1
Table 6
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits Derived from Incremental
Sales of Fertilizer Applied to Maize
(Quantities in Tons, Values in 'OOON)
Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year 5-9   Year 10-25
Incremental Sales of
Fertilizer                     800        1,200        1,500      2,000       2,000
Nitrogen Content  1/ Z            18          19           21          24         24
Incremental Sales of N           144         228          315        480         480
Incremental Maize
Production                    1,440       2,280        3,150      4,800       4.800
Value of Incremental
Production (financial)         648        1,026        1.417      2,160       2,160
Less Cost of Labour              237         368          493         723        723
Sub-Total                       411          658          924      1,437       1,437
Less Cost of Fertilizer          251         380          486        668         794
Net Benefit Financial            160         278          438         769        643
Value of Incremental
Production (economic)          275          435          602        946         946
Less Cost of Labour              78          121          163        239         239
Sub-Total                       197          314          439        707         707
Less Cost of Fertilizer          188         286          368        510         636
Net Benefit Economic               9          28           71         197         71
1/   In a mixture containing 15 units of both P and K per 100 kg.
WAPAB
February 1986



- 40 -                         ANNEX 3-1
Table 7
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits Derived from thle Improved Use of
Fertilizer Resulting from Project Extension Work
Quantities in Tons Values in 000N
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4   Year 5-25
Estimated fertilizer sales
vithout project                   10,500     11,000      11,500     12,200      12,900
Estimated fertilizer sales
vith project                      10,500     11,800      12,700     13,700      14,900
Z influenced by project              -            10          12         15          20
Tons of fertilizer used
more effectively                     -        1,180       .,524      2,055       2,980
Z improvement in use                              10          12         15          20
Tons of incremental grain
resulting from improved use                     137         205        398         880
Value of incremental grain
financial                                        62          92        179         396
Value of grain net of labour
financial                                        45          65        127         282
Value of incremental grain
economic                                         26          39         76         173
Value of grain net of labour
economic                                         21          31         60         137
WAPAB
February 1986



-  41  -                             ANNEX 3-1
Table 9
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits Derived from Sale of Pumps Through BOADAP
Production in Tons Values in OOON
Year 1    Year 2      Year 3    Year 4   Year 5-25
Purps sold                          150       400         450         500
Pumps in use                        150       550         900       1,080
Tncremental ha. irrigated            60       220         360        432
Inicremental production of                         1/
vegetables                                   900       3,300      5,400       6,480
Value of product
financial                                    450       1,650      2,700       3,24G
Less cost of production 2/
flnanria]                                     93         340        556         667
Net benefit financial                         357       1,310      2,144       ?,573
Benefit attributed to S1ADP
Linancial                                     89         328        538         643
Value of product economic                     148         544        891       1,069
Less cost of production
economic 2/                                   45         165        269         323
Net benefit econcomic                         103         379        622         746
Benefit attributed tu SBADP
economic                                      26          95         15t,       187
WAPAB
LecEmter 1985
1/   Vegetables are soid in the calendar year after pun;p purchase as irrigat:ion srasai:
covers the period October to Varch.
2/   See Annex 3-1, Aprendix 5 foT di-tar.c.
WAPAB
February 1986



-  42   -                            ANNEX 3-1
Table 8
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits Derived from the Development of New Irrigated Areas
Production in Tons Values in OOON
Year 1 Year 2   Year 3    Year 4   Year 5  Year 6
SBADP
Pumps sold                        50      150       400       450       500
Pumps in use                      50     200        560       900    1,080
Ha. irrigated                     30      120       336       540       648
Incremental production of                     1/
vegetables                              490      1,8C0     5,040    8,100    9,720
Value of product financial               225        900     2,520    4,050    4,860
Less cost of production '/
financial                                46        185       519      834    1.001
Net benefit financial                    179        715     1,201    3,216    3,859
Value of product economic                 74        297       832    1,336    1.604
Less cost of production 2/                22         90       251       404      485
economic
Net benefit economic                      52        207       581       932    1,119
WAPAD
1/  Vegetables are sold in the calendar year after puirr prrchase as irrigatioxi
season covers the period October to March.
_/   See Anrex 3-1, Appendix 5 for details.
WAPAB
February 1986



ANNEX 3-1
Table 10
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production Resulting from Project Initiatives (Tons)
Year I     Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Year 5
Maize
Seed                                           68           146          343           770
Fertilizer                        -         1,440        2,280         3,150         4,800
Improved fertilizer use           -            44           68           133           293
Herbicide                        30           150          300           600           900
Crop storage                     20            80          200           500           800
Total                            50         1,782        2.994         4,726         7,570
Sorghum
Seed                                           75          200           500         1,000
Improved fertilizer use                        68          102           199          440
Seed dressing                     -           200          250           275           287
Total                             -           343          552           974         1,727
Millet
Seed                                           24           60           102           168
Improved fertilizer use                        25           35            66           147
Seed dressing                                 200          250           275           287
Total                                         249          345           443           602
Cowpeas
Spraying                          4           360          720         1,600        2,400
Storage                          10           260          500           800         1,200
Total                            14           620        1,220         2,400        3.600
Vegetables
Irrigation development
SBADP                            -          450         1,800         5,040        8,100
Sale of pumps BOADAP                          225          825         1,350         1,620
Total                                         675        2,625         6,390        9.720
WAPAB
February 1986



ANNEX 3-1
Table 11
NIGERIA
SOUTH BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Benefits Deriving from Project Activities
Net of Labour and Cost of Fertilizer (OOON)
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3           Year 4            Year 5        Year 6
fin.   econ.   fin.  econ.   fin.  econ.   fin.    eco.    fin.    econ. fin.    econ.
Seeds                           -       -        54    26      133    62       309     140      634      304    634    304    1
Fertilizer                      -       -       160      9     278    28       438      71      769      197    769    197    >
Improved fertilizer use         -       -        45    21       65    31       127      60      282      137    282    137
Sprayed cowpeas                3.2      .8      216    72      435   141       902     295   1,352       442  1,352    442
Herbicide                      10      5         46    22       92    43       185       86     277      134    277    134
Crop storage                  16       7        129    47      326   117      641      233      978      362    978    362
Seed dressing                   -       -        85    38      107    48       119      54      128       60    128      60
Other chemicals                  -      -       154    61      185    74       168      67      151       60    151      60
Fadama development              -       -       275    84   1,069   324   2,602        791   3,931   1,180  4,610  1,378
Total                       29.2   12.8       1,164   380   2,690   868   5,491   1,807   8,502   2,874  9,181  3,072
WAPAB
February 1986



NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Financial Benefits to Farmers Resulting from
the Use of Inputs Supplied Under the Project
Values in 1985 N
Return Per
Value of                    Net      Incremental   Hour of
Quantity      Incremental  Incremental  Less Cost  Financial   Labour            Incremental
of Input       Output kg.    Output        of Input    Benefit   Required0's)    Labour
Sorghum seed                              6 kg               60         27            4.8         22.2          12          1.85
Millet seed                               3 kg               60         27            2.7          24.3         14          1.74
Haize seed                                9 kg               45         20.2          7.5          12.7          9          1.41
Control of storage pests (maize)           .5 kg            100         45            4           41             4         10.2
Control of storage pests (cowpeas)         .25 kg            50         50            2           48             2         24
Spraying of cowpeas                       3 1.              400        400           82          318           138          2.3
Use of fertilizer on maize 1/           100 kg              180         81           31            50           46          1.09
Use of fertilizer on maize 2/           100 kg              180         81           19            62           46          1.35
Use of seed dressing                     20 gms              10          4.50         2.40          2.10         2          1.05
I/        Unsubsidized                                                                                                           I-
2/         Subsidized
WAPAB
February 1986



- 46 -
ANNEX 3-1
Table 13
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implications of the Use of Herbicide on Maize (1 ha) N
Without Herbicide     With Herbicide
Financial Economic  Financial   Economic
Cost of labour                 75       24.75       10.0        3.3
Cost of herbicide               -        -          45.0       43.0
Depreciation on pump           --      _ _15.0                 13.0
Cost of weeding                75      24.75        70         59.3
Incremental cost of
weeding                                          - 5        34.55
Value of incremental grain
from better early weed
control 1/                    -       -          148.5      57.3
Cost of labour for
harvesting incremental
crop                                              32.7      10.8
Net benefit to herbicide use                       120.8      11.95
1/        300 kg. of maize per hectare in situations in which hand
labour is in short supply for early weeding.
WAPAB
February 1986



- 47 -                          ANNEX 3-1
Table 14
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Costs and Returns from the Use of Small Pumps
for Irrigation of .6 Ha. from Open Water
N
Value of Output (9 tons vegetables)                     4,500
Costs
Depreciation on pump                                      140
Running costs of pump                                     160
Fertilizer                                                 67
Other chemicals                                            20
Seed                                                       60
Sub-total                                                 447
Gross margin                                            4,053
Return per person hour @ 960 hrs. per plot               4.22
WAPAB
February 1986



- 48 -                       Appendix 1
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Prices Farmgate (Current N/ton)
Financial                Border
1986      1987
Sorghum                450                191       197
Millet                 450                191        197
Maize                  450                191        197
Cowpea               1,000                363       363
Vegetables             500                165        165
Fertilizer Prices (Constant N/ton)
N P K              Financial           Border
18.15.15               314                235
19.15.15               317                238
21.15.15               324                245
24.15.15               334                255
Labour Prices (N per day)
Financial       Economic
Male           5               1.65
Female         2                .66
WAPAB
February 1986



- 49 -                          ANNEX 3-1
Appendix 2
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Assumptions Used for Cost of Labour Estimates
Person Days for Harvesting Carrying
Thrashing Winnowing One Ton of Product
Male           Female
Sorghum                  20              15
Millet                    20             20
Maize                     15             17
Cowpea                   20              30
Other Activities
Purchase, Carriage and Application of Fertilizer
20 man days per ton applied.
Spraying Cowpeas
3 man days per ha. (for 3 applications)
Purchase and Application of Herbicide
2 man days per ha.
WAPAB
February 1986



-50 -                           ANNEX 3-1
Appendix 3
NIGERIA
eOUTHERN BORN O AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 1985  Economic Price for Coarse Grains I/
1986      1990
Cost per ton (f.o.b. U.S.) Cs)                 105       111
Freight and insurance ($)                       45        45
C.I.F. Nigerian Port ($)                       150       156
C.I.F. Nigerian Port (N)                       150       156
Port handling and clearance 2/                   6         6
Transport to retail market 37                   29        29
Reference Market Price                         185       191
Less local transport                             6         6
primary marketing                               8         8
Add value of stalks                             20        20
Farmgate economic value                        191       197
1/   Sorghum, millet, maize
2/   SCF - .33
3/   TCF - .39
WAPAB
February 1986



- 51-                           ANNEX 3-1
Appendix 4
Page 1
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basis of Estimates of Benefits
Deriving from Sale of Seeds
Sorghum
Assumes that farmers purchasing seed would keep the same amount of
seed for planting in subsequent years and that the varietal advantage would be
maintained for 4 years. The implications are as follows.
Incremental    Incremental
Production     Production
From New     From Retained  Total Incremental
Seed Sold        Seed            Seed           Production
Year       tons           tons            tons              tons
2          7.5             75             -                 75
3         12.5            125             75               200
4         30              300            200               500
5         50              500            500             1,000
Incremental production 10 kg per 1 kg seed.
Millet
Assumes that farmers purchasing seed would keep the same amount of
seed for planting in the following two years but that in the fourth year they
would purchase new seed. The response to new seed is estimated at 16 kg per kg.
In the second year it is 8 kg and in the third it is 4 kg. The implications are
as follows.
Incremental    Incremental
Production     Production
From New     From Retained  Total Incremental
Seed Sold        Seed            Seed           Production
Year       tons           tons            tons              tons
2          1.5             24             -                 24
3          3               48             12                60
4          4.5             72             30               102
5          7.5            120             48               168
WAPAB
February 1986



- 52-                             ANNEX 3-1
Append ix 4
Page 2
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Maize
The assumptions of use and deterioration are the same as for millet
but the response rates are estimated by 5 kg per kg of seed in year 1, 2 kg in
year 2 and 1 kg in year 3.
The implications are as follows.
Incremental    Incremental
Production     Production
From New       From Old     Total Incremental
Seed Sold        Seed           Seed           Production
Year       tons          tons            tons             tons
2         13.5            68            -                 68
3         22.5           112             34              146.
4         54             270             73              343
5        121.5           607            163              770
WAPAB
February L986



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-1
Appendix 5
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs and Returns to Use of Small Pumps
For Irrigation from Open Water
Costs per .6 ha.
Financial      Economic
Running costs                  160             63
Fertilizer                      67             50
Other chemicals                 20             18
Seed                            60             40
Labour (160 person days)*      480            158
787            329
Cost per ha.                 1,312            548
* Assuming N3.0 per day during the dry season.
WAPAB
February 1986



- 54-                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Services
1.        Primarj responsibility for agricultural development in Borno
State rests with the State's Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANR). This Ministry comprises a general administrative division and
three operational divisions: Agricultural Services (including training,
extension, inputs, fisheries and mechanical services), Produce Inspection
(including pest control), and Irrigation. MANR is responsible also for
input distribution, some agricultural credit and Tractor Hire Units (THU).
Local Government Councils (LGC), which report to the Ministry of Local
Government (MLG), are also responsible for agricultural extension within
their council areas resulting in overlapping responsibilities between NLG
and MANR. The proposed project would take over the responsibilities for
the main crop production services of both ministries with the exception of
the tractor hire units (para 2). It would draw its staff from existing
cadres and apart from an internationally recruited senior agronomist, there
would be no incremental salary costs (para 5).
2.        Government operated THU, which are highly subsidized and
politicised throughout Nigeria, have proved uneconomic and a serious
financial drain on federal and state budgets. Experience has shown
however, that given the opportunity to charge adequate rates and when spare
parts are available private sector operators can successfully provide such
services. Consequently, while there is no justification for supporting THU
under the project, a study would be carried out to prepare proposals for
the progressive transfer of THU to private operators [para 3.15 (c)].
3.        Extension.  Existing extension services in the project area
provide broad geographic coverage but have little impact. Reasons for this
include a lack of clearly defined messages, an absence of supporting
inputs, poor management and organization and low morale resulting from the
above factors combined with the non payment of allowances and the absence
of adequate transport. The proposed project would address this situation
through the following initiatives:
(a) appointment of a senior agronomist to identify appropriate
technical messages;
(b) improved supply and availability of agricultural inputs;
(c) an improved management system designed by the internationally
recruited staff;
(d) the provision of transport to be purchased by the staff on an
installment basis; and
(e) a reduction in the number of staff now employed in order to
demonstrate the possibility of implementing an improved program



- 55                                x ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 4
with a lower salary cost which could release funds to pay for
allowances.
4.        There would be some 120 extension staff in the zones as compared
with about 170 at present. Of these 111 would be posted to village areas
for direct farmer contact work. The main thrust of project initiatives
would be the concentration of effort on a limited number of well proven
messages and upon the development of a structured work program providing
targets capable of objective measurement, combined with improved in-service
training. The program would draw on experience from neighboring ADPs in
which a modified 'Training and Visit' system has been in use, and on the
measures being introduced to improve their extension performance.
5.        In assessing project costs and benefits it has beer assumed that:
a)   existing extension services would have continued without the
project;
b)   there would be no increase in the number of existing staff;
c)   farmers who adopted new technology would continue to apply this
after project completion without further extension effort; and
d)   after project completion extension staff would be employed in
developing additional benefits from new initiatives on other
farmers.
Consequently, existing extension services have not been included as a cost
when calculating the project economic rate of return.
6.        A detailed account of the extension proposals is provided in
Working Paper 1.
7.        Research.  One of the country's major agricultural research
institutes (the Lake Chad Research Institute) has its headquarters in
Maiduguri, and has recently extended its mandate to cover Borno state as a
whole with a program which includes three sub-stations in the project area
dealing with the main rainfed crops. BOADAP has an extensive experimental
program covering the northern part of the state which should provide
information on sorghum, millet and cowpeas. In addition to this work
within the state the project would draw on the extensive adaptive research
work carried out under similar ecological conditions under the ADPs in
neighboring Kano and Bauchi states.
8.        The more fundamental aspects of agricultural research (such as
plant breeding and protection) for northern Nigeria are dealt with by the
Institute of Agricultural Research at Samaru, and for cowpeas and maize
there is also relevant work at the International Institute for Tropical
Agriculture (IITA) at Ibadan.



- 56 -                         AMNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 4
9.        Undoubtedly there are gaps in the range of technical information
currently available for the ecological zones of northern Nigeria. However,
a comparatively small, localized project is not the correct medium for
attempting to rectify that situation. The project would focus its
investigation program on two areas of activity. The first would be clearly
targeted survey work to identify technical constraints faced by farmers.
From this the availability of appropriate information or inputs to address
these constraints would be assessed. In cases where solutions to farmers
problems are not readily available the research stations would be alerted
to the details of these unfilled gaps in the existing pool of knowledge.
This work would be carried out by a mixture of staff from the project and
from state research and university institutes. The second sphere of
investigational work would cover the development of small scale irrigation.
This would include a review of the considerable body of available
information on the area's shallow aquifers, supplementary surveys where
necessary and field level trials of the various methods of fadama
development in use on neighboring projects (e.g. washbores, lrilled wells,
bailer tubewells etc). This program would also include
demonstration/trials of various possible crops (such as a wider range of
vegetables, maize, rice, cowpeas) with potential for the irrigated farms.
10.       The project technical assistance fund would finance outside
support for both of the above investigations while other costs would be
drawn from an investigations budget. The program would be implemented by
the senior agronomist, assisted by an investigations officer at each zone.
11.       Seed Production.  Responsibility for providing seed of
alternative varieties to the farmers' traditional cultivars has rested with
two organizations in the state. The National Seed Service which is the
source of supply of "foundation seed" from which commercial seed is
multiplied, and MANR which has a number of direct production units for
bulking up seed for farmers. The system has suffered from two weaknesses.
First, the genetic quality if the material to be multiplied has been highly
variable, and second the financial and managerial resources for seed
bulking have been inadequate. Consequently, the volume and quality of seed
available has been erratic and farmer demand could only be stimulated by
heavy subsidies.
12.       The proposed project would deal with this situatio. 'ay
establishing a small farm (2 to 3 ha) on which the best possible material
(breeder/foundation seed) from the research stations would be multiplied.
This should provide basic seed of a better genetic quality than that which
has been issued in the past. The responsibility for identifying and
obtaining this material would rest with the senior agronomist, and its
multiplication would be carried out by the seeds officer stationed at Biu.
13.       The production of commercial seed would not be carried out on
government plots but would be contracted out to suitable large scale
farmers. The arrangement of contracts, issue of seed and field inspections
would be the responsibility of the seeds officer under the direction of the
senior agronomist. Amongst the two hundred or so large scale farmers in



_ 57 -                            ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 4
the area there are individual enterprises with adequate resources for this
task including internationally recruited staff and appropriate machinery
and equipment.
14.      Project management would purchase seed from the contractors and
deliver it to the commercial services for sale to farmers. Further details
are provided in Working Paper 1.
WAPAB
February 1986



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Inputs
1.        The supply of farm inputs would be vital to increasing
agricultural production through farmers using alternative varieties of
seeds, fertilizers, herbicides, insecticides and farm machinery and
equipment.   At present in the project area, fertilizer is the dominant
input as sales of agrichemicals and non-traditional farm supplies are
negligible. Fertilizer is distributed by the Fertilizer Section of the
MANR's Agricultural Services Division which arranges with the Federal
Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution Department (FPDD) for delivery of
supplies to 3 primary distribution points from which the fertilizer is
redirected to retail stores at 16 sites. Total storage capacity of these
stores is 17,000 tons but annual sales have not exceeded 10,000 tons.
Capacity per outlet varies from 300 tons to 2,400 tons while sales in 1984
ranged from 39 tons to 1,800 tons.
2.        The BSG has a policy of restricting sales to its own stores and
only to bona fide farmers. This reduces availability and leads to lower
sales. Responsibility and authority over the total operation of input
supplies is rather diffused as procurement, transport, storage, finance and
sales are not treated as an integrated operation. Consequently, there is
i) a mismatch between the fertilizer nutrients needed and those available
(also partly due to wrong deliveries by FPDD); (ii) no proper evaluation of
efficiency and costs; (iii) no attempts at cost recovery; and (iv) poorly
constructed and badly maintained storage facilities many of which need to
be renovated in spite of recent construction. Limited BSG funds and the
difficulty of obtaining foreign exchange allocations and imnort licenses
result in limited supplies of imported inputs which consequently are sold
at high prices.
3.        The project's objectives would be to increase availability of
inputs and establish a cost-effective and sustainable approach to farm
input distribution. The project would implement the following initiatives
to attain these objectives:
(a) increase the availability of farm inputs through both local and
international procurement and by maximizing the use of Bank funds
in order to overcome problems of foreign exchange which currently
restrict supplies and consequently raise prices;
(b) minimize the cost of procurement, transport, handling and
distribution by: (i) procuring supplies in bulk and through
competitive bidding; (ii) relying on private sector transport for
carriage of goods; and (iii) operating only 14 outlets with the



ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 4
- 59 -
objective of reducing the number of these outlets in favor of
private sector retailers;
(c) establish an input supply system that would not be a drain on
government resources by: (i) pricing goods on the basis of
full-cost recovery; and (ii) closing down low turnover outlets
and using village-level retailers who carry farm supplies as only
one of their several lines;
(d) establish an input supply system that would be self-sustaining
beyond the project period by: (i) reducing government involvement
in the distribution system and evolving a network of private
retailers; and (ii) increasing the possibility of obtaining
imported inputs through arrangements that would enable the
project to use Naira funds for this purpose well before the
project ends;
Ce) improving the nutrient balance of fertilizer ordered from FPDD;
and
(f) managing on a commercial basis with profit and loss
accountability the purchase transport, storage and distribution
of farm inputs which would be sold through private retailers and
in project outlets.
4.        A Commercial Services Division would be created to manage the
input supply system. It would be headed by a Principal Commercial officer
located at project headquarters in Maiduguri. The Division would have the
following main sections:
(a) Finance. The Project's Financial Controller and Principal
Accountant would have the overall responsibility for financial
and accounting matters, but one accounting officer would be
specifically responsible for the accounts of the Commercial
Division including stock control, maintenance of accounting
records and preparation of monthly balance sheets and income and
expenditure statements.
(b) Operations. The Principal Commercial Officer would be the head
of operations and he would be assisted by one commercial officer
(sales and supplies) at head office and two commercial officers
in the Area Offices at Biu and Bama. They would be responsible
for the operation of 14 outlets of which eight would be operated
on a full-time basis and six on market days only. The stores at
Biu, Bama and Damboa would carry a full range of inputs,
including seeds, fertilizer, herbicides, insecticides and farm
implements while the other stores would stock seeds, seed
dressing, storage chemicals and fertilizers only. All items
would be sold for cash which would be, without delay, deposited
in the nearest bank as the area is particularly well-served by
banks.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 4
- 60 -
(c) Audit. An audit team consisting of an Audit Assistant and two
audit clerks would maintain a monthly on-the-spot check of
stocks, cash, bank deposits, and internal control procedures in
order that management is provided with a regular feedback on
adequacy of controls and supervision.
5.        The Commercial Division would have a total staff complement of
59, all of whom would be non-incremental. Emphasis would be given to staff
training which would include on-the-job training as well as attending
courses at local institutions. Besides, short-term attachment to the Kano
State Agricultural Supply Co. and the Bauchi State Agricultural Supply Co.
would be arranged.
WAPAB
February 1986



NIGERIA
SOUrHFRN  BORNO AGRICULTURAI DEVEl.OPMENT PROJECT
Farm Inputs
(In Constant 1985 Naira and by PY)
ShMIUIM                                   hu Cstk to                          tals 5nrcl5rd  Cmtni 5.s
out       12 3 4            STUlu t  1               2       3       4      5   Total    1       2 J             4      5    rat.l
frWua tu* *:2se  310e0   6o:  4U1s.0                                     s         Me   3           0. m.s e4 5.212.  20737.5
Kim                        tAl22.5    3|".so 882                        m2i e.              Ila$ 0.4   70i   142,4  261,6               51.36   3-9.2   521.5
Nola                                   TON        - 02  0.3  0.3  0.4  l5,    12             2       I,0    S.6    4W2   13.2    -    1.0    4.0    S.2    6%1    6l.6
caUmIh    i tiUCE au, 35.            OLIT0        - 1.5    3   4   9  1t.5   24    -    6.0   720    44.0  216,0  441,0                 44.3   95.   204.4  334.a   61.
Elm   1NCtlC5 t (LU                 04 L5T1       -   2 2,4  2,4  2.4  t92    17    -   34.0   40.3   40.6   40,l  12.4    -   41,    54,l   5e3.   43.2   217.7
5mCICiE oTf                            TON       -  1.2  5.6  5.6  1,6     A   12    -   14A4    5,2   19,2   19.2   n2,0               17.   25.5   27MS   29,6   140.o
tiltC                          1000 LITErS    - 1.5   3   6   9   19,5             -   22.5   45o0   t0,0  I350  M2S    -   27.7   597   129.6  20.2   425.6
Ila" IiCmu                             TON     0.2  0,7    2 4.5    7  14.4  4.4   .0    4S   l52,    23.3   44,3   91.0  le.            .5   17.0   41.3   49.4   134,
FM  KUS      . Du, aECM                          50  150 400  450 50  It5  0.4 26.e6 .0  26o40   530,0  200.0  42.0  22.9   74,5  215.3   23.0  357,3   693S0
oN-xmu                                1AC4        -  40 e00  00  100  3M0 0,0          -    3.4    4.0    40 .o       0   21.6    -    46    3.4    9.3   10.2    32.5
rAITE MIL                              4          -  20  20  20  20    is  0.          -   1.0so   10.0    0.o   10.    40.0       -   12.6   14.0   55.4   17.0    59.2
aIim        5iic5                     EACH        - NO 500  50  s5o  2,000  0.4e       -   20,0       .    20M0   20.0    3.0      -   24,6   24.5   21.7   31,0   110.3
1c. FM   111E t                       UP- .    .    .                      -           -  5.00.    00,0  100,0  10010  400,0   5- 27.34 IA   154.4   49.5   592.t
ITsu l NW                                                                              215,   574.4  392 1199.2 10.4 432.1  24,0  731.5 1,245.4 W1M27,7 2.,  4,537.
2. w
s3 main                                TON       - 0.6  0.  0,3 O.        3   52    -    72         M.    9.6    9.4    34        -    Ol    55.9   133,1   14.9    49.4
Cam UGTICIK UCT. I.l               1000 LITtES    -  1J2  1.4   6   9  17,6   24            M el   3 3.   544.0  254.0  422,4    -   3564   44.  2N4   334.0   42.2
iBM   SitiiE   LV                  5000 L50W3    -  14 15.6 14.6 12.6  54.       7    -  230.0  24U.2  240,2  214.2  941.6    -  mai,  351.7   554   312.0  11332.2
tilCU iinn                             rat       - 1.0  2,4  2.4  2.4       9   12   2*       4   2N.0    I.  264   160,0          -   24,4    3.2    41.3   44*.   150.7
No ff1m3 1        Wm                   LO         -  5S0 200  210  440  100    fai    -   040,0  30    50e.0   5l    400e0              74.5  507.4  144.5   253.1    32.l
WHNR                                  EC"         -  f0  55  150  55    50  0,04       -    5.4      90      M,0    9.0    2.4    -    t.9   12.6   1l.    15,3    46.7
PA*1  11.1                            E0          -  20  20  20  20        0   0.5     -   10.o    50,0   lo.o    0.00   4.0    -   52,3   14.,  15.4   17.0    59.2
a nrsii film                          CAM         - 400 400 500 50  SIM   0,04         -    6,   ia4       20.0   20.0  720.       -   19#7   21.2   20.7   31.    1006
AIa. FZ    ru T                       LU5         .    .       .- .*.,0 l                          500.0  1ee,0  14000   400,0         127. W ll  14  ISM    59.S    592.1
hTW    1                                                                                  -  4M7W0  51,   449,   74742,474      .     -   0.3   742.   9753   212.3  3.53.2
Teu i   SMUt                                                                          25,3  043,4* 1,410.3 1,344. 2-374.0  m.777,9  24.10 1,34 5i-976 2-.3425 3,92.4 50,073.9
WAPAB
February 1986
05



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Engineering Services
Road Development
1.        The project area is traversed by a network of 640 km all-weather
federal and state roads and the Federal and State Governments are
responsible for constructing and maintaining their respective roads. The
majority are of recent construction and maintenance is generally adequate.
This (640) km network is supplemented by about 900 km of feeder roads
constructed and maintained by Local Government Authorities (LGA). There has
been negligible new construction since 1978. Present condition of LGA
roads is uniformly bad due to neglected maintenance over many years.
Present LGA budget allocation for road works is about N5,000 per annum for
an average of 150 kms. Under the present and expected LGA funding no
proper maintenance on existing (LGA) road network is likely to be
performed. Consequently, there is no justification in increasing their
commitments by constructing additional feeder roads.
2.        Access to Farm Communities.  Most villages and farm communities
in agriculturally developed areas are remote from the federal, state and
LGA roads. However, a number of communities have constructed, through
self-help, their own systems of inter-connecting tracks and accesses to
all-weather roads. Almost all traffic is by 1 ton capacity 2-wheel drive
pick-ups and mini-buses, with market-day traffic averaging 25-40 vehicles.
The tracks are passable with care throughout the dry season, but transport
cost are some 50% greater than on all-weather roads. Wet season access,
however, is very unreliable mainly due to the absence of adequate crossings
over seasonal water courses and because of spate induced erosion. Road use
is reduced to less than 50%, and unit transportation cost increases to
about double the all-weather road rate. Market prices for grain surpluses
rise sharply by up to 45%, in the wet season months of May-June, but, due
to unreliability of access at this time, farmers generally dispose of
surplus before the onset of rain.
3.        Access to Areas of High Agricultural Potential.  Fadamas border-
ing the Gongola, Hawal and Yedseram rivers in Biu, Gujba and Askira-Uba
LGAs are the main areas of potential agricultural development within the
project area. They present also the most difficult access problems, which
partly explains their current underdevelopment. The largest area is the
Gongola fadama where present access is by community-built tracks of 15-25
km traversing the sparsely populated basalt plateau, ultimately descending
the steep boulder-strewn escarpment and crossing alluvial re-entrants.
Alluvium is totally impassable to even 4-wheel drive vehicles during the
wet season, and farmers resort to donkey transport to reach the escarpment
toe. Incremental transport cost relative to all-weather road is 100% in
dry weather, and 200-300% in wet weather.



- 63 -                             ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 3
4.        Access Improvement Program.  Objectives of this project component
are:
(a) to improve wet-weather serviceability of community-built access
tracks for 1 ton 4X2 pick-ups to 85%;
(b) to provide reliable year-round access to the fadamas for 1 ton
4X2 pickups with 85% serviceability in the wet season; and
(c) to carry out "spot improvements" to existing LGA roads serving
specific project agricultural development activities.
5.        The program would include the following activities:
(a) detailed survey of access tracks in the project area;
(C) establishment of a Rural Roads Unit (RRU) to design and implement
the Access Improvement Program by force account;
(c)  commissioning the existing new but unused MANR workshops at
Maiduguri as the project's main workshop, and upgrading of
existing simple vehicle maintenance and repair bays at Bama and
Biu;
(d)  provision of materials, advice and supervision to village commu-
nities for self-help improvements to 1,000 kwm of existing
community access tracks;
Ce)  construction of 135 km new access tracks to the fadamas, and
their maintenance throughout the project period;
(f) "spot improvements" to 150 km of LGA feeder roads;
(g) train project and LGA staff in rural road planning, construction
and maintenance.
6.        Community Access Tracks.  Generally, such tracks have developed
along watersheds, but watercourse crossings average one per 2.5 km. In the
wet season these are subject to spate ard repeated bank erosion, which
progressively steepens the approaches. Trafficability would be ensured in
all but the most severe rainfall by installing drifts (causeways) of
gabions, mattresses, or combinations of both. Approach gradients would be
reduced to maximum 12%. Under this largely self-help activity the project
would supply materials, tools, advice and supervision. An annual track
improvement program would be prepared from the track survey (5a), and after
consultation with communities. A small range of standard drift designs
would be developed by RRU, from which individual stream drifts would be
selected. The project would maintain adequate stocks of gabions,
mattresses and installation tools to be loaned to villages. A package of
drift materials and loan toolkits would be delivered to each involved
village, together with instruction on installation, and advise on track



- 64 -                             ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 3
improvement by a RRU foreman. Villagers would collect and supply stone
filling to site, and a rate agreed of up to N50 per cubic meter to be paid
by the project.
7.        Fadama Accesses.  Alignment selection, design standards and
specifications would recognize that post-project maintenance of these long
accesses is likely to become a responsibility of the fadama communities.
The need to minimize maintenance would be reflected in geometrical
standards and drainage facilities. Maximum gradient would not exceed 10%.
Established streamcourses would be crossed by gabion/reno mattress drifts,
minimum width 3 m, maximum width 4 m and culverts restricted to relief of
surface water. Laterite or gravel pavement would be restricted to 3.5 m
width with passing places suited to the topography. Pavement thickness
would be 250 mm with an exaggerated camber of 75-100 mm.
8.        LGA Spot Improvements.  Alignment, specification and construction
standard of LGA roads are extremely variable, but all are now in a poor
state of repair. Generally, only minor alignment improvement would be
undertaken, and spot improvements should be limited to:
(i) reinstating drainage systems, with additions as necessary
using culverts and gabion/mattress combinations; and
(ii) reinstating subgrade and laterite pavements.
Pavement would be restricted wherever possible to 4m width, with 20m
passing places at 200 m intervals. Where this is impractical, pavement
width would not exceed 6m. Pavement thickness should be 225 mm with
exaggerated camber.
WAPAB
February 1986



-  65  -                         ANNME 3-5
Page I of 2
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Engineering Services
Domestic Rural Water Supply
1.        Background. Borno State Government has made substantial efforts
to improve the availability of potable water throughout the state. Most
urban and large rural communities have been supplied with a piped water
system from boreholes with diesel driven pumps. Both the Borno State Water
Board (BSWB) and Local Government Authorities (LGA) have in the past funded
programs to improve on the quality of open wells for smAller village
communities. No recent census data on population distribution is available
but survey results indicate that 70Z of the rural population live in
villages of less than 1,000 people which now fall outside the present
mandate of BSWB's rural water development program, which concentrates on
the installation of boreholes fitted with powered pumps. Zonal water
source figures are not available, but most recent estimates show that for
Borno State as a whole there are some 9,000 hand dug wells of which about
3,000 are concrete lined. The proportion of the rural population served by
different types of water supply are estimated as:
boreholes                            7%
improved wells                      20%
unimproved wells and open water    73%
The bulk of the unimproved water sources are located in the smaller village
communities.
2.        Technical Options.  In Nigeria where there is an acquifer
relatively close to the surface, there are two main approaches to providing
better quality water for small rural communities. First, to drill
boreholes and fit them with hand pumps. This has been the basis of large
scale developments in other Bank funded projects. Second, which has also
been supported under Bank funded ADPs, is to improve upon existing hand dug
wells and to assist with the development of new concrete lined wells.
3.        A survey of the hydro-geological formation in South Borno by Avee
Enterprises (an offshoot of Land and Water Management of Cambridge U.K.) in
1980 concluded that of the four major acquifers occurring in the area the
shallowest is difficult to develop for boreholes because of its nature
while the remaining three would require powered pumps to raise the water
because of their depth. They therefore recommended that the domestic water
development program be based on hand dug wells. These would tap the water
in the weathered mantle overlying the crystalline rocks, the surface
alluvium overlying the shales and the superficial aquifers of the Chad
Basin Formation. BSWB technical staff have confirmed the findings of this
study.
4.        Project Proposals.  The project would adopt the following four
approaches to improving on village water supplies depending upon the
situation in any given area:



-  66  -                            ANE 3-5
Page 2 of 2
(a) deepening and lining existing wells;
(b) digging and lining new wells;
(c) the construction of storage ponds; and
(d) drilling new boreholes.
5.        The proportion of each type of initiative would be finally
determined following on an initial survey of village needs and after
consultation with local communities. It is estimated that some 750 vells
would be improved or newly dug, about 10 boreholes drilled and up to 40
ponds constructed.
6.        The size of the program has been determined on the basis of
experience with managing scattered well digging teams under previous
programs in the area. A Rural Water Supply team would be headed by a
Senior Technical Officer who would be responsible to the Chief Engineer
(CF) who would produce designs and control standards. The siting of new
wells and ponds would be decided on the basis of local knowledge
supplemented with hydro-geological data. The project would donate cement
and steel to the commmnity together with the loan of a wellhead frame,
tools and the services of two artisans. The labour for digging would be
voluntary, as in the case with existing programs. The project would have a
mobile team equipped with a jack hammer, explosives and pumping equipment
to be used for well deepening and rock penetration. Total cost of the
program is estimated at N6.3 mn.
7.        Yields of typical wells in the area are 1 m /hour but with
deepening and lining this can be increased to 5 m /hour. Extraction is by
bucket and rope and with a wellhead designed to exclude surface water,
there is a minimum of pollution. Well sealing and handpump installation
has not proved popular in neighboring states because the water is
inaccessible if the pump breaks. A new well can be expected to serve
between 250 and 300 people, whilst the deepening and lining of an existing
well can increase the flow to supply an additional 150 to 200 people. A
combination of both activities is expected to benefit some 225,000 people.
Ponds would serve communities of up to 1,500 and would also be expected to
provide at least part of the water requirements of village livestock.
WAPAB
February 1986



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training and Manpower Development
1.        The short-term role of the project training and manpower develop-
ment program would be to ensure the availability of skills required for
achievement of project objectives. The program would concentrate ou both
project staff and community members within the project area. A long-term
role would be to put in place a structure which would define training
needs, introduce a systematic in-service program reflect changes in tech-
nology and policy, and contribute to staff development initiatives. The
SBADP training program would be developed in close cooperation with BOADAP
to ensure that training needs assessment and courses meet the requirements
of both projects. The needs, means, and work plan determinations including
various courses would be implemented, as much as possible, in common.
2.        The project training and manpower development program would be
directed by a Senior Training Officer (STO), who would participate as a
member of the Manpower Development and Training Sub-Committee of BADPEC
(Annex 3-9, para 2) and would also be a member of SBADPMU. The STO would
take overall responsibility for organizing all training activities
including management training for senior staff, technical training for
engineering staff and local community members, and agricultural training
for extension workers and farmers. The STO, together with each division
manager and with ARMTI assistance would prepare training plans to meet the
respective division needs. These plans would be evaluated and updated
annually.
3.        The Training and Manpower Development division would consist of
three units:
(a) Manpower Development Unit;
(b) Training Unit; and
(c) Media Production Unit.
Manpower Development Unit would be responsible for:
(i)      Recruitment assistance, as requested by project management,
including preparation of job descriptions, preparation of
advertisements, design of selection processes, preliminary
screening of candidates, organization of interviews.
(ii)     Project Related Training (PRT) exercises including
completing detailed job descriptions for all categories of
staff, training management in and assisting with skills gap



- 68 -                         ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 5
analysis and training needs assessment, X alyzing and
consolidating training needs and drawing up, jointly with
Training Section, a comprehensive program for PRT to be
approved by SBADPMU.
(iii)     Design of staff personnel record and performance evaluation
systems as directed by SBADPMU.
Uiv)      Ad-ising project staff on career development.
(v)      Participating as trainers in training programs related to
personnel and manpower development matters.
Training Unit would be responsible for:
(i)       Implementing the on-project courses that comprise part of
the ADP's PRT program.
(ii)      Liaison with other State and Federal training institutions
and, where relevant, technical assistance agencies, over
execution of the off-project components of the PRT program.
(iii)     Advising Division on design of routine in-service training
program and assisting with their execution on request.
*iv)      Participating in selection of staff for off-project
training.
Media Production Unit would take over and rehabilitate existing MANR
Agricultural Services Division printing and audio-visual equipment and
also, if necessary, make use of the currently operational Forestry Division
printing and graphics facilities. It would:
(i)      Design, test and produce audio-visual materials for all
project training programs. The prime user would be the
Technical Services Division, especially for staff training
and information for literate farmers.
(ii)     Operate a mobile training van for publicizing SBADP
activities and Divisional training and information programs
intended for rural audiences.
(iii)     Design and produce radio and television programs related to
project activities particularly regular farm programs.
The Training and Manpower Development Division would employ about 35 staff,
of which about 5 would be incremental, mainly technicians for audio-visual,
photo/video for graphic works.
4.        Project staff would be trained at the managerial and technical
supervisory levels, in agriculture, administration and accounting, and



-69-                               ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 5
vehicle and plant operation and maintenance, both through in-service
training and specialized training courses. The internationally recruited
staff would be expected to train their senior associates in managerial and
technical decision-making skills, as well as in-service training wherever
appropriate. Training activities, particularly of intermediate, junior
staff and local people would be conducted as much us possible in the field
and at the existing farm service centers in Bama and Biu. However, some of
the training activities either because of economies of scale or lack of
equipment at the farm service centers, would be conducted at the Staff
Training Center (STC) in Maiduguri. Training facilities in Bama and Biu
areas would be equipped to provide training in fadama irrigation and pump
maintenance. The training program would ensure proper coordination between
investigation works and extension. In addition to agriculture, training at
the farm service centers would be given in stores management, accounting,
water supply, and access road maintenance.
5.        SBADP training staff under the leadership of ARMTI/FACU would:
Action                                   Timing
(a)  Undertake a Project Related              To be completed within three
Training Component design                months of project effective-
for ADP                                  ness
(b)  Participate in training of               training staff to undergo
trainers courses - initial               initial course within six
course                                  months of project effective-
ness
Follow-up courses                        requirement and timing to be
decided following evaluation
of initial course
(c)  Draw up routine and special in-         To be completed within six
service training program for            months of project
project staff and community              effectiveness
members
(d)  Develop suitable audio and visual        initial materials to be
materials for training and field         developed and fed into courses
extension support                        over first 12 months.
Material to be updated
regularly
(e)  Design and test training evalua-        within two years of project
tion measures                            effectiveness
(f)  Produce detail staff personnel          within two years of project
record and detail job description        effectiveness
for all project staff categories
(g)  Analyze troining costs                  Annually



- 70 -                               ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 5
6.        There are four main objectives of training activities for
extension staff. First, training should provide staff at each level with
the general knowledge required for the efficient performance of their
function. This will require appropriate pre-service training and
occasional short inservice courses. In addition to specialized aspects of
agriculture, such training should cover for each staff level their work
responsibilities, extension methods and comnications, and, for sen_or
staff, in-field supervision and management. Second, objective is to
provide extension field staff with frequent advice on technology to promote
among farmers, particularly in response to seasonal and input-availability
conditions, as well as, cumulatively to upgrade their technical knowledge
and capability. Practical training is a basic part of this training.
Third, regular training sessions should be used to provide a venue where
production conditions, farmer response to recommended technology and staff
progress can be monitored. This feedback role of regular in-service
training is equally important as the "training" function noted above.
Finally, training should provide a structured means to bring extension
staff and agricultural researchers into frequent, direct contact. Such
contact enables researchers to be regularly apprised of farmers' actual
conditions and needs, and for extension to put constant pressure on
research to work on farmer-relevant topics. It also provides research with
an opportunity to try out on a widespread scale some of its more proven
findings by feeding them directly into the extension training system. The
occasional participation of other agricultural service organizations in
training sessions will also encourage result-orientation activities. To
obtain these objectives, the following training activities would take
place:
(i)       Pre-service Training
All extension field staff will receive from SBADP four weeks
pre-service training in project objectives, local
agricultural conditions and extension methodology. FACU
staff will also be closely involved in pre-service training
and implementation assistance in a broad sense.
(ii)      Regular In-service Training
(a) Fortnightly. A one-day training session should be held
of VEWs and their supervisors, the trainers being the
LGA and Zonal Extension Officers and specialists from
the zonal level. Given the numbers of staff, two such
sessions should be held each fortnight in Biu zone
(with about 35 VEW/Supervisors in each), and one in
Bama zone. The Senior Agronomist, Senior Extension
Officer and Training Officer from headquarters should
each attend one session in each zone each month. Local
Commercial Services staff should attend these sessions
at an appropriate time.



-71 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 5 of 5
(b) Monthly. A one-day workshop should be held under the
chairmanship of the Program Manager. It would be
attended by the Senior Extension Officer and two
headquarters specialists, the two Zonal Extension
Officers and six zonal specialists, the LGA Extension
Officers and researchers from the Lake Chad Research
Institute and BOADAP. Research and/or agronomists
working in Kano and Bauchi states, as well as local
senior Commercial Services staff, should also be
invited to attend occasionally. The workshop could be
held at Maiduguri, Biu and Bama in rotation.
(iii)    In-service Training Special Courses.
Each staff member should attend each year one short course
(three to ten days' duration, normally) on relevant
agricultural technology or extension methods. Initial focus
should go to extension methods. Such courses should be
arranged using local trainers or by bringing suitable
trainers to the state.
The scheduling of training activities and their qualitative
supervision would be the responsibility of the Training Officer. He would
pay particular attention to ensuring training is field-oriented and
practical, and that the regular in-service training sessions are utilized
to encourage feedback on farmers' production conditions and needs. More
detailed information is provided in Working Paper 1.
7.        The engineering division would with the support of the training
unit, implement an on-the-job training program for community members
concerned with road improvements/maintenance and water supply components.
WAPAB
February 1986



- 72 -
ANNEX 3-7
NIGERIA                 Page 1 of 2
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Federal Irrigation Studies
(Irrigation Study Fund)
1.        Background.  Large scale surface irrigation schemes in Nigeria
are of relatively recent origin and at present only about 35,000 ha is
irrigated annually. Modest areas of floodplains (fadamas) have also been
irrigated (largely under ADPs) and there is some pumping from shallow
tubewells and perennial rivers. The major issues facing Nigeria are
operating and managing existing schemes, developing a strategy for future
investment in irrigation and defining specific projects for future
development. It is therefore proposed to provide funds to finance studies
which address these issues.
2.        Ongoing Studies.  The Federal Department of Water Resources is
currently directing an important study on Assessment of Water Resources and
Investment Priority in Irrigation.  The study is being assisted by a
consultant provided by the FAO, and is expected to be completed by December
31, 1985. The study would provide information on the following:
(a)  a first estimate of surface and ground water availabilities;
(b) an indicative allocation of water among competing uses (power,
domestic water supply, industry and irrigation); and
(c) criteria for determining priority ranking of irrigation projects.
The study should also include an inventory of all existing completed and
partially completed larger schemes.
3.        Objective of Irrigation Studies.  To carry out studies needed to
take the Assessment of Water Resources Study to a fully integrated
irrigation s.-ategy and then to carry out prefeasibility and feasibility
studies of specific irrigation investments.
4.        Integrated Irrigation Strategy.  The Bank has not yet received
the completed Water Resources Study and it is not possible to identify
precisely those gaps which require filling. Nevertheless, major areas of
work are likely to be: (i) a review of operational efficiency of existing
schemes; (ii) water and project management; (iii) selection and design of
irrigation schemes. Proposed supplementary irrigation studies would
attempt to firm up estimates of availability of water resources for
irrigation and assist in formulating proposals for building local
capabilities in the planning and design of irrigation schemes.



ANNEX 3-7
- 73 -                      Page 2 of 2
5.        Prefeasibility and Feasibility Studies.  Further investment in
water resource development for irrigation is likely to have a high priority
and studies of specific investments will be needed. The Bank Loan would be
used to finance studies of up to three such investments.
6.        Management )f the Studies.  Up to US$2.5 mn would be made
available to the Fe4eral Department of Water Resources (FDWR) for
consultancy services. The proposed studies would be directed by the FDWR
in consultation with the Bank. The selection of consultants and their
terms of reference would be conducted in accordance with Bank Guidelines
(para 3.15).
WAPAB
February 1986



ANNEX 3-8
Table 1
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO .'GRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(Naira 'OOO)(US$'000)
Z             Z
Foreign       Total
Local        Foreign         Total      Exchange    Base Costs
A.  AGRICULTURE
Technical Services           873.8          542.7        1,416.5      38             5
Agricultu-al Investi-
gations                    674.1          827.3        1,501.4      55             5
Fertilizer                   446.2        1,338.8        1,785.0      75             6
Other Farm Inputs          1,388.2        4,476.0        5,864.2      76            21
Subtotal              3,382.3       7,184.8       10,567.1       68            37
B.  ENGINEERING
Community Access Track
Improvoment                213.9          384.7         598.6       64             2
Fada-a Access and LGA
Road Spot Improvement   1.587.7         2,228.1        3.815.9      58            13
Road Maintenance             158.6          249.5          408.1      61             1
Rural Water Supply         2,655.1        1,391.5        4,046.6      34            14
Mechanical Workshops         785.0          758.0        1,543.0      49             5
Buildings                     72.5           61.2          133.7      46             1
Headquarters                 158.6          364.6          523.2      70             2
Subtotal              5,631.4       5,437.6       11,069.1       49            39
C.  MANAGEMENT
Project Management and
Administration             775.1          617.4       1,392.5       44             5
Manpower Development and
Training                   778.9          473.9        1,252.8      38             4
Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation                 522.2          418.3         940.5       44             3
Finance                      323.6          348.9          672.5      52             2
Subtotal              2,399.8        1,858.5       4,258.3       44            15
D. FEDERAL COMPONENT
Irrigation Studies           625.0        1,875.0       2,500.0       75             9
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS      12,038.6       16,355.9       28,394.5      58           1OO
Physical Contingencies       651.3          989.3        1,640.7      60             6
Price Contingencies        6,284.3        3,005.5       9,289.8       32            33
TOTAL PROJECT COST            18,974.2       20,350.7       39,324.9       52          138
WAPAB
February 1986



-  75 -                           ANNEX 3-8
~~ 75      ~~~~~~ ~Table -2
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Components by Year (1)
(Nairs' 000)(US*000)
1         2          3          4          5        Total
A.  AGRICULTURE
Technical  Services        422.0    507.8       405.2      310.7      351.5   [.997.2
Agricultural Investi-      714.1    268.6       321.7      372.4      316.9    1,993.7
gations
Fertilizer                  -        320.7      533.5      750.4    1,132.5   2,737.1
Other Farm Inputs          466.1   1,291.2    1,605.2    2,236.0    2,936.7   8,535.2
Subtotal            1,602.2  2,388.3    2,865.6    3,669.5    4,737.6  15,263.2
B.   ENGINEERING
Community Access Track     108.0    i51.9       202.5      189.8        160.1    812.3
Improvement
Fadama Access and LGA    2,053.2    649.3       733.4      731.4        821.7  4,989.0
Road Spot Improvement
Road Maintenance           -         263.7       89.8      100.3        111.7   565.5
Rural Water Supply         468.4   1,317.7    1,489.0   1,654.0       1,407.8 6,336.9
Mechanical Workshops       698.8    272.3       342.6      384.9        420.6  2,119.2
Buildings                   74.6      27.5       24.6       28.0         23.3   178.0
Headquarters               199.5    101.1       111.2      122.5        134.8   669.1
Subtotal            3,602.5  2,783.5    2,993.1    3,210.9       3,080.0 15,670.0
C.  MANGEMENT
Project Management and     470.1    441.5       435.1      265.9       296.5   1,909.2
Administration
Manpover Dev. & Training   379.4    435.9       287.5      325.5       366.7   1,795.0
Planning, Monitoring and   320.6    343.8       235.8      180.1       203.8  1,284.1
Evaluation
Finance                    172.2    277.0       161.6      183.9       108.7    903.5
Subtotal            1,342.3   1,498.2    1,120.0      955.4       975.7   5,891.8
D.  FEDERAL COMPONENT
Irrigation Studies      2,500.0     -           -          -           -       2,500.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST            9,047.1   6,669.9    6,978.8    7,836.0     8,793.1  39,324.9
(1) Including Contingencies.
WAPAB
February 1986



NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost by Categories and Years
Totuls Incluln  Cntinemlhs                      To.), 1lWUw CmtL1rin
(SIRA '000)                                      (M  '000
1      2       3       4       5     rotal       1      2       3       4       S    Total
man  *::uaam  3383328 88=2322  33s2833  32333382  312331 3s32323  -2=22 2a3 w s3*3s32
1.    CAPITAL COSTS
A.   Buildings                                       769,1 1456.9  993.0 1W123.7 1.005.7 5,338.4    769.1 1s456.9  983,0 1123,7 1.0*5.7 5s A4
B.   Plant & Equipment                             2.700,9  946.   613.2  642.0  647.  5,550*3  MO0.   946,6  613.2  642.0  647.6  550.3
C.  Vehicles                                         968*7   1075    19.4               - _  1174e6   968.7  107.3   99,4       -       -  11u74.6
D.   Initial Distribution  Cost                      204.C0                            -   204.0   204.0                                     204.3
Subtotal                               4,642.6 2.510,9 16N94.7 1.76587 1,65393 12t267*2 4,642.6 2,510.9 1W6P7 1,765.7 1,451.3 12,247.2
gma 3822222 fsr23   3a2sax2r 9s*832 3a82a23    2a32    3888222   3333   _2  1382I33212
II.   OPERATING COSTS
A.   Farm Inputs                                      24.0 1336.4 1,997.6 2M803,5 3,922#4 10.07349    24.0 1,336.4 13967A 6 2l1103.5 3922.4 10M073U
B.  Salaries                                         749*0  I9SM5 1,060.4 1P017.4  051.7  4,618.0   749.0  939,5 1060.4 14017.4  951.7 4,61.0
C.  Plant & Equipment Operation                      M2521   412.3  490.9   567.7  636.1  2,359*1   252M1   412.3  490.9   567.7  63Me1  2,3w91
D.   Vehicle Operation & Maintenai.ce                220.9  2M8.9  319,7   314MA   351.9 1.4952    220.9  296,9  31897  314.8   351.9  1.495,2
E.  General Services                                 656,5 1,181.8 1.42646 1.366,8 1,7.   6,011.4    658.5 1181.8 10426*6 136608 13777  60011A4
F.  Fed. Irrigation  Subsector Studies 2,500.0                   - 0                       2,500.0  2.500.0                                 24500.0
Subtotal                               4.404,5 4,159.0 5W264,2 6,07043 7,J39A8 27,057.7 4W4O5 4,159,0 5,294.2 6.070*3 7P139.8 27057.7
*==  S1112=1 1511628814 as samass 2111=11aSS R san  axafSX tlllsX  0asllX s^l 8118m  JS =1=11
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                       9,04471 64t69,9 6973,3 7,336.0 9,793.1 39324.9  9047,1 6#469.9 6,976,3 70me0 3,Me.1 N3.24,9
WAFAB
February 1986



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-9
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program Cost and Financing Plan
(in N Million)
PY1    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5   Total    %
Project Cost:
IBRD                    7.0    4.0    4.0    4.6    5.4    25.0    63
FMG                     1.0    1.5    1.8    2.0    2.2      8.5    22
BSG                     1.0    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2      5.8    15
9.0    6.7    7.0    7.8    8.8    39.3   100
Existing Staff:
BSG                     1.5    1.9    2.2    2.5    2.9    11.0
Fertilizer
(Non-Incremental)
FMG 1/                  0.6    0.5    0.2     -       -      1.3
BSG T/                  0.3    0.2    0.1     -       -      0.6
Farmers                 2.3    2.6    3.2    3.7    3.9    15.7
Total              13.7   11.9   12.7   14.0   15.6    67.9
_ummary:
IBRD                    7.0    4.0    4.0    4.6    5.4    25.0    37
FMG                     1.6    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.2      9.8    14
BSG                     2.8    3.3    3.5    3.7    4.1    17.4    26
Farmers                2.3    2.6    3.2    3.7    3.9    15.7    23
13.7   11.9   12.7   14.0   15.6    67.9   100
1/ Fertilizer subsidy:       1986   1987   1988
FMG share (1)       20      14      7
BSG share (Z)        10      6      6
30     20     10
FAPAB
February 1986



- 78 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 1 of 6
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
Organization and Management
1.       While the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Rural Development (FMAWRRD) would be responsible for ensuring that the
project was carried out in accordance with the project and loan
agreements, Born.., State Government (BSG) would have direct
responsibility for implementing the Southern Borno ADP (SBADP)
component. At the apex of the state project organizational structure
would be the Borno Agricultural Development Program Executive Committee
(BADPEC). This committee would result from a modification of an
existing committee - the Borno state Acclerated Development Area
(BOADAP) Executive Committee established under Gazette notice in April
1985. BOADAP Executive Committee would be retitled the Borno
Agricultural Development Program Executive Committee (BADPEC) and its
functions and powers amended to include SBADP. Its membership would be
increased with the inclusion of (a) the Head of the Federal Agricultural
Coordinating Unit (FACU); (b) the Project Manager; and (c) a fifth
member representing the State Development zones as selected by the
Constituent Local Government Councils. Schedule 2 to the enabling Edict
would be enlarged to include the Local Governments (in the project area)
of Bama, Gwoza, Askira/Uba, Damboa, Gujba, and Biu.  The Ex--cutive
Committee would otherwise perform the duties and responsibilities as
described in the Edict. The new committee (BADPEC) would be chaired by
the Borno State Governor and would be responsible for coordinating
project activities with other ongoing development programs especially
the Accelerated Area Development Program; providing policy guidance,
approving annual work programs, budgets and ensuring that adequate funds
are made available in a timely manner. The Committee would consist of
the following members or their representative: Borno State Governor
(Chairman); Commissioner of Agriculture and Natural Resources (Vice
Chairman); the Commissioners of Finance and Economic Development, Rural
Development, Works and Housing, Local Government; the State
Attorney-General; the Secretary to the Military Government; Permanent
Secretary, MANR; SBADP Manager; BOAIMP Manager; representatives of the
Development Zones; the Director of the Federal Department of Rural
Development (FDRD), and the Head of the Federal Agricultural
Coordinating Unit (FACU).
2.        BADPEC would have two subcommittees (i) a Manpower Development
and Training Sub-Committee whose role would be to advise on personnel
policy, interview candidates for posts on GL 12 and above, adjudicate
disciplinary matters relating to staff of GL 12 or above, decide on
overseas training and study tours, recommend promotions and transfer of
senior staff, and review the annual training components of work



-79 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 2 of 6
programs; and (ii) the Finance and General Purpose Sub-Committee whose
role would be to advise on financial, audit and procurement policy,
approve the annual budget and work program, evaluate tenders for
contracts over N100,000 and recommend awards of contract, scrutinize the
annual audit reports nd any other matters of a miscellaneous nature.
The composition and schedule of the subcommittees would be set by
BADPEC.
3.        To promote the participation of Local Government and MANR in
SBADP program development, a Project Agricultural Development Advisory
Committee (PADAC) would be established. It would consist of the Project
Manager, Sole Administrators of the LGAs (or their representatives) in
the project area, and Heads of Technical Department in MANR and SBADP.
PADAC would advise on the development program, particularly the siting
of wells, roads, setting priorities and avoiding duplication of
services.
Project Management
4.        Key features of the project management structure relate to the
need to provide cost-effective services, close coordination with LGAs in
providing roads and water, and adequate manpower development for the
planning and implementation of statewide rural development and eventual
amalgamation with BOADAP. At the apex of the project operational
management structure would be the SBADP Management Unit (SBADPMU),
headed by a Project Manager and having as members the heads of the seven
project divisions; Chief Agronomist; Chief Engineer, Chief
Administrative Officer; Financial Controller; Principal Commercial
Officer; Senior Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Officer; and the
Senior Training Officer. SBADPMU would be responsible to BADPEC for
establishing and operating SBADP in accordance with BADPEC policy
directives, and in accordance with the conditions of Project and
Subsidiary Loan Agreements. In doing so, it would take over all the
existing crop production functions of MANR with the exception of the
tractor hire unit (THIJ) (Annex 3-2). The establishment of SBADPMU would
be a condition for loan effectiveness.
5.        SBADPMU would have the following seven divisions:
(a) Technical Services. Extension services, investigation
work, seed multiplication, and fadama development;
(b) Commercial Services. Farm inputs distributiou;
(c) Engineering Services. Road, water supply and building
construction and mechanical services;
(d) Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation.
(e) Manpower Development and Training. Responsible for
training project staff and communities within the



ANNEX 3-10
-  80  -                              Page 3 of 6
project area, and assisting management iwith personnel
matters;
(f)  Project Management and Administration.  Personnel
administration, office services, procurement and general
matters, internal auditing; and
(g) Finance. Budget preparation, accounting, payroll,
financial control system, pre-audit of expenditures and
disbursement applications.
Staffing and Technical Assistance
6.        SBADPMU would employ about 500 staff of which about 440 are
already state employees. Additional staff, mainly for the engineering
division, would be employed for the project implementation period only.
SBADPMU would select its agricultural staff requirements from existing
MANR and LGA staff, under procedures successfully developed by FACU
under the Bank-supported Kaduna ADP and now to be implemented under the
recently negotiated seven state Multi-State ADP. To assist in project
implementation, the project would provide about 25 man-years of
internationally recruited staff including the (i) Project Manager; (ii)
Financial Controller; (iii) Chief Agronomist; (iv) Chief Engineer; (v)
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Officer; and (vi) Roads Engineer.
The appointment of the first four would be a condition of Board
presentation. The project manager and chief engineer posts would be
filled through international recruitment for 5 years, the road engineer
for 3 years, and the remainder for 4 years. Upon completion of their
term, they would be replaced whenever possible by the promotion of
existing project staff. In addition, the project would finance
short-term consultant services about 20 man-months, to provide
specialized skills for the following:
(a) an assessment of the potential irrigable area using
shallow tubewells together with an estimation of their
capacity. Such work would only be commissioned after a
review of the large body of existing hydrological surveys
had revealed critical gaps of knowledge; and
(b) such other agriculturally related studies as BSG may
consider necessary (with FMG and Bank approvals).
Project Headquarters
7.        Although Maiduguri, the state capital is some 80 km north of
the project area, the project headquartsrs would be sited there for the
following reasons (i) although initially BSADP and BOADP would be
Implemented under separate management units, these units would ie
progressively merged.    Siting BSADP headquarters would facilitate
cooperation with BOADAP during the pre-merger period, and would be the
optimum location for a statewide operation; and (ii) offices, workshops,



ANNEX 3-10
-  81 -                           Page 4 of 6
houses, electricity and water are already available in Maiduguri and
would require relatively small incremental cost, while all of these
would have to be constructed at any of the available sites within the
project area. Costs would be extremely high and would place an
unacceptable burden on the state budget.
8.        In addition to the project headquarters in Maiduguri, there
would be two zonal offices, one at Bama serving the eastern part of the
project area and a second at Biu covering the southern and western
parts.
Role of Federal Institutions
Three federal institutions would provide implementation
assistance to project start-up and with carrying out individual
components:
(a) Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) would be
responsible for providing assistance with the project
start-up, implementation and supervision for FMG.
Assistance to project start-up would be provided through
a Project Facilitation Team (PFT) comprising FACU staff
and, if necessary, consultants, following a pattern
already successfully tested under the Bank-supported
Kaduna ADP and Multi-State ADP. The PFT would be set up
jointly with BSG officials who would act as counterparts
to FACU team members. The PFT would assist in the
establishment of a management unit and the development of
first year's work program. It would set up personnel,
financial and other administrative systems;
(b) Federal Agricultural Project Monitoring Evaluating and
Planning Unit (APMEPU) would provide technical assistance
for project monitoring and evaluation and would oversee
ex-post evaluation; and
(c) Agricultural and Rural Development Management Training
Institute (ARMTI) would provide services and support to
the project training program.
WAPAB
February 1986



- 82 -                                   ANNEX 3-10
Page 5 of 6
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bomo Skle
Enging Soft=
O%gftoflon
-~~~ t-+
cMe chu &Vknmut
|uu Ibod l                       j                                        Mcavd l dl  
&              &       Ur*            Rufon &            1 I
exRood mvbg      ~                              ISbItOt o                     up
R=W Pbm*V    PMPD-NW                Sup~~~|  d W   d                    |kvrfw
_   Codi4ssn     _      d S              _ Fand Con                   & MNwaInce
RFmi &lk                                       R     &a                Spamns
ktI?UtP c                Tendh   &               Tub wel                rk Coiwrl
HiUog.A.                                       &ELG lMf   l                     of
Rogta'not                                  Fonbd Carumjcglon         Ei SWAMc 
T,dlng Plojactl                                Tiomk"Mm               Prajact & LGA
I LG I~~~~,,onn.I  Moinlanono.  Psionnal ~     ~      Peronro
VWa Boj*-k3011i1
WAPAB
February 1986



-83-                                        ANNEX 3-10
Page 6 of 6
cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
E                                          S       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IJ  I
Iii  I    I__________  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



- 84 -                              ANNEX 3-11
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        Considerable monitoring and evaluation experience has been
acquired on the ADPs in Nigeria and lessons from this have shaped the Borno
ADP proposals. Two factors merit special attention.
2.        The fi:st concerns the allocation of resources between the two
functions. Past efforts mainly supported evaluation. The result has been
a serious shortage of continuously generated information to assist
management in decision-making. Under the proposed project, the Federal
Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) would assist the Project Manager to
ensure that satisfactory arrangements are made for monitoring key project
activities, and that a satisfactory management information system is
developed.
3.        The second concerns the aims of the evaluation section.  As a
result of past project objectives being set in global terms (project wide
increases in output) efforts have been made to assess overall areas and
production figures for key crops at various points in the project life.
This has proved difficult to achieve, not only because of problems of
supervision and measurement but also because variations due to non project
factors (rainfall and prices) tend to be much greater than those resulting
from project interventions. Targets for SBADP have been set in terms of
the uptake of individual inputs and benefits assessed on the basis of their
expected impact. The monitoring process would record uptake, while
evaluation which would be advised by the Agricultural Project Monitoring
and Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU) would focus on intensive, clear
cut studies to determine the actual results of input use (e.g. the saving
of stored cowpeas by the use of chemicals, the effect on yield of
insecticidal sprays, the incremental output resulting from the use of a
pump). These arrangements would provide a more clearly defined and easily
supervised work program than one which attempted to assess changes in
overall productivity.
4.        From its inception the M and E unit attached to SBADP management
would work together with the corresponding staff in Borno Accelerated
Development Area Program (BOADAP) with a clear mandate to develop a single
service with shared staff and facilities as soon as is practicable.
5.        Further details are provided in Working Paper No. 4.
February 1986



NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bomo State
Prolect Implementatlon Schodule
PI*C1 cIYw      Pft"WooI             4               2                3              4                5                               7
190W          FWM              YV7             WAu               Fs             P190             P191            Fm              FV3
19l5/Il         19"/67          191_7/1U  _ _ 11 l              1911_/90         19909 _         4919/92         1W/39 _
O_ __ _        23    T 11234  * 2 3 4 1  2 3  4                                          1 2 3   4 1 2 3 4   2 3  A 1 2  3 4
1.11
12 Soad PiewonkiIon0
1.3 Ellect*aerisu                                                                                                                                                               M
'1.4 C4lpgl     g Datei 31.
'15 Chalki Date                                                                                                                                  A* iv31 192
2. Fnidl.ecI  wwa-
2.1 fcOAppokVmnInn
P,oIet MonS
IhKu,ckil Contvoet 
2.2 Wark Ptogiam Submvted to
2.3 Reof
Qim1a4y                                            So 0                          0    OS        550               CS4
Vehicl EQprmwntS Pkg
2.5 CMWadwk
oew go
2.6 Raods km615
2.7 Rural Mof(M)                                                                                    MNI
R Va Wei~ (POfld)                                                1                01                                        
WAPAB                                                                                                                                                             o-316



_ 86 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Procurement Procedures
The following procurement procedures are currently followed by
the Ministry of Agriculture and National Resources (MANR), Borno State:
(a) Items of Value up to N3,000
The officer controlling the vote (OCV) (Chief Agricultural
Officer, Chief Veterinary Officer, Chief Produce Officer,
Chief Livestock Officer and Chief Irrigation Engineer) may
issue Local Purchase Orders, of value up to N3,000, to the
lowest bidder from a minimum of three written bids solicited
through "local shopping." For items up to N500, the minimum
of three bids does not apply and OCV can purchase directly.
For emergency purchases without competitive bidding, the
limit is N1,000.
(b)  Items of Value Above N3,000 and up to 150,000
OCV as head of the division is responsible for preparing
tender specifications and cost estimates. This has to be
approved by the Permanent Secretary of MANR and in turn by
the Ministry's Tenders Board (MTB). Upon approval, the
Secretary to the MTB assumes responsibility for calling of
bids. Bids are solicited through the local media and
notices displayed prominently in the MANR premises. The
bidding period is usually flexible depending on the urgency
and complexity of the requirements. All bids are deposited
in a sealed tender box. In the presence of members of the
Tenders Board, the Chairman of the Tenders Board declares
closing of bids at the appointed time. The box is then
opened and for less complex items the award is made to the
lowest bidder after checking for compliance with
specifications. For more complex items, the Tenders Board
calls for an evaluation report from the originating division
to determine the lowest evaluated bid for the Board's
approval. After Board approval, the Secretary issues a
Letter of Acceptance which is signed by the Chairman, one
member and the Secretary. A record is maintained of all
meetings of the Tenders Board.
The MANR Tenders Board is chaired by the Permanent Secretary
and consists of Heads of Divisions/Departments in the
Ministry. The Secretary is from the Administrative



ANNEX 3-13
- 87 -                             Page 2 of 2
Division. If the purchase is for an item for which the MANR
does not have its own in-house expertise, then a
representative from a relevant government
ministry/department is co-opted into the Tenders Board.
(c)  Items of Value Above N50,000
Purchase of items valued at above N50,000 are handled by the
State Tenders Board and procedures remain essentially the
same as for items valued at three to fifty thousand Naira as
obtained in (b) above. The State Tenders Board consists of
a Chairman representing the Ministry of Finance and members
representing relevant government ministries and departments.
The Secretary is from the Ministry of Finance.
The local competitive bidding procedures are generally acceptable
but bid documents for such bidding under the project shculd be modified to
incorporate th following specifications:
(a) the criteria for evaluating bids should be clearly set out
and should state that award would be made to the lowest
evaluated bidder;
(b) bids should be accompanied by a bid security, or bid bond;
(c) all bids should be opened in public and bidders'
representatives allowed to attend; and
{d) successful bidders should be required to submit a
performance security on release of their bid security, or
bid bond.
WAPAB
February 1986



NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule by Categories and Years
(US$ Million)
FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90      FY91      FY92     Total
1.  Buildings and Civil Works            -         -       0.8       1.4       1.5      1.1       4.8
2. Plant, Equipment and
Materials                          -        0.3      0.7       1.1       1.2      0.8       4.1.
3.  Vehicles                            0.3       0.5      0.4        -         -        -        1.2
4.  Consultants, International                                                                                           c
Salaries & Training               0.3      0.3       0.5       0.8      0.7       0.4       3.0
5.  Farm Inputs                          -        0.2       1.0      1.4       2.1       1.7      6.4
6.  Operating Costs                      -        0.4      0.4       0.5       0.8      0.9       3.0
7. Federal Irrigation Subsector
Studies                            -       0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5       2.5
Total             0.6       2.2      4.3       5.7      6.8       5.4      25.0
WAPAB
February 1986



-  89  -                        ANNEX 3-14
Table 2
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
(USS Million)
Cumulative Z
Cumulative      of Agricultural
IBRD Fiscal Year                     Cumulative     Disbursement    Disbursement
and Quarter       Disbursement   Disbursement   as Z of Loan          Profile  2/
FY87  3rd Quarter         -               -                 0                0
4th               0.6              0.6
FY88  1st Quarter        0.4             1.0              4.0                1
2nd               0.4              1.4
3rd               0.6              2.0              8.0                5
4th               0.8              2.8
FY89  1st Quarter        0.8             3.6             14.4               12
2nd               0.9              4.5
3rd                1.2             5.7            22.8               20
4th                1.4             7.1
FY90  1st Quarter        1.4             8.5             34.0               29
2nd                1.4             9.9
3rd                1.4            11.3            45.2               39
4th                1.5            12.8
FY91  Ist Quarter        1.5            14.3             57.2               50
2nd                1.6            15.9
3rd                1.9            17.8            71.2               60
4th                1.8            19.6
FY92  1st Quarter        1.6            21.2             84.8               70
2nd                1.5            22.7
3rd                1.2            23.9            95.6                78
4th                1.1            25.0            100
FY93  1st Quarter                                                           86
2nd
3rd                                                                  91
4th
FY94  1st Quarter                                                           95
2nd
3rd                                                                  99
4th
FY95  lst Quarter                                                          100
1/   Loan effectiveness and Closing Date assumed to be July 1, 1986, and
June 30, 1992, respectively.
2/   For Nigerian Agricultural Area Development Projects FY76-85 as per PPD
Office Memo of October 3, 1985.



NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT CHART
4 0-,,
______   IJULATIVE DISBURSEMENT
(WITH DATE OF EFFECTIVENTESS
ASSUMED AS JULY 1, 1986)
20-
18  '..                                 .......  HISTORICAL DISBUP.SEMENT
PROFILE FOR NIGERIAN AGRICUL-
TURAL AREA DEVELOPMENT
PP.OJECTS FY76-85.
pYI        PY2           to PY4                      Py5            py            p             P
FY87      FYI#           FPy FMe                     r"I ro                       FY9           FY9      f
Mont h 7 1    4  7  10  1  4  7 10  1  4  7 10  i  4   7 10  1  4  7 10  1  4   7 10  1  4  7 10  1
CY n6      37             as            89            90            91            92             93            94



- 91 -
ANNEX 3-15
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Special Project Account
1.        The Special Project Account (Account No. 2) would be established
by the Project with a commercial bank. IBRD would make an initial deposit
of $1 million to be used to prefinance goods and services which are
reimbursable under the Loan. The account would be replenished through
disbursement applications which would be supported by (a) a statement of
transactions of the Special Project Account certified by the commercial
bank where the account isi held; (b) a certificate signed by the Project
Manager or the Chief Engineer jointly with the Financial Controller or an
Accountant acceptable to thz Bank confirming that the goods and services
have been supplied as contracted; (c) reconciliation of withdrawals and
deposits with statements of permitted expenditures and IBRD disbursements
certified by the Project Manager and the Financial Controller; and (d)
statement disclosing the quarterly contributions made by FGN and BSG and
credited to the Project Account. Additionally, replenishment will be
conditional to BSG and FGN remaining current with their contributions. In
an instance where a disbursement made from the Account is not acceptable to
the Bank, BSG would be required to refund the corresponding amount of the
disbursement into the Account.
WAPAB
February 1986



- 92 -
ANNEX 3-16
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Auditing and Reporting
1.        SBADP and FACU on behalf of FGN would keep financial records in
accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect their operations and
financial positions, and would have the accounts including the special
account and statement of expenditure audited annually by a firm of
independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audited accounts
and the auditor's report, including a statement as to whether or not Bank
funds had been used for their intended purpose, would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
2.        SBADP and FACU would prepare annual budgets and a work program
based on appraisal estimates, amended where necessary to reflect changes in
costs and project development policies. With the assistance of FACU, a
budget format would be introduced in the first project year, which would
adequately portray project activities, unit costs, benefits, and
productivity and form the basis of a proper management information and
accounting system. Agriculture and infrastructure components would be
clearly separated. At the time the annual work program and budget are
prepared, SBADP and FACU (for the Federal components) would also prepare a
procurement program for the coming year, giving items and quantities
required, sources of funds. timing and procurement methods (whether ICB or
other). This program would be submitted along with the annual budget to
FDARD and FDWR (for irrigation studies only) for approval, and to the Bank
for information. The state ADPs and FACU would prepare quarterly cash flow
statements, which would be submitted to FDARD, FDWR (for irrigation studies
only) and the Bank, and would operate on the basis of these statements. On
the basis of the approved budgets and procurement program, the Federal and
the Borno State governments would make budgetary allocations and thereafter
would release the necessary funds quarterly in advance.
3.        SBADP and FACU would submit quarterly reports to FDARD, FDWR (for
irrigation studies) and the Bank showing actual and budgeted expenditures,
statements of progress achieved and objectives for the forthcoming quarter
by each project component. The quarterly reports would contain siulmaries
of expenditures and use of funds to date. After completion of the project,
SBADP and FACU would prepare a project completion report analyzing the
implementation of the project and its impact in relation to its objectives,
and would submit them to the Bank within six months of the closing date.
WAPAB
February 1986



- 93 -
ANNEX 3-17
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated BSG Debt Service
This annex provides a tentative Borno State Government (BSG) debt
service schedule as emanating from the Bank loan to finance project
activities in southern Borno. In calculating these figures, it was assumed
that: (i) disbursement schedule would be implemented as planned (Annex
3-14); (ii) interest rate is 8.5Z throughout the loan period (20 years);
and (iii) the loan amount to finance the southern Borno component is
US$22.5 un payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace period. It
should be noted that should one or more of these assumptions not
materialize the debt service payments would be different.
BSG Debt Service
(US$ '000)
FY        Principal           Charges              Total
87           -                   193                 193
88           -                   281                 281
89           -                   494                 494
90           -                   843                 843
91           -                 1,288               1,288
92         1,500               1,732               3,232
93         1,500               1,690               3,190
94         1,500               1,562               3,062
95         1,500               1,434               2,934
96         1,500               1,307               2,807
97         1,500               1,180               2,680
98         1,500               1,052               2,552
99         1,500                 924               2,424
00         1,500                 796               2,296
01         1,500                 670               2,170
02         1,500                 542               2,042
03         1,500                 414               1,914
04         1,500                 287               1,787
05         1,500                 160               1,660
06         1,500                  32               1,532
Total     22,500              16,881              39,381
WAPAB
February 1986



- 94 -
ANNEX 3-18
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic
Farmgate Price for Commodities
(Constant 1985 N/ton)
Financial             Economic
A.  Coarse Grains 1/                     1986     1990        1986    1990/95
Cost per ton (f.o.b. US)  $ 2/        105      111         105      111
Freight and insurance to
Nigerian ports           $          45        45          45       45
C.I.F. Nigerian ports   $          150       156         150      156
C.I.F. Nigerian ports   N          150       156         150      156
Port handling and clearance            18       18           6        6 3/
Transport to retail market             75       75          29       29 4/
Reference market price         243       249         185      191
Less: Local transport costs            15       15           6        6
Primary marketing costs         24        24          8         8
Add: Value of stalks                   60       60          20       20
2654     270         191      197
==                           =c *
B. Others
Average market price in Nigeria:
Cowpea per ton           N         1,100                 363 3/
Vegetables per ton       N          500                  165 3/
1/   Sorghum, millet and maize.
2/   only maize prices are used since there is little international trade
in sorghum and millet and, besides, Nigeria would normally import
maize to make up shortfalls in local production of sorghum and millet.
3/   SCF = .33.
4/   TCF = .39.
WAPAB
February 1986



- 95 -
ANNE 3-19
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA
SOUTHERN BORNO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Economic Pate of Return
1.        The Project's ERR is about 15.8% and its present value discounted
at 10%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Nigeria, is N3.2 mrn.
Only incremental costs and incremental benefits have been taken into
account over a 25-year project life including a five-year investment
period. Non-incremental costs mainly salaries and overheads of existing
staff have not been included in the calculation of the ERR on the
assumption that such staff will continue to be employed by BSG even without
the project. If the cost of all existing staff during the project period
is included in the cost stream the ERR falls to 12%. For an alternative
7-year investment period based on the historical disbursement profile for
similar projects in Nigeria, the ERR is 13Z.
2.        Also not included in the costs are the cost of agriculture
investigations and improved water supplies. The agricultural
investigations involve (1) surveys of farmers to identify constraints to
production increases for developing researcb programs, and (2) studies on
fadama irrigation systems, equipment and design. The benefits of these
studies are expected to be derived at a later phase and are thus not taken
into account in the incremental production assumed in the ERR calculation.
In the case of rural water supplies it is difficult to accurately quantify
the benefits as, particularly, most of which are qualitative and therefore
both the cost and benefits are not included in the ERR calculation.
3.        Only 75% of the road construction/improvement and incremental
maintenance costs are taken up in the cost stream, as a 1984 FACU study
undertaken of feeder roads in Anambra State has shown that 50% of benefits
accrue outside the farmgate (the point at which the ERPR is calculated),
from savings in transport, marketing, and vehicle operating costs. 1/ In
this instance, and in view of the lower road standards and the expected
reduction in the unit cost of transportation being only 25Z, 75% of the
road costs have been included.
1/   The Nigeria Multi-State Phased ADP (Green Cover, June 12, 1985) shows
only 50Z of the feeder road costs in the economic cost stream on the
basis of this study.



ANNEX 3-19
-  96  -                                Page 2 of 4
4.        The costs of agricultural inputs and their distribution and 757
of the incremental road/access maintenance costs are taken up in the cost
stream for the whole 25-year project life. However, the incremental staff
costs are taken for the 5-year project period only for two reasons; first,
staff would either be retrenched (mainly engineering staff) or applied to
tasks aimed at developing additional benefits either through new
initiatives or from different farmers; and second, farmers who had adopted
new technology under the project would continue to apply it without further
extension/promotion effort.
5.        Farm inputs have been taken at the full unsubsidized economic
costs. Taxes which are a transfer payment are excluded from the economic
costs. All costs were converted to border naira using the SCF of 0.33 to
allow for distortion of local costs resulting from imposition of duties,
quotas and similar imposts. On-farm labor was costed at N1.65 per day,
i.e., N5 multiplied by a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.33.
6.        Project benefits include the value of incremental production
(Annex 3-1), largely derived from better and more extensive use of farm
inputs, particularly water pumps for fadama vegetables and herbicides on
maize and cowpeas. Pumps for vegetable production in irrigated fadama
lands account for almost 45% of the benefits. Whilst it is recognized that
the trend of increasing vegetable production in northern Nigeria may call
for more competitive marketing, it is believed that the existence of a
tomato juice extraction plant in the vicinity of the project and better
accessibility to the southeastern urban complexes of Nigeria would provide
the project with a competitive advantage. A 25% reduction in the fadama
benefits because of lower production or lower prices or from both would
mean about a 11% reduction in total benefits and the ERR falling to about
12%.
7.        All incremental production is priced at border farmgate prices
(Annex 3-16) which are derived from (a) parity of internationally-traded
goods and their immediate substitutes; and (b) from domestic retail prices
for non-traded output multiplied by a consumption factor of 0.33. All
calculations are based on 1985 constant dollars converted at Ni = US$1.
Sensitivity
8.        Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to evaluate the possible
effect of various unpredictable factors on ERR. In summary, the analysis
is as follows:
ERR %
20% drop in benefits                       8.5
20% increase in costs                      9.8
1 year lag in benefits                    12.0
3 year lag in benefits                     8.1
Benefits down 10%, costs up 10%            9.2
Benefits down 20%, costs up 10%            5.3
Benefits down 20Z, costs up 20%             2.2
WAPAB
Febr;xary 1986



- 97 -                                      ANNEX 3-19
Page 3 of 4
NIM
sOUUU    M   A6 RIOtLTIL IEWLoPIT FRO:CT
ECIC RATE WF RETm
1      2       3      4       5    6-9  10-25
mUM  (FM  FERTIUZER  M LAW  COSTS)
amC                                             -   26.0   62.0  140.0  304.0  304.0  34.0
FTMLIE                                          -    9.0   28.0   71.0  197.0  197.0   71.*
UIUrED FERTILIZEt USE                           -   21.0   31.0   60.0  137.0  137.0  137.0
MUED COIPEAS                                  1.0   72.0  4l.o  295.0  442.0  442.0  442.
IERSICIUE                                     S.O   22.0   4.0   86.0  134.0  134.0  134.0
OtW S-O                                       7.0   47.0  117.0  243.0  360.0  360.0  30.0
on 6ESSM                                   -   38.0   48.0   54.0   60.0   60.0    0.0
OTNEa HEIOIALS                                  -   61.0   74.0   67.0   60.0   60.0   60.0
FWMl ICELPEWNT                                  -   84.0  324.0  791.0  1180.0  1378.0 13710
TOTAL EEmITs                                 13.0  380.0  868.0 1007.0 2874.0 3072.0 2906.0
E =M=w -- S z- ---
COSTS
P!LECT  KIWGEJET                            294.3  193.5  16546  115.7  115.7         -       -
CERCI3AL SERVICES (V/D FERTILIZER)          218.8  709.6  902.7 12B.0 1481.6 1489.0 1489.0
uNN:R  ,lELJ1NEJT MID TLRUISN               230.6  192.5  107.5  107.5  1075*         -       -
FLAIIINJ.UNTORINT MID EVALUATION            208.0  175.4  109.9   52.6   52.6         -       -
FBNANCE                                     117.2  148.0   83.8   84.9   26.4         -       -
IECPIIDCAL SERVICES                         246.5  248.0  168.2   89.9   8.9          -       -
ENS.SUCS. - WMUF ENS. OFFICE                 51.8   26.4   26.4   26.4   26.4         -       -
EiN.sUCS. -   C l TRAC        2/             54.5   72.0   89.0   74.4   55.0         -       -
ENIG.SM S. - FADO AMESS5_1                 1105.1  263.8  267.5  224.6  227.0         -      -
EUCS.UE  - ROAD JIUl ICE 2                      -  133.1   32.0   32.0   32.0   17.0    3.0
EJG.SVCS. - BUILDISS     2                   50.6   11.6    8.8    8.8    6.5         -       -
EiN.SVCS. - IMCM. W        2/               175.2   47.3   55.7   55.7   53.6                 -
TTAL COS                                   2752.6 2.2 2017.1  2080.5  2274.2  1506.0 1492.0
=                    =_   =_ =am
1/ 75% of 50Z of full economic cost apportioned to roads.
2/ 75%  of full economic cost
MET DEEITS
MET  EFITS                                -2739.6 -1841.2 -1149.1  -m.5  5.8  1566.0  1454.0
Ital Rste of Retrn o Ret Strom
---------        r n
NM0                   15.7HZ



- 98 -                                  ANNEX 3-19
Page 4 of 4
rrfIF am u Kr S    AT I su    miE I IU
ERrDT     up 1oz     u 20Z      u5r       NE 10      _  2OZ   FM 359   LAS I YEM LAS 2 TEARS LAC 3I EM
CBTO            3,216.7    5,198.5    7,180.4   13,125.8    1,234.9     -746.9   -6.692.3    1,415.1      -222.7  -1IP 1.7
It l2z         1*556.6    353894    5S520S2   11.465.6    -425.2   -2.407.0   -8.352.4        -245.0   -1892.9   -3.371.3
GP 20Z          -103.5    1,878.3    3,860.1    9,805.5   -2.093   -4.067.1  -10.012.5   -1,905.2   -3,543.0   -54=32.
up SOZ        -50963.9   -3#102.1   -1,120.3    4.823.1   -7.065.7   -9.047.5  -149m2.9   -64895.5   -0B523.4  -1412A4
Ill  ioz       49876.9    6,859.7    8,840.5   14M7M59    2,895.1        913.3   -5032.1    3.075.2    1.437.4       -51.6
III 20Z        6,537.0    8,518*8   105400.6   16,446.0    450.2       2,573.4   -3#372.0    4,735.4    3.097.5   1I,4896
Il 5OZ         119517.4   13,499.2   15491*0   21.426.4    9tW5.6    7553*8    1,608.4    90715.8    8.077.9    6.UUJ
LAS 1 YEAR           -          -          -           -          -          -          -    2924.3    1#286*5       -22.5
LAB 2 YEARS                                                                                        -    2.d55    1*1695
LAB 3 TEARS          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -           -    2,4t6.
IlETNE. RATES OF RETWM  OF NET STREEtS
WlT       UP ioz     UP ZK      UP SOl   DO  IOZ   OM20    NWIOZ LAS IEAR LA 2 TERS LI 3 WEARS
a1m             15.779      18.987     22.024     30.455     12.329      8.498       MOE       12.054      9.724      Cbt27
U 1O1           12.S55      15.779     18.703     26.727      9.233      5.308       NEW        9.661      7.776      6.495
UP 20Z           9.831      12.95      15.779     3.492       6.355      2.186        OWE       7.469      M.M96      4.9m
UR 50K           2.186      5.593       8.499     15.779     -2.250    -10.258       NOE        1.554      1.237     1t013
N    101        19.332     22.680      25.877     34.827     15.779     11.926      -6.681     14.724     11.981      *.940
NE 202          23.492     27.044      30.455     40.061     19.760     15.779      -0.400     17.771     14.315     U.16
lIE 5OZ         43.098     47.818      52.390     65.384     39.203     33.100      15.779     31.128     24.597     20.400
LI I TME             -                     -           -                     -          -      15.779     12.054      9.724
US4 2 YEARS                      -         -           -          -          -          -          -      15.779     12.054
LATEARS              -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -           -     15.779
SUITCHINB VWUES AT 10 
APPRAISAL   SuMTCINGm   PERCENTAGE
STA                 VALUE       VALUE       cANIE
IT01T            t9,818.04   16,601.30      -16.23Z
CRIC             16,601.30   19,818.04       19.381
Net Preser.t Value at OCM IZ = 39216.7
Internal Rate ar Returnm = 1.8
Cowur  Euivalent Rat. of Return = 12.4U
PuerLt Value of Streams at      10.002
CRITT             16,401.30
IRmTm             19#818.04
mTmT               3,216.75



e         ,                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBllD 19065SR3
R                                                                  NIGERIA
N     i     G       E      R                                 R"C                                           j         ,,     ISRD ASSISTED
w  <-A   z             AGRICULTURAt PROJECTS
_~~~~~~~ T\                                                                                                                                                             E.,
"I       FIA~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                           T- poQAIa._o'o,I
-                  A-          .'           I         "2'~82.J            e.,.              O'U.,2ET2_
A,52(2esA,l.AU.15AA=
G    oTO /04Th    G .               A  A  N  A          '02.2                                                                                          L _ _ I(L .,.............*25,.G_II_d e .,
( ..', ,    .0(1822 AAAND .9R
U               0,E N2 2.82 19U



- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBR iJ6447f
- '   \    M '\ 4 .g , / ~ G  A T AL IBEiRU                     1A                                                  i
NA NE6R-          F L   t FNE                                         I .                      I           r                                      - -
/ ACI         C K A G                                                            E R O
_ t                                                                                       w 0 .  /  K   N         _
IL V  -.                 /                 - - -   -       ArSA~r c OCA DEVELOMEN PECT
0  A~ ~~~~ 
A     A~~~~~~  0    A ~ &
I                             X~~**-EflO
ch~~~~~~~.kC.'
u  -A                                                                         R-~~~~~~~~~~~~~w z4hNIEI
B A U C H I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~BRN  Tr
A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ kb5C   AEco                                          PcecOmmE..,ra
HA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~               
~~ N    /sc~~~GN- OL
S TAT E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



