E-552
INDIA
GUJARAT EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
March 11, 2002
Submitted to
The World Bank
70, Lodi Estate
New Delhi - 1 10003
India
Submitted by
The Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority
Block No. 11, 5th floor, Udyog Bhavan,
Gandhinagar - 382017, Gujarat, INDIA



INDIA
GUJARAT EMREGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Report
March 11, 2002
CONTENTS
1    THE EARTHQUAKE, DAMAGE ASSESSMENT AND
PROPOSED WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
1.1  The Earthquake Damage Assessment                     1
1.2  World Bank Assistance                                3
1.3  Medium Term Phase: Project Objectives and            4
Components
1.3.1  Project Objectives and Development            4
Outcomes
1.3.2 Project Components and Estimated Costs
(a) Permanent Housing Reconstruction           4
(b) Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure    5
(c) Community Participation                    5
(d) Disaster Management                        5
(e) Project Management                         6
2    RECONSTRUCTION WORK TO DATE, AND EMERGING
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ISSUES
2.1  Introduction                                         7
2.2  Housing Component and Related Issues                 7
2.2.1  Rubble and Debris Removal                     7
2.2.2  Temporary Shelter (Short Term and Long        9
Term)
2.2.3  Permanent Relocation sites                    9
2.3   Education Component                                 10
2.4  Roads and Bridges Component                          10
2.5  Public Buildings Component                           10
2.5.1  Heritage Buildings and Cultural Property      I 1
2.6  Dam Safety and Irrigation Component                  12
2.7  Social Development Aspects                           15
2.8  Community Participation                              16
56



3     ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
3.1  Environmental Impacts of the Earthquake         17
3.2   Environmental Management Framework             17
3.3   GEERP Environmental and Social Analysis and    18
Environmental Management Plan
3.4   Reference to the World Bank's Policy on Cultural
Property and Dams & Dam Safety
3.4.1  Water Tanks, Irrigation Works and Bank's  27
Policy on Safety of Dams
3.4.2  Cultural Property and Heritage Sites    28
4     SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
4.1   The Social Assessment Process                  29
4.2   Social Safeguard in the Reconstruction Process  30
4.2.1   Involuntary Resettlement               30
a) Resettlement ("Relocation") of      30
Earthquake Affected Persons
b) Secondary Displacement              31
4.2.2    Indigenous People                     32
5     DISCLOSURE                                     38
References                                     38
ANNEXURES
A.1   Resolution of GoG Prescribing the Assistance for  39
Removing the Debris of Kucha/Pucca Buildings
Collapsed due to the Earthquake
A.2   Extract from Summary Resettlement Plan - Gujarat  41
State Highways Project
A.3   Brief Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan (IPDP)  75
for GEERP
A.4   Land Acquisition Assessment Data Sheet         80
A.5   List of Sites Used for Temporary Shelter       81
A.6   Disposal of Rubble and Debris                  82
A.7   List of 20 selected dams                       95



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Environmental and Social Analysis
1.    THE EARTHQUAKE, DAMAGE ASSESSMENT AND PROPOSED WORLD BANK
ASSISTANCE
1.1    The Eartlhquake and Damage Assessmerrt
1.1.1  On January 26, 2001, an earthquake measuring 6.9 on the Richter scale occurred
in western India. The epicenter was located to the north of Bhachau in Kutch district of
Gujarat state and at a distance of about 250 km west of Ahmedabad city. The earthquake
caused major loss of life, injury and damage to property and infrastructure. The official
death toll stands at 13,805 and about 167,000 people were injured. About 1.2 million
homes were damaged or destroyed.   Social services were also severely hit, with
destruction or damage to over 2,000 health structures and about 12,000 schools. Civil
administration was greatly affected, with office buildings and records destroyed, and staff
either killed or suffered the loss of family members. Other infrastructure was also
severely damaged, including small and medium earthen dams (water tanks) providing
drinking water and irrigation to local communities, urban and rural water supply systems,
public buildings, municipal infrastructure, roads, power and telecommunications.
Thousands of small and cottage based industries and agricultural assets were also
destroyed or damaged. Twenty-one out of twenty-five districts in Gujarat were affected.
1.1.2 The district of Kutch was by far the most severely damaged, with an average of
70 %   of buildings destroyed/damaged.  Other seriously affected districts include
Ahmedabad, Patan, Jamnagar, Rajkot and Surendranagar. These six districts account for
over 95% of the deaths caused by the earthquake. Towns such as Bhachau and Rapar in
Kutch suffered nearly 100% damage. Towns and villages in the affected areas were
reduced to piles of concrete and rubble, and hundreds of thousands of livelihoods were
destroyed.
1.1.3  The normal life of people in the  quake-hit areas was seriously affected by the
large number of human deaths and injuries. In addition to the immediate sufferings
caused, a large number of families were torn by the death or serious disability of a
member. This would have long-term consequences on the wellbeing of other members,
particularly widows (especially young women), single parent children, orphans, and the
elderly.
1.1.4 Other social impacts of the earthquake include deep insecurity among those who
lost assets. A total of 233,660 houses were destroyed by the earthquake and another
971,538 were damaged. The sources of livelihoods of many families have been
disrupted, particularly among those residing in the worst affected towns and villages.
About 19,000 handicraft artisans, the backbone of the Kutch district's economy, were one
of the most severely affected groups. In addition, several thousand salt farmers have
suffered due to collapse of their brine wells and destruction of salt fields containing the
salt of up to two years. Many salt refineries were also damaged, which hampered the
export of salt from the region. Kutch alone accounts for 80% of India's salt production,
and 80% of its facilities suffered damages. Another important source of livelihood in
Kutch is cattle - about 20,000 cattle perished.
I



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis            March 11, 2002
2~~~AD 
0   EPICE.NTRE
Date of occirrence :26/01/2001
MAagnitude: 6.9 Richter scale
Lat: 23.40 N Long: 70.28 E
Focus: 25 KM Deep
C] SevaeElaTfcw TakMkw
C  STAT E TAW KA
flr trpaaIs n:t'± aW'tt e
ISO SESISMIC MAP OF THE EARTHQUAKE IN GUJART
2



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
1.1.5 The economic impact of the earthquake was significant and the loss of assets was
massive. Restoration of assets to standards resistant to earthquake and other hazards such
as cyclones, will amount to about US$1.8 billion. The cost of restoration of private
assets, such as housing and the asset-base in agriculture, industry, and services and the
cost of restoring public sector assets are almost equal. In contrast to physical damages,
output losses are smaller ranging in aggregate between US$490-660 million, or 2-3
percent of Gujarat's gross state domestic product (GSDP) over the next three years.
1.2    World Bank Assistance
1.2.1 Soon after the earthquake, the Governments of India (GOI) and the Government
of Gujarat (GOG) requested the World Bank's assistance to help address the
unprecedented level of destruction and to assist in the reconstruction effort. Responding
to the request, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) undertook a
review of the preliminary damage assessment to evolve an efficient and cost effective
strategy to rebuild the damaged infrastructure and levels of services, provide livelihood to
a large number of very vulnerable households in a sustainable way, and build an adequate
disaster management capacity. A phased implementation of the strategy was evolved:
*  first, an Immediate Phase (also referred to as Phase I), to respond in the short term
to the immediate housing reconstruction needs, and laying the groundwork for
establishing a sustainable disaster management capacity in the state;
*  second, a Medium Term Phase (also referred to as Phase II), to address the
medium term needs of reconstructing public infrastructure, assist in social capital
restoration and take the next step in establishing disaster management capability,
by building a professional emergency preparedness and response system; to be
implemented over three years; and
*  third, a Long Term Phase (also referred to as Phase III), which will deal with the
long term institutionalization of comprehensive disaster management planning as
part of Gujarat's overall development process, as a 5-year long operation; it will
address hazard mitigation, knowledge management and risk transfer.
1.2.2 Implementation of the Immediate Phase began in March 2001, shortly after the
Bank's approval of the reallocation of some US$400 million from 11 credits and one
loan. Funds from this initial allocation have been used for:
* housing reconstruction;
* education: reconstruction of facilities
*  dam safety and irrigation: emergency repairs to a small number of important
water tanks;
*  roads and bridges: emergency maintenance work on roads (about 170 km) and
bridges;
* public buildings;
* management and support structure.
3



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
1.2.3 Other components, such as health, urban infrastructure, power, rural water supply,
industries, and a large reconstruction program in the education sector were undertaken by
other agencies, namely the Asian Development Bank, European Commission,
Governnent of Netherlands, other bilaterals and a large number of NGOs.
Implementation of the Immediate Phase programs is ongoing, and is expected to be
substantially completed in December 2002.
The proposed Medium Term Phase, which is described below in some detail, will be
largely a continuation of the Immediate Phase programs with the addition of one new
subcomponent.
* retrofitting of undamaged public buildings
This Environmental and Social Analysis (ESA) report deals with the environmental and
social aspects of the proposed Medium Term Phase project i.e. the Gujarat EmergenLcy
Earthquake Reconstruction Project (GEERP).
1.3   Medium Term Phase: Project Objectives and Components
1.3.1 Project Objectives and Development Outcomes
The proposed Project's objectives are: (a) promoting sustainable recovery in the disaster-
affected areas, and (b) laying the foundations for sustainable disaster management
capacity in Gujarat. The following development outcomes are anticipated to be achieved
through the proposed assistance: first, reduced vulnerability and subsequent saving of
lives and property in future disasters through building houses and infrastructure to
disaster-resistant standards; second, increased community risk awareness of and
preparedness for natural hazards through access to enhanced knowledge of hazards and
disaster reduction techniques; and third, enhanced emergency preparedness and response
capacity of responsible units (such as fire and rescue brigades) leading to saving of lives
and property.
1.3.2  Project Components and Estimated Costs.
The proposed Project's total cost is currently estimated to be about US$503.7 million
including contingencies, of which Bank financing would be about US$442.8 million. A
detailed description of the project components is provided in the Technical Annex of this
document. The Project includes the following components:
A. Permanent Housing Reconstruction (US$197.2 million).
This will finance the implementation of owner-driven housing recovery plan initiated
under the ongoing immediate phase (Phase I) for the partially damaged and  fully
collapsed houses in the affected rural and urban areas. Assistance  will be provided to
repair about 75,000 partially damaged houses and  reconstruct about 135,000 fully
collapsed houses.
4



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
B. Public Infrastructure Reconstruction (US$236.9 million).
This component will provide funding for (i) repairing, strengthening, rehabilitating,
reconstructing and upgrading damaged public buildings, roads  and bridges, dams and
irrigation infrastructure in the earthquake affected  areas (US$201.3 million), (ii)
retrofitting undamaged government  administration buildings and critically important
public buildings such as  schools, hospitals, fire stations, and preparing detailed
engineering  documentation for retrofitting key bridges in seismic zones IV and V
(US$25.7 million), and (iii) constructing buildings and control rooms  necessary to
foster State emergency management as well as set up the Gujarat Institute of Disaster
Management (GIDM) under Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority (GSDMA),
and the Institute for Seismic Research (ISR) (US$9.9 million). This component will also
finance consulting services for  planning and designing vital institutional complexes,
and assuring construction quality for reconstruction activities and for the inventory of
hazardous facilities, determining the types of retrofitting measures for  individual
structural systems, arranging third party expert supervision and  related environmental
management activities.
C. Community Participation (US$12.5 million).
This component aims to ensure the participation of earthquake affected communities,
especially the most vulnerable groups, in planning, deciding on and implementing the
reconstruction program so that they can obtain their due share of benefits, including
information, housing assistance, and access to public infrastructure and services. This
would be achieved through (i) information, communication and education activities; (ii)
establishment of village-level sub-centers to build capacity for earthquake-resistant
construction and to form self-help groups that would monitor the program and be
responsible for disaster preparedness in the future; (iii) strengthening local government
mechanisms to undertake social audit and ensure transparency; (iv) gender sensitization
workshops for all functionaries involved in the communities; (v) community-based
disaster preparedness program charged with identifying risks, vulnerable areas and
people; formulating plans; training in search and rescue, relief, warning, evacuation,
medical assistance teams; establishing local warning systems and emergency response
equipment; village drills, and so on. Large volumes of print and audio-visual materials
would be produced, training courses, workshops, meetings and demonstrations held,
consultants and travel entailed, and community organizations supported financially
(US$6.1 million). Purchase of emergency kits for 2,000 villages, containing essential
warning devices for timely notification and evacuation of people at risk, and provision of
major emergency kits for one hundred clusters of villages would be supported (US$6.4
million).
D. Disaster Management (US$51.1 million).
Given Gujarat's three-phased program for disaster management capacity building, this
component will build on the foundations of awareness raising, education and massive
training provided in Phase I and will establish the necessary building blocks for Phase III,
the projected free-standing disaster management operation. Targeting cyclone, flood,
5



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
earthquake and drought as the main hazards, this component will finance establishing a
professional emergency management program and preparing Phase III.
(i) Emergency management (US$41.3 million) will address both pre-disaster emergency
preparedness and post-disaster emergency response and training. Funds will be provided
for consultancy services and equipment necessary to transform the present system of
isolated action by many entities into a modem, professional state emergency management
system. Activities will be arranged in three main areas: (a) feasibility studies for
strengthening control rooms, state-wide emergency communications system, search and
rescue and fire-fighting equipment, and information technology (US$0.6 million); (b)
institutional  consolidation,  including  institutional  capacity  assessment  and
operationalizing an emergency management system (US$0.5 million); and (c)
strengthening the state emergency management system  including, inter alia, the
communication network (US$11.4 million), control rooms (US$5.6 million), and
essential equipment such as hydraulic platform, hydraulic telescopic crane, emergency
rescue van with equipment, hydraulic rescue tools of the fire and rescue brigades
(US$23.2 million) for search and relief operations;
(ii) Hazard mitigation and risk transfer activities (US$4.4 million) willsupport the
essential studies necessary for designing and readily implementing hazard reduction
activities foreseen for Phase III. These studies will include developing Gujarat-specific
methodologies for institutionalizing and promoting decentralized natural hazard reduction
in the state and exploring mechanisms to transfer risk to the private sector. The
subcomponent will finance developing: (a) digital hazard maps for earthquake, flood,
drought and cyclone; (b) inventories of hazardous buildings in major urban areas and
strategies for retrofitting privately-owned buildings (with special emphasis on multi-story
apartment blocks, business establishments, industrial plants) and publicly-owned lifelines
(e.g., power stations, water reservoirs); (c) regulatory studies on strengthening building
codes and institutionalizing their improved enforcement; (d) procedures for community-
based disaster management planning (process and plans), for the taluka (sub-district), the
district and the state level; and (e) risk transfer and insurance; and
(iii) Development of Disaster Management Institutions (US$5.4 million) will facilitate
the participation of all critical stakeholders in the disaster management process by
establishing GIDM under GSDMA, and ISR. GIDM will bring together leading academic
institutions, private sector, NGOs and government agencies involved in knowledge and
information sharing on the many facets of disaster management, and will support disaster
preven-tion community awareness activities. Under this subcomponent, IT equipment
necessary for maintaining digital maps in GIS-based databases, furniture, vehicles, and
other equipment for the functioning of GSDMA, GIDM and ISR will be purchased.
E. Project Management (US$6 million).
This component will finance GSDMA's incremental operating costs associated with the
implementation of housing, community participation and disaster management. In
addition, it would finance equipment, vehicles and consulting services for training,
quality assurance, monitoring and evaluation, environmental and social assessments, and
audits, among others.
6



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
2.    RECONSTRUCTION WORK TO DATE, AND EMERGING ENVIRONMENTAL AND
SOCIAL ISSUES
2.1   Introduction
The GEERP will benefit from the implementation experience of the Immediate Phase and
the lessons learned. This is also true of the environmental and social aspects, which have
emerged as a direct result of the earthquake, or from the ensuing reconstruction efforts.
As is outlined in greater detail below, the environmental and social implications are now
better understood and can be better addressed through project component
definition/delineation and/or mitigation measures and/or good environmental
management practice.
This section will look at implementation progress to date of the Immediate Phase and list
out the environmental and social issues which must be incorporated into the proposed
GEERP. The discussion below is presented in accordance with the project components
of the Immediate Term project, which includes: i) housing; ii) education; iii) dam safety
and irrigation; iv) public buildings, and; v) roads and bridges.
2.2   Housing Component and Related Issues
As of February 2002, a total of 1,205,198 dwelling units in all categories (i.e., G1-G5'),
both in rural and in urban areas, have been recorded for consideration of compensation.
GOG has disbursed a total of Rs.1180 crores (about US$ 245 million) to 1106,861
beneficiaries (188166 for reconstruction and 918695 for repairs) for housing
rehabilitation. This has enabled the completion (through repair and reconstruction) of a
total of 855,127 dwellings (66,977 reconstructed and 788,150 repaired). The remaining
works are expected to be substantially over by December 2002 except the four towns of
Kutch which may be completed before June 2003. In the reconstruction effort, materials
management issues, including construction waste material disposal and secondary debris
removal continue to be the main environmental issues. Closely related to the housing
reconstruction program is the issue of rubble and debris removal, as discussed below.
Also discussed below are the cases of temporary shelter and permanent relocation sites,
both of which relate to the broader housing component.
2.2.1 Rubble and debris removal
The Govt. has adopted a three-pronged strategy as follows (Copy of Government
Resolution attached as Annexure - 1) for rubble removal in the worst affected areas of
Gujarat:
- The rubble from four towns of Kutch i.e. Anjar, Bhachau, Bhuj and Rapar,
and the Municipal towns of Gandhidham and Morbi was removed by
departments through public tender system since the quantum of work was
heavy.
GI: Cracks up to V2 inch width; G2: Damage up to 10%; G3: Damage up to 25%; G4: Damage
up to 50%; and G5: Completely damaged house.
7



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
- In the villages where scarcity had been declared, rubble removal work was
undertaken as a part of employment generation activity.
- Initially, in some villages people objected to the rubble removal till they could
take out useful materials from that. After giving adequate time to the
beneficiaries in December 2001, Govt. came out with a scheme of removing
rubble in the villages through the Village Civil Works Committee through a
public participatory process.
Because of all the above initiatives, the rubble removal in almost 95 % cases is over in
the entire State.
Primary rubble removal is largely completed in all urban areas that sustained major
damage. An estimated 3.9 million metric tons (MT) of rubble from the four cities in
Kutch were removed. Additionally, 6.91 million MT of rubble were removed from other
towns and villages. Primary rubble and debris removal required allowing free movement
of vehicles and people is largely complete.
Secondary rubble refers to materials and debris that is still lying on people's plots and
materials disposed haphazardly along roads and in fields but which are not a hindrance to
movement of people and vehicles. There were two important aspects to consider here.
First, as housing construction picked up, a significant amount of rubble lying on people's
plots needed disposal and construction waste materials were (and will be) generated and
needed (and will need) proper disposal. In the absence of continued rubble removal
services, these materials could find their way into the streets and alleys and nearby fields
and ditches. Secondly, the continued presence of rubble, a source of visual pollution and
a constant reminder of the earthquake's impact, could undermine the growing success
story of the rebuilding and reconstruction efforts. Secondary rubble and debris removal
is underway, the first round was completed by 3 1st January 2002.
GOG envisaged a community based secondary rubble and debris disposal programme,
particularly in the rural areas. GOG had recently issued a government resolution to clear
all rubble in the villages through the Village Civil Works Committees. The village
communities and the Village Civil Works committees have been provided with technical
assistance, including guidance2 for safe removal and disposal of rubble and debris. Most
of the debris and rubble in rural areas were cleared before 31 st January 2002.
Once the rubble is cleared, what is required is the provision of regular rubble removal
services on a weekly or bi-weekly basis i.e. removing the rubble on a regular basis and
not allowing it to accumulate after initial cleanup operation.  Rubble, which has
accumulated in fields and along roads, is being collected through a 'sweep-up' type
operation once the reconstruction work is approaching closure. While rubble removal is
financed through the Phase I program, follow-up work and monitoring will be required
under the Phase II program.
2     The guidelines for rubble and debris disposal prohibits disposal at any water bodies,
critical habitats of species, parks and sanctuaries and any class of agricultural land.
8



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
Large rubble and waste disposal sites are being properly closed and managed in order to
avoid their proliferation into municipal waste disposal sites or dumps. A number of large
disposal sites have been established to receive rubble and debris. These sites are
particularly large in the urban areas hardest hit by the earthquake, particularly Bhuj,
Bhachau and Anjar. In the first instance, a complete list of these sites is being developed
in order that a formal record of these sites exists. Secondly, these sites are being properly
closed so that they don't become dumping grounds for other less innocuous wastes.
There is also a risk that the sites could attract squatters and develop into slums, although
this risk appears to be small in the low population district of Kutch. Gujarat Ecology
Commission has developed detailed guidelines for closure of rubble dumping sites and
has also suggested other mitigation measures to avoid any adverse ecological impacts.
(Annexure 6)
Related to the above, ongoing construction activities are generating additional waste
materials. Furthermore, a large volume of materials that is proposed for re-use by
villagers may not, in the end, be used, and will require disposal. This scenario implies
that a final clean-up effort will be required at the village level once housing
reconstruction is completed, or is in its final stages. Such an effort is being made and
promoted through a "Village Clean Up" initiative like the one recently launched by the
government to clean up rubble in the villages through village civil works committees
with the full involvement of the communities.
2.2.2 Temporary shelter (Short Term and Long Term).
All the 256,369 families, who needed temporary shelters, were provided with
temporary/intermediate accommodation. Temporary shelter facilities were constructed
with sanitation, drinking water, illumination, and solid waste management facilities on a
systematic basis in urban areas in Kutch district and especially in heavily damaged towns
of Bhuj, Anjar, Bhachau and Rapar. In the other districts, the government distributed
materials for temporary shelters to all G4 and G5 category households in urban areas. In
the rural areas, individual families received building materials such as corrugated iron
sheets and cement for temporary shelter construction. Some of the temporary shelter
sites are still inhabited and will continue to be so for some time. The proper management
of temporary shelter sites require that final clean-up programs be implemented where and
when required. In this regard, site rehabilitation and closure guidelines have been
developed (as part of the EA) along with institutional arrangement for their
implementation within a definite time schedule.
2.2.3 Permanent Relocation sites.
It wasn't clear in the early days of the reconstruction effort how many relocation sites
would be required for permanent relocation of earthquake-affected people. It is now
clear that a few permanent relocation sites will be needed mainly in the urban areas, and
some of these are under construction on government land. These sites will require
appropriate consideration of environmental issues.  Gujarat Urban Development
Company Limited (GUDCO) has developed guidelines for selecting the relocation sites
with all environmental parameters in mind and the sites are being provided with public
infrastructure. In the rural areas the village Pan chayat and NGOs are involved in the
relocation process of villages with detailed guidelines. The new relocation sites are being
9



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
provided with adequate public infrastructures. Some sites are close to urban areas while
others are located in rural areas, often referred to as wastelands. The set-up of these new
sites in "green field" locations will change the immediate nature of the land use patterns
in and around the sites, leading to localized impacts. These impacts are being studied and
mitigated through community participation in the preparation and implementation of
Community Environmental Management Plans (CEMPs), which is looking at issues such
as sanitation, and waste management.
2.3   Education Component
The GOG program for restoration and reconstruction of the education sector is under
implementation.  All education institutions in the earthquake-affected districts are
functioning either in temporary locations or in buildings that were repaired. In view of
donor assistance available, Bank finance in the first phase was used for repairs and
reconstruction of primary schools managed by the Municipal School Board and for the
technical education sub-component. The remaining works are proposed to be taken in
Phase II. There are no specific environmental or social issues other then those related to
good practices for construction management. The reconstruction of the school buildings
is being undertaken by the Roads and Buildings Department and the private contractors.
Technical resource persons, senior consultants and senior engineers of the Gujarat
Council of Primary Education are monitoring and supervising the reconstruction process.
All construction codal provisions, safety standards of the workers and environmental
safety standards are being followed.
2.4   Roads and Bridges Component
The detailed assessment, surveying and engineering of the first phase has been completed
and GOG has already awarded contracts for rehabilitating 185km roads. The contracts for
bridges are being taken up in 8 packages. Tenders for all of them have been invited and
in several cases the award decision has been taken. All roads and bridges works are
proposed to be completed by December 31, 2002. No new roads, bypasses and widening
are envisaged in the project. Implementation of this component is being done in
accordance with the agreed framework of the Gujarat State Highways Project (Ln 4577-
IN - Refer attachment B to Annexure 2). The Ministry of Surface Transport (MOST.)
codal provisions3 are being strictly followed by the executing agencies. The Government
of Gujarat (GOG) has also employed quality assurance consultants for all the contract
packages.
2.5   Public Buildings Component
The repairs and reconstruction of public buildings consists of: (a) demolition of damaged
public buildings and removal of debris; (b) repairs and strengthening of damaged public
buildings, construction of temporary offices and provision of furniture and equipments;
3     The MOST codes refer to the mitigation measures related to loss of top soil, borrowing of
earth, soil erosion, contamination of soil by fuels, lubricants and construction wastes, quarry
operations, contamination of water from fuels/lubricants/construction wastes, generation of dust,
emission from hot mix plants, loss or damage of vegetation, etc.
10



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
and (c) Reconstruction of administrative buildings and residential quarters, restoration
works and retrofitting of buildings, and provision of furniture and equipment, and are
simultaneously being carried out in four distinct categories of buildings: (i) General
administrative buildings by R&B Department, (ii) Police buildings by Police Housing
Development Corporation under Home Department, (iii) Panchayat buildings by R&B
(Panchayat) Department, and (iv) Heritage buildings and monuments by Sports, Youth &
Cultural Activities Department.
The Roads & Buildings Department has taken up a program for repair (minor) of 1796
buildings in 267 contract packages.  A total of 246 contract packages have been
completed and work is in progress for 10 packages. All minor repair works will be
completed by 31st March, 2002. Another 3,972 buildings are to be repaired by the Police
Housing Corporation are in progress. Minor repairs of the Panchayat buildings are in
progress and expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.
An independent consultant is being engaged for quality assurance and technical audit of
all major repairs/retrofitting and reconstruction work (including the management of
safety measures during construction). The maintenance of all the buildings will be
supervised by the staff of the Roads & Buildings Department, stationed at taluka level of
all districts. The codal provisions4 of all environmental safety measures, safety of
buildings & construction activity and the safety of construction workers are being strictly
followed.
2.5.1 Heritage Buildings and Cultural Property.
The Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Policy of the government as far as cultural
monuments are concerned is not to pull them down. The policy is to restore them
wherever possible. For repair and reconstruction "Conservation manual" by Sir John
Marshall, the then Director General of Archaeological Survey of India in 1922 will be
followed.
For repair and reconstruction of Private buildings of cultural importance not listed under
any Act, the department of Archaeology provides necessary guidelines to the owner of
private buildings. Government has also declared a scheme of assistance of maximum
Rs.3 lakhs to private heritage buildings and 5 lakhs to heritage buildings which are used
as educational institutions, hospitals and libraries.
Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) has conducted an
independent study of 488 unprotected buildings in Saurashtra and Kutch damaged by the
earthquake.
The State Department of Archaeology has carried out a survey of 471 private heritage
buildings including most of those studied by INTACH. The State government has also
requested INTACH to compile a list of unprotected monuments which can be considered
for declaration as protected monuments under the Act.
4     Various Acts and Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), Codes applicable for construction of
buildings that are being followed include standards for construction scheduling and safety,
seismic zoning, design intensity, wind and cyclone zones, subsoil investigation and soil type at
site, RCC and steel frame, beam-column joints, fire fighting & installation, hazard safety, etc.
11



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
For pulling down any building of cultural importance the following procedure will be
adopted.
1. Detailed documentation of the monument is done by preparing drawings and
photographs if the monument is listed under the Archaeological Monument Sites
& Remains Act 1965.
2. In case of restoration the monument is dismantled systematically by numbering
each of the stones.
3. Erection of derrick pole with chain pulley to pull down heavy stones from a
height and also erection of necessary scaffolding
4. Prior to pulling down, necessary safe guards will be taken so that the stones do
not fall down on other stones and structures by appropriate propping up
techniques.
5. The doors and windows and other items of art and cultural value will not be
thrown away with the debris and the debris of cultural and heritage buildings will
be inspected before actual disposal.
Of the 134 partially damaged monuments, works were taken up using the 'force account'
at an estimated cost of Rsl 1.42 crores under the Phase I programme. Works have been
completed in 4 monuments, and the remaining repair works will be completed by
December 31, 2003. All such repair works have been undertaken by specialized agencies
(Archaeological Survey of India, and the Gujarat State Department of Archaeology).
The Phase II programme includes no work on any recognized cultural property.
However, the retrofitting of the public buildings subcomponent may include some
buildings with cultural value, although none of the buildings are recognized cultural
properties (and are not protected). The reconstruction activities pertain to conservation
and restoration of the cultural property. Therefore, this activity is not going to disturb or
affect the environmental setting and cultural value of the public buildings (such as the
Bhuj Museum and the Archives Buildings of Rajkot & Junagadh). The original
environment of the sites will be maintained.
2.6   Dam Safety and Irrigation Component
Emergency work for safe staging of dams to withstand the monsoons, and some of the
requisite testings of borrow soil and foundation investigations including the reappraisal of
the hydrological analysis for the design of the dams, have been completed under Phase I.
Phase II will focus on the works for undertaking the strengthening of the earthquake-
affected dams to the latest earthquake resistant design standards based on the latest Indian
standards and suggestions of the dam safety panel. All these works are being carried out
under the overall guidance of the two Dam Safety Review Panels (DSRPs) constituted by
the Government of Gujarat (GOG). The members of DSRP are independent national and
international level experts with professional experience in different relevant disciplines.
A consultancy firm is being hired for Quality Control and Implementation Progress
monitoring for both the Phase I and Phase II program. These works include testing of
about 8,000 soil samples in various testing laboratories to deternine the soil parameters
to be used in the engineering designs, finalization of engineering designs and drawings by
the Central Design Organization (CDO) of the Water Resource Department, preparation
of cost estimates and bid documents, and award of works. All the works are undertaken
12



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
with respect to the existing Indian Standard Codal provisions for construction, safety and
environmental standards.
Only in the case of 5 earthen dams in Kutch and 25 earthen dams in Saurashtra the height
of the dams are likely to be increased by about Im for the provision of additional
temporary flood storage (free- board). The active full reservoir water level (FRL) of
these dams (even where the dam height will increase) will not increase; and there will be
no increase in the area of submergence corresponding to the FRL for any of the dams.
In case of the increase of height in any or some of these 30 earthen dams has altered the
category of these dams from medium (in Indian Standard it is for the dam height between
10 meter to 15 meter) to large dam, appropriate design standard and specification will be
introduced for such dam(s) in consultation with the DSRP.
In addition to the structural measures, specific non-structural measures on safety of dams
and related hazard have also been planned under the project. This includes preparation of
emergency preparedness plan, training of project staff associated with flood forecasting
and flood monitoring, training of village/taluka level government functionaries and
village  representatives  on  disaster preparedness  operations, preparation  and
implementation of reservoir operation and maintenance plan for about 20 reservoirs
schemes having significant down stream hazard potential, and awareness campaign in
potentially affected population on hazard related aspects.
Considering down stream hazard potential, The Dam Safety Review Panel has
identified the dams for non-structural measures with following criteria
i) Population affected down stream of dams, i.e. City/Town/Village affected on down
stream of dams.
ii) Thickly populated cities/towns affected immediately down stream of dam
iii) Gross storage of dams: More the storage more will be damage; priority is also given
to dams having large storage.
iv) Types of Structure: The gated dams are given priority for non-structural measures.
Based on above criteria 20 Dams are selected for non-structural measures and list is
enclosed. (Annexure 7)
Dam Crest Raising and awareness in affected population:
There is a plan under this project for upstream and downstream affected population for
the awareness about increase safety due to increase in capacity of reservoir.
Increase in height of the dam is not for additional storage hence there will not be any
upstream submergence or downstream hazard. This aspect will be explained to affected
people by campaigning in phased manner.
As a part of the non-structural measures, the following activities are planned: -
a) Training of Staff:
13



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
The training of technical and non-technical staff involved in the flood forecasting, and
flood monitoring are planned under this project. About 30 technical and 52 non-technical
staff will be trained at an estimated cost of Rs. 4 lakhs.
For the selected 20 projects (Annexure I) wherein the downstream hazard potential is
significant, detailed operation and maintenance procedure for reservoirs and head work
will be prepared and made operational under this project at an estimated cost of about Rs.
5 Lakhs
b) Preparation of reservoir operation and maintenance plan:
Of the above-mentioned 20 selected reservoir projects 14 are gated reservoir projects. For
these gated reservoir projects the detailed rule curves (reservoir filling pattern) will be
designed and the manual for the operation of gates will be prepared and the trained staff
of the projects will implement the same. This is planned to be done at an estimated cost
of about Rs.5 lakhs.
(c) Awareness campaign and training of downstream affected population:
The population living on the downstream areas of the 20 above mentioned projects need
awareness for hazard preparedness under this project. It is planned to train "Sarpanchs"
(village representative) and "Talaties" (village level govt. Officer) of these villages
alongwith the local Homeguard staff and village security forces staff in basics of disaster
preparedness and mitigation at village level at Water and Land Management Institute
(WALMI). It is planned to train about 2000 people living downstream of projects.
Similarly for the entire project, the downstream villages awareness campaign and training
will also imparted. In addition to all the downstream villages of all the projects will be
covered under this project. The estimated cost of training and general awareness through
videos etc. is about Rs.25 lakhs.
(d) Emergency Preparedness & Flood Mitigation:
The dams are strengthened to pass floods safely. GOG already has a Flood Mitigation
Plan for the State, which is put in action during times of floods.
The State level Disaster Preparedness Plan is activated. Local level Disaster Preparedness
Plan includes the population of flood-affected areas and mitigation plans are activated
where in all the aspects of flood fighting, life saving and sustenance of population are
take care of. Approach Roads are also inspected to facilitate approach.
The flood mitigation activities are monitored and checked right upto Government level
though the wireless network affiliated with Police Department.
Narmada, Water Resources and Water Supply Department has permanent Dam Safety
Organization with engineers who inspect each dam for pre-monsoon period and checks
on all components of dam. A separate allocation is made in the Budget of the
Department for Dam Safety Repairs.
The operation of spillway gates can be done with three alternatives using electrical
power, diesel-lifting device or manually labour to make them fail-safe.
14



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
Necessary flood fighting materials are collected at appropriate places along with
manpower and machinery. Flood fighting units consisting of Excavator Loader, Dippers /
Dumpers, Dozers, Power Generator and other necessary items are strategically placed at
various places in the area to enable it to rush to flood affected places.
Before release of flood waters from dams, all downstream people are warned and release
of water are controlled carefully to have minimum effect on down-stream population and
to contain the water within the carrying capacity of river channels. In case of extreme
emergency when large flow of water is required to be released, all concerned right up to
the Hon. Minister is informed and downstream population is given enough time for
evacuation. These activities are carried out with the help of Police Department, Revenue
Department, Army, etc.
The detailed Flood Manual is published every year covering information such as
technical details, organization structure of flood cell, who will do what and when etc.
including which villages / areas are to be warned when and how.
The Flood Cell has a central control room at Gandhinagar connected with hot lines. Fax,
E-Mail, HF wireless etc. with key sub centers located in various parts of the State which
in turn are connected with the key locations. The Flood Cell works round the clock
headed by a Class I Officer.  Such as rain gauge stations, river-gauging stations, dam
sites etc. with telephone/ wireless system. Each station is staffed round the clock in
three shifts with trained technical people.
(e) Database preparation:
A database on available manpower, machinery, mode of flood fighting and safe Places
etc. is also planned to be prepared with Phone No. & location and dissipated at an
estimated cost of about Rs.10 lakhs. The literature of database and other precaution
against flood hazard will also circulated to downstream population.
(f) Other Measures:
Disaster preparedness is an ongoing activity of the state and Water Resources Department
since many years. A high level co-ordination of all the key departments such as Water
Resources Department, Home Department, Revenue Department, Army,       IMD,
Doordarshan, All India Radio etc.is being done at the level of Chief Secretary. Pre-
monsoon meetings are scheduled and detailed planning is worked out.
The Flood Cell of W.R.Dept. is headed by a Chief Engineer and Additional Secretary
assisted by Focal Officers (Superintending Engineers) for river basins. Orders are issued
for round the clock duties in three shifts for all the key locations.
2.7   Social development aspects
Over the past ten months the GOG has implemented a number of activities that have
elicited the attention of affected people, including the damage assessment survey and
repeat rounds, payment of compensation, information dissemination, and establishment
of the grievance redressal mechanism. On the whole, given the size of the area and large
numbers affected, it appears that people have been well reached by the surveys and
compensation. Efforts to further enhance the participatory framework are underway.
15



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
2.8   Community participation
The reconstruction and rehabilitation program has been conceived as people's program
and the same is being implemented as a participatory process. The Village Gram Sabha
which consists of all the adult members in the village has been given the complete power
to decide about the relocation or In Situ reconstruction of a village. Community
participation in the rehabilitation program is an empowering process, which will enable
the communities to take decisions and implement the reconstruction program in
accordance with its priority and choice. It will enable socially and economically weaker
sections to claim their entitlements in the program. It will also create a strong sense of
ownership of reconstructed assets and satisfaction over their collective accomplishments.
In order to enable the communities participate in the program and to have two-way
information flow, Setu centers have been formed as sub centers linking villages and the
taluka. The Setus which are functioning in the district of Kutch will be extended to other
worst affected talukas also. These sub centers are conceived as centers which will educate
people not only about the various government schemes and programs but also as centers
which will train communities and self help groups to monitor the reconstruction program.
In the long term these groups will be actively involved in managing disasters at the
community level.
The needs of the vulnerable groups like children, women and Scheduled Castes and
Tribes have also been adequately taken care of. Three tier grievance redressal
mechanisms have been evolved to look into any complaints which may arise. The district
judge has been appointed as the Ombudsman to receive complaints directly from the
aggrieved and decide on the merit of the case and to direct the district authorities. The
project is also addressing the social rehabilitation needs of women, orphans and the
handicapped as part of the recovery program. The commission for Scheduled castes and
Tribes also can directly hear cases of discrimination if any and enquire. The government
has not received any complaint regarding discrimination on the basis of caste in
disbursement of Assistance in the Reconstruction Programme.
The villages, which are relocated, are reconstructed by NGOs either on 100% basis or in
Public private partnership where the NGO contributes 50% and the remaining 50% is
contributed by the government. Mostly the relocations are on government land. The
villages where there is Public-Private Partnership are funded from the housing
component of ADB loan. There is no forced relocation and also there is no compulsory
acquisition of land. The relocation is on government land or on the donated land.
16



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
3.    ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
3.1   Environmental Impacts of the Earthquake.
The earthquake that hit Gujarat had a number of environmental impacts, both direct and
indirect. These impacts have been assessed in order to identify measures that could be
considered during the reconstruction effort and as part of a broader disaster management
framework and strategy. The Gujarat Earthquake Recovery Program Assessment Report
(March 14, 2001) included a summary of a Rapid Environmental Impact Assessment
(REIA), which outlined the main environmental issues as they were understood shortly
after the earthquake.  The REIA was followed by a more comprehensive Rapid
Environmental Appraisal (Gujarat Institute of Desert Ecology - March 2001), which
further outlined the issues and options with regards to the reconstruction effort in the
context of the delicate ecology of the affected area. The direct impacts identified
included the generation of large amounts of debris and rubble requiring proper disposal
and damage to water management/use infrastructure, among others. These assessments
also recognized that additional impacts would need to be mitigated as a result of the
reconstruction efforts. The assessments are also important background documents to the
environmental management framework, which has been developed for the reconstruction
program.
3.2   Environmental Management Framework.
The environmental management framework covering the reconstruction effort continues
to evolve as the issues facing the reconstruction program become clearer and the scope of
the environmental challenge is better understood. Much of the initial work was done
under extreme emergency measures and some mitigation measures are likely to be
required to minimize the long term impacts of what was done in the early days following
the earthquake. This is particularly relevant for the rubble and debris management
aspects.  In addition to the need to mitigate the environmental impacts of the
reconstruction program, it has also become apparent that the environmental management
framework needs to be expanded and up-streamed to address issues in the reconstruction
strategy, such as town planning and temporary camp management. This has led to the
development of a more comprehensive approach to the environmental assessment (EA),
as illustrated below. The EA process proposes to identify opportunities for upstream
enhancements of project components and mitigation of potential impacts, while
recognizing the constraints imposed by an emergency operation.
The environmental management framework for the overall reconstruction effort being
implemented through GSDMA includes a number of background studies, including issues
and options in housing reconstruction and community infrastructure and a water audit,
among others. Environmental mitigation measures are being included in the project
design as and where applicable and the project is expected to have a net positive effect on
the environment. Furthermore, the continuous consideration of issues as and when they
arise will allow for updating of the environmental monitoring framework and supervision
framework.
17



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
Project Environmental Management Framework
Stakeholder Consultation and Participation Framework
Project        [ |                               | p|   Environmental
Components                                          -05
.... >Environmental Assessment              Management
Guidelines
A                   ~~~~~~~A                          A
...............  .................................... 
Upstream
Opportunities
for   .-                 Background Studies and Assessments
Enhancement
and
Mitigation
............ ... ......
The implementation of the Environmental Management Framework (EMF) is underway
with the assistance of the Gujarat Ecology Commission (GEC) and partner agencies. A
number of background studies are underway including Water Audit, Environmental
Assessment for Housing and Community Infrastructure, some of which provided
guidance to this environmental analysis report. The EMF is being developed and
implemented with guidance from the Bank.
3.3   GEERP Environmental and Social Analysis and Environmental Management
Plan
This section analyzes the key environmental issues, which arise as a result of the
proposed Bank financing of the Phase II reconstruction project. The proposed GEERP
environmental analysis is one of the elements of the broader environmental management
framework discussed previously and serves as the GOG's statement of environmental
management commitment for the Phase II project.
The results of the environmental analysis are presented in Table 1, where a list of
potential environmental issues has been prepared to guide the analysis. This analysis has
been done on a component-by-component basis. For each component, the mitigation
measures which are already implemented or applied (such as in the design phase or
during implementation of Phase I components) are listed in some detail. Additional
mitigation measures are proposed in the third column while the proposed monitoring
strategy and contingency measures are presented in the fourth column.
The nature of the proposed Environmental Management Plan include: (i) use of standard
mitigation measures as part of design and contracts; (ii) use of standard codes of practice
as part of contract packages; (iii) use of negative lists (things a specific component would
not finance), and; (iv) use of screening criteria to determine whether additional
18



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
environmental work needs to be done on a sub-project by sub-project basis. The use and
applicability of these mitigation measures are discussed in the context of each component
below in Table 1. The implementation schedule of the Environmental Management Plan
is shown in Table 2.
19



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                                                                                                           March 11, 2002
Table 1: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
(1)      {                        ~~         ~        ~        ~~~~~~~(2)               (3)                                            (4)l
Possible Environmental Issues                     Process Already Applied                                Mitigation Measures                    Monitoring Strategy & Contingency
Measures
1. PERMANENT HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION & RELATED ISSUES
Generation  of construction  wastes,  *  The World   Bank will finance only repair and     -   Awareness   campaign  will be  conducted  at   -   The   storage/handling  of construction
excavated earth and debris;             reconstruction of private houses. The component will   village/town levels, so that construction wastes and  wastes and excavated materials will be
E    Degradation of the debris disposal      disburse against the final installments of the house  excavated materials at each site is managed        overseen by engineers appointed at every
areas (secondary debris only)           building assistance. The other components, including   properly; storagc/piling is regular and away from  village by the GSDMA.
urban development, extension of infrastructure and    water bodies and drainage channels.            *   All secondary debris disposal site will be
*    l    ocal  mpacts on drainage channels  utlities will be financed by other agencies, icludig  *  Places, where debris disposal was done in an    redeveloped, as identified and required, by
(flow of solid wastes into the channels)  the ADB, the Gol and the GoG.                        unplanned manner, causing potential environmental  the PWD, on behalf of the GSDMA All
*    Land acquisition for disposal areas  *  In 4 major urban centers (Bhuj, Rapar, Anjar and      degradation, will be identified by the GEC, and    redevelopment activity  will be  duly
*    Land acquisition for housing sites       3hachau) systematic debris disposal plans had been   mitigation measures would be developed             documented    (including  photographs
*  Change of land use due to urban      prepared and implemented. In smaller urban centers and  A detailed EMP for disposal of (secondary) wastes  showing  pre-  and  post-development
exChangeo of lndw husen duestoit urba      villages, debris were disposed in a manner without    will be prepared by the GEC, and will be           stages),
expansion or new housig districts (4    affecting water-bodies, plantation, forests and any other  implemented by the Line Departments, such as the  'I'he new housing development activities
large urban settlements, and 10 smaller  known flora/fauna habitats.                           PWD and the Revenue Department. At village         will be supervised by Consultants. The
*   GSDMA has already prepared Guidelines for disposal     levels, the communities will be involved in the    consultant's ToR includes supervision of
Ovcruse of environmental resources as   of debris, and implemented by the line agencies. All   planning  and  site selection  for disposal of     the     environmental    management
building materials                      secondary debris and construction waste disposal sites  debris/wastes. This will ensure that community    components.   Further,  all  housing
will be govemment lands.                              assets are not affected by the project.            development activities would be subject to
*   No resettlement due to land acquisition etc. only private  *  The land use changes have been proposed for 4  third party quality audits.
properties voluntarily sold or donated.               towns in Kutch district by respective town planning  *  The  Implementing  departments  will
*   In 2 of the 4 major urban areas require no land        studies. The studies considercd the impact of land  monitor   the     preparation   and
acquisition. In Bh.j and A-jar, aboAt 8500 people will  use changes, on environmental and ecological     implementation of the CEMPs (for the
be relocated (in the periphery of the towns). In Bhuj and  resources, and recommended (future) expansion of  temporary housing) regularly, and will
Anjar the land   required  for such relocation        the towns so as to avoid/minimize any such         submit Bi-atnnual progress reports. Other
govementowne. Insmaler rbansettemens an in impacts. These town plans are subject to the usual  regular monitoring will include (a) regular
govemment owned, In smaller urban settlements and in
villages, the land required is small, and are mostly   EA process of an ADB project.                     rubble removal service; (b) sweeping up
govemment land. Even private landowners volunteered                                                      operations on the roadside and the nearby
in offering their land for housing rebuilding.                                                           open land; (c) village clean up activities.
c   The govemment land (or land voluntarily donated by                                                   *    Rehabilitation of the temporary housing
the private owners) is mostly barren areas, No known                                                     sites, and the debris disposal sites are
ecological habitat is reported from any of these lands.                                                   important elements of the EMP prepared
by the GEC. The World Bank will review
A   large  number  of  building  materials,  both                                                        the EMP to ensure that all relevant issues
conventional and non-conventional, would be used. 'IThe                                                  are integrated in the EMP.
use of nonmal bricks would be limited (and therefore
the issue of topsoil loss will not be significant). Stones,                                          *   GSDMA will review a sample village and
the most readily available material (Kutch is a major                                                    a sample town in details to ascertain the
supplier of building stones) will be used  from                                                          debris/waste management practices, in a
regularized quarries. Timber, which would be used as                                                     periodic manncr.
roofing  menmbers  will  be  all imported  (and
consequently, there is no impacts on forests).
20



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                                                                                                        March 11, 2002
(1)                  f                        (2)                         1                       (3)                       1                    (4)
Possible Environmental Issues                     Process Already Applied                              Mitigation Measures                    Monitoring Strategy & Contingency
Measures
2. PUBLIC BUILDINGS
* Generation  of  construction  wastes,  * The World Bank will finance the building components  * Construction supervision or project management  * The project management consultants and the
excavated earth and debris;             only. The other possible components such as land     consultants will supervise works on public buildings.  technical and  quality auditors will be
* Degradation of the debris disposal areas  development, provision/extension of infrastructure and  These consultants will oversee quality control, site  submitting periodic progress reports, which
utilities will be financed by other agencies, including the  management (includes management of materials).  will include  environmental compliance
* Local impacts on drainage channels (flow  ADB.                                                Only the minor repair works will not be subject to  monitoring reports.
of solid wastes into the channels)   * Most of the damaged buildings (about 90%) will be     third-party technical audits.                   * The cultural property policy adopted by the
* Land acquisition                        reconstructed in-situ (or in-campus), but some will be  * Tle new areas identified for relocation of public  Department of Sports, Youth and Cultural
* Change of land    use due to urban      relocated. Most of the new land is govemment owied.   buildings (about 1tf%) are mostly govemment land.  Affairs would be reviewed by the GSL)MA
expansion  or new   public  building    For management of debris disposal areas, management of  No forestland, ecological protected areas, national  and the Bank.
campuses                               local drainage issues, land use change, use of building  parks, wildlife sanctuaries, or known habitats of
* Overuse of environmental resources as   materials, measures similar to item I (Permanent Housing  certificate to the bank the d The GOG would give a
building materials                      Reconstruction & Related Issues) will be undertaken.  beforethe tconstruction begins.
* Structural quality of the buildings   * Inventory of the structural quality of the buildings has  All construction codes forbuildings safety and safety
been undertaken. The building regulations proposed for  o All constuio  ce  ing    s safetyds
* Damage!    degradation  of  heritage    the construction/reconstruction of public buildings are to  of the workers are beig strictly implemented.
buildings                               he designed to be adequate for relevant seismic resistant  * The implementing departments will ensure that the
standards.                                           building regulations and standaTds (as adopted) will
* All relevant building codes, including Indian Standard  be fully implemented.
codes for ensuring structural and construction safety (such  An inventory of the public buildings, with respect to
as for workmanship, material handling, safety gadgets and  cultural valies will be undertaken by an expert
facilities) will be strictly enforced.               agency. Documentation about the public buildings
* A preliminary study on she heritage value of the public  with cultural values, including measured drawing of
buildings has already been conducted by INTACH and    the more Important buildigs will be prepared.
other local NGOs. Consultants have been appointed for  * The Department of Sports, Youth and Cultural Affairs
heritage zone conservation (which would include a large  will adopt a  policy  on  cultural properties.
number of public buildings).                          Reconstruction or redevelopment will be undertaken
as per specialist advice. No building will be
dismantled until specified by the expert agencies.
3. PUBLIC BUILDINGS: RETROFITTING
* Storage of construction materials; impact  * Bank will finance only in-situ repair works. No major  * All construction codes for buildings safety and safety
on local drainage                       movement or procurement of materials is anticipated.  of the workers will be strictly implemented.
* Structural quality of the buildings   * Structural quality of the retrofitted buildings will be  * Structural engineers (Consultants) will make detailed
ensured in a way similar to that of item 2 (Public   examination of about 4200 public buildings for
Buildings).                                          seismic strengthening. The consultants will prepare a
plan to strengthen the buildings without disrupting the
current use of the buildings. The consultants will also
prepare a site management plan for individual
buildings, if the extent of strengthening works is
large.
21



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                                                                                                           March 11, 2002
l   (1)                                        (2)                                                  (3)                                            (4)
Possible Environmental Issues                     Process Already Applied                               NMitigation Measures                    Monitoring Strategy & Contingency
l______________________________________________   (.               M  easu res
4. PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE: ROADS/iBRIDGES
* Spillover and dust from the haulage of  * 185km of roads (including some minor bridges) are being  * Road sub-projects, where the works will consist of  * The reporting requirements applicable to the
materials                               rehabilitated in Phase-I using environmental management  repairs, maintenance, to the  original will be  Gujarat   State  Highways   Project,  on
. Pollution from and in the construction   provision of the Gujarat State Highways Project's     implemented   with  environmental  management      environmental compliance management will
calionps  from and in the conslructlon  environmental  management provisions  (maintenance     provisions similar to that of the Gujarat State   apply.
camps                                   components only).                                      Highways Project Road maintenance component.    * GSDMA will screen all the sub-projects for
* Loss of roadside vegetation           s 700km of roads have been identified for evaluation by  * The contractual provision (of the Gujarat State  maintenance and upgradation and submit the
* Water availability                       expert agencies; part of the 700km will be taken up for  Highways Project) includes standard guidelines for  reports to the World Bank.
* Pollution  of rivers/riverbeds  (where   maintenance/ upgradation under the project.           mitigation/management  of  construction  related  * The sub-project ToRs and EA reports, if any,
bridges are built)                                                                            impacts on air, water, noise, flora, fauna, cultural  will be reviewed by the GSDMA and the
* Management of borrow areas! quarries                                                           properties, workers' and public safety, etc.       Bank.
* The contractual provisions will be enforced by the
* Pollution from  hot-mix and batching                                                           supetvision consultants (or the quality assurance
plants                                                                                         consultants)
* Road sub-projects, where the works involve
upgradation or widening, or when the road passes
through forest areas, national parks or sanctuaries,
will be subject to separate sub-project EA. The sub-
projects, then, will be implemented along with all
measures suggested by the EA (or the EMP prepared
as part of the EA).
5. PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE: DAMS
* Increase of the catchment/ submergence   B Bank will finance only repairs (and strengthening, where  * If repairs and/or strengthening of the dams also  * Reporting  requirements  will  include
area duc to increase of height          the current structure is inadequate in terms of design) of  include increasing the height of the dams, the dam  quarterly  progress  reports, which  will
. Spillover and dust from haulage, storage  the earthen dams in Kutch and Saurastra. Of the 222 dams  safety panel would examine whether there is a  include  reports   on    environmental
and handling of earth                   identified for such works; 163 are minor dams, and 59 are  consequent increase in the catchment/ submergence  compliance.
and handling of earthmedium dams. (Also 90% of the dams have height less                   areas and needs for additional satety measures due to  * GSDMA  will screen the subprojects for
* Dam safety                              than 15m). Some of these dams are also used for drinking  change of category from medium to large dam ( if  increase in submergence, if any.
water supply. (The works on the supply networks will be  any)
financed by, and are subject to the usual EA process of the  * If any increase in the catchment/submergence area  * The sub-project EAs, if any, will be
ADB).                                                  occurs, each of such dams will be subject to separate  reviewed by the Bank.
Two Dam Safety Review Panels (DSRP), one each for      sub-project specific EA. The sub-projects, then, will  * Sub-project EAs  will be  implemented
Kutch and Saurashtra, consisting recognized experts5  be implemented along with all measures suggested by  wherever applicable.
have been created to review and evaluate the design,  the EA (or the EMP prepared as part of the EA).
planning  and   construction  and  to  ensure  the  * During   all  construction  activities,  standard
reconstruction/restorafion/modemization/  strengthening  construction codes for minimizing environmental
and repair of earthquake damaged dams as per design   concerns will be used. The standard codes include
criteria to the latest relevant Indian standards.      provisions for efficient storage, haulage, handling of
Detailed terms of reference have been prepared for the  earthwork,  dust  suppression,  erosion  control,
DSRP. DSRP has the power to engage other specialists,  workers' and public safety, etc. These safety aspects I
5Five experts in the fields of (a) dam design, (b) soil mechanics, (c) earthquake, (d) hydrology, (e) engineering geology, and (f) construction.
22



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                                                                                                                March 11, 2002
l   (1)                                          (2)                                                   (3)                                              (4)
Possible Environmental Issues                       Process Already Applied                                 Mitigation Measures                     Monitoring Strategy & Contingency
Measures
when and if required. Two local committee of experts of  during construction are to be included in the "special
also constituted to advise the l)SRP as and when required.  conditions" of the civil work contract documents of
Consultants for technical audit and quality assurance are  the dam construction.
also being procured.                                  * The technical audit and quality assurance consultants
would ensure that all standard codes, including those
related to environmental management will be
implemented fully.
6. DISASTER MANAGEMENT
* Buildings constructed                1    As applicable to Public buildings for the buildings
constructed in the component.                        l_
7. CONTINUATION OF PHASE I WORKS
* Public health issues in the temporary   * The temporary housing is complete. These will be under  * The sanitation and waste management issues will be  * The GSDMA will monitor the preparation
housing sites                             use till the permanent housing is not ready. Some       integrated in "community environmental management   and implementation of the CEMPs (for the
* Redevcliipment of thc temporary housing   sanitation and waste management facilities are already  plan" (CEMPs) prepared for each of the temporary    temporary   housing) regularly, and  will
sites                                     operative in the temporary housing sites.               housing sites.                                      submit quarterly progress reports. Other
. Secondary.debris disposal  * The primary debris/rubble removal is laigely complete. In  * All temporary houtsing sites will be rehabilitated once  regular monitoring will include (a) regular
*Secondary debr-is disposal               major urban centers, systematic debnis disposal had been  the people move into the permanent housing.       rubble removal service; (b) sweeping up
prepared and implemented. In smaller urban centers and  Guidelines for such rehabilitation will be prepared by  operations on the roadside and the nearby
villages, debris were disposed in a manner without      the GEC.                                             open land; (c) village clean up activities.
affecting water-bodies, plantation, forests and any other  * Provision  of regular  rubble removal services  * Rehabilitation  of the temporary housing
known flora/fauna habitats. GSDMA has already prepared  dpni- pnteqatm                                       sites, and the debris disposal sites are
Guidelines for disposal of debris, which is implemented  depending upon the quantum.                         important elements of the EMP prepared by
by the line agencies (or community organizations).    * Sweeping up of the small rubble accumulations,      the GEC. The World Bank will rcview~ the
. The first rondoscodryderslenbefore closure of the reconstruction activities. This  EMP to ensure that all relevant issues are
( ae first round of secondary debeis cleamnng and dtsposal  will be achieved through a "village clean up"      integrated in the EMP.
(as per the GoG guidehiiie) Implemented through the     initiative, involving the community (as it is already
Village Construction Committees was completed by        beinitiat  iolvierangiy the Gcmunt (asit  l       * The World Bank will review      a sample
January 2002.                                           beingsao unertn(akery thebs) Go o   laigad           village and a sample town in details to
* All secondary Debris and constrction waste disposal sites  *dsoa  fscnaydbi)                                 ascertain  the  debris/waste  management
will be govemment lands.                                All large rubble and debnis disposal sites will be   practices, in a periodic manner.
adequately closed. A complete list of all disposal sites
will be prepared by the GSDMA. Guidelines for
closure (including restoration of site, if any) will be
prepared by the GEC.
23



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                                                                                             March 11, 2002
Table 2: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project   Environmental Management Actions                       Project Implementation Period (Ending by Date)                 Budget       Monitoring & Supervision
Cornets                                            3/02  6/02  9/02 12/02 3/03  6/03  9/03 12/03 3/04  6/04  9/04 12/04 3/05  (Rs. Million)        Responsibility
Awareness campaign                        a                         .... urn.... .u  .....  m.                         5.0(A)     GSDMA
Preparation of Guidelines for Debris Disposal                                                                            -        GSDMA
oi       Residual Primary Debris Disposal          _                                                                                       GSDMA/ Revenue Department
od                                                 =                                                        _                              /R&B/lrrigation
o        Identification of Unplanned Primary Debris                                                                         GEC Contract   GSDMA
0
Disposal Sites, if any
Development of Mitigation Plan for above sites   _                                                                      -do-      GSDMA
O        Redevelopment Plan for (Secondary) Debris                                                                              -do-       GSDMA
Disposal Sites
Implementation of Above                                                                                                20.0       GSDMA/GEC
Environmental Management for Housing                                                                               Contract Cost  Supervision Consultants
0
Construction
Preparation of CEMPs (for Temporary                                                                                     2.0       Implementing Departments/
i        Housing Sites)                                             _                                                                      GSDMA
E        Implementation of CEMPs                                                                                                20.0       Implementing Departments
Rehabilitation of Temporary Housing Sites       _                              _     _     _                            20.0      Revenue Department/ GSDMA
Preparation of Guidelines for Debris Disposal                                                                            -        GSDMA
Identification of Unplanned Primary Debris                                                                         GEC Contract   GSDMA
Disposal Sites, if any
Development of Mitigation Plan for Primary                                                                             -do-       GSDMA
Debris Disposal Sites, if any
Redevelopment Plan for (Secondary) Debris                      I    I                                                   -do-      GSDMA
Disposal Sites                                                 I    7.
Implementation of Above                                    _     _    _                                                 5.0       GSDMA/GEC
Environmental Management during                                                                                     Contract Cost  Supervision Consultants, or
o        Construction                                                                                                                      Third Party Auditors
Enforcement of Building & Safety Codes                                                                                  -do-      -do-
Heritage Value Identification (Public Buildings)  ___ _                                                                 5.0        GSDMA
Guidelines for Public Buildings with Cultural                                                                            -        GSDMA/ Department of Culture
Value
Implementation of the Cultural Building                                                                             Contract Cost  Implementing Departments &
Guideline                                                                                                                         GSDMA
24



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                                                                                             March 11, 2002
Project   Environmental Management Actions                       Project Implementation Period (Ending by Date)                 Budget       Monitoring & Supervision
Compo                                                         9/21/230            13  ~    2(Rs. Million)                                         Responsibility
nents                                              3/02 6/02  9/02 12/02 3/03  6/03  9/03 12/03 3/04  6/04  9/04 12/04 3/05
Preparation of Retrofitting Plan          _                                                                                       Implementing Departments
CDn)     Enforcement of Building & Workers' Safety                ___                                                       Contract Cost  Implementing Departments,
c 0      Codes                                                                                                                             Third Party Auditors
: =    Preparation of Site Management Plan for              _                                                                  5.0       Implementing Departments,
m o      Large Sites, if any                                                                                                               GSDMA
m    r   e Implementation of the Site Management Plan                                                                       Contract Cost  Implementing Departments,
a.       for Large Sites                                                                                                                   Third Party Auditors
Technical Audit & Quality Control                                                                                                 Quality Assurance Consultants
Preparation of Environmental Management                                                                             Government    R&BD, GSDMA
Plans for Road/Bridge Maintenance Projects                                                                           Overhead
= s    Implementation of the above during                                                                                 Contract Cost  R&BD, Supervision or Quality
.      construction                                                                                                                      Assurance Consultants
E rn   Preparation of Sub-Project EA (and EMP), if                                                                             5.0       R&BD, GSDMA
e r      required
*o a:  Implementation of the Sub-Project EMP, if                                                                          Contract Cost  Supervision or Quality
prepared                                                                                                                          Assurance Consultants
Technical Audit & Quality Control                                                                                                 Quality Assurance Consultants
Constitution and Operationalisation of the                                                                          Project Cost  Water Resources Department
Dam Safety Review Panels
Preparation of Terms of Reference for the  _                                                                                      Water Resources Department
Dam Safety Review Panels
Constitution of Local Committee of Experts                                                                                        Water Resources Department
E                                                        _    _                                             _                             .
ia       Preparation of Sub-Project EA (and EMP), if                                                                            10.0       Water Resources Department,
required                                              =    -    =                                                                 GSDMA
Implementation of the Sub-Project EMP                                                                              Contract Cost  Water Resources Department
2        Enforcement of Standard Construction Codes                                                                             -do-       Water Resources Department
Technical Audit & Quality Control                                    .    .   ...                                   Project Cost  Quality Assurance Consultants
Training in Flood Forecasting & Monitoring                                                                              0.4       Water Resources Department
8:       Preparation of O&M Procedures for 20 Sub-                                                                               0.5       Water Resources Department/
a.i      projects with Downstream hazard                                                                                                   GSDMA
Preparation of Reservoir Operation &                                                                                    0.5       Water Resources Department/
Maintenance Plan                                                                                                                  GSDMA
Awareness Campaign & Public Training      ___                                                                           2.5       Water Resources Department
Preparation and Distribution/Disclosure of                                                                              1.0       Water Resources Department
Database for Disaster Safety                                    =          =  =  =     =     _    _     _
25



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                                                                                                  March 11, 2002
Project   Environmental Management Actions                         Project Implementation Period (Ending by Date)                  Budget         Monitoring & Supervision
Compo                                                3/02  6/02  9/02 12/02 3/03  6/03  9/03 12/03 3/04  6/04  9/04 12/04 3/05   (Rs. Million)         Responsibility
nents
Guidelines for Removal and Disposal of                                                                                                GSDMA
Debris
Primary Debris Removal and Disposal                                                                                    Phase I Cost   GSDMA/ Revenue
DepartmentVR&B
Secondary Debris Cleaning and Disposal                                                                                     -do-       GSDMA/ Revenue Department
/R&B
Regular Rubble Removal Services                                                                                            -do-       GSDMA
o        Sweeping up Small rubble Accumulation                                                                                      -do-       GSDMA
through "Village Clean Up Initiative"
Preparartion of Guidelines for Closure of                                                                                  -do-       GSDMA/GEC
c        Large Rubble and Debris Disposal Sites
o!       Closure of the Large Rubble and Debris                                                                                     20.0       GSDMA/ Revenue
c        Disposal Sites                                              ____                                                                      Department/R&B/I rrigation
0
Periodic Monitoring of Rubble and Debris              . . .                   *                                        Phase I Cost   GSDMA
Disposal Services
Initial Provision of Sanitation & Waste                                                                                    20.0       Implementing Departments,
O        Management Facilities in the Temporary                                                                                                GSDMA
Housing Sites
Preparation of CEMPs for each Temporary                                                                                    10.0       Implementing Departments,
Housing Sites                                                                                                                         GSDMA
Guidelines for Rehabilitation of Temporary                            I         =                                          5.0        GSDMA/GEC
Housing Sites                                                                                                                       I
Rehabilitation of the temporary Housing Sites                                       _                                      50.0       GSDMA/ Revenue Department
GSDMA would hold periodic review in consultation withl the Bank for implementation of the Environmental Management Plan.
26



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
3.4   Referentce to the World Bank's Environmental Policy on Cultural Property and
Dams & Dam Safety
The following discussion deals with issues which are particularly relevant in the context
of the World Bank's environmental policy and are therefore discussed in more detail.
This deals with the issues of dams and dam safety, as it relates to the Bank's policy on
Safety of Dams, and that on cultural and heritage sites as it relates to the Bank's policy on
Cultural Property.
3.4.1 Water Tanks, Irrigation Works and the Bank's Policy on Safety of Dams.
As discussed earlier, the nature of work involves the repair, rehabilitation and
strengthening of earthen dams. Of the 222 earthen dams identified for such works; 163
are minor dams, and 59 are medium dams. (Also 90% of the dams have height less than
1 5m). Some of these dams are also used for drinking water supply.
Only in the case of 5 earthen dams in Kutch and 25 earthen damns in Saurashtra the height
of the dams are likely to be increased by about Im for flood retention storage. The
increase therefore will not alter the active full reservoir level (FRL) of these dams (even
where the dam height will increase) and there will be no increase in the area of
submergence at the active storage level for any of the dams.
Two Dam Safety Review Panels, one each for Kutch and Saurashtra, are overseeing the
work on these earthen dams. These panels were established under GOG Resolutions No.
GEN-102001/12-(8)-K6 and (for panel 1) and GEN-102001/12-(8)-K6 (for panel 2).
Each of the panels consists of 5 (nationally and internationally renowned) experts in the
fields of dam design, soil mechanics, earthquake, hydrology, engineering geology, and
construction. These panels will review and evaluate the design, and recommended the
reconstruction/restoration/strengthening and repairs of earthquake-damaged dams as per
design criteria conforming to the latest Indian Standards. The terms of reference of these
expert panels, which were reviewed and cleared by the Bank, have been outlined in the
above-mentioned resolutions. The Dam Safety Review Panels have the power to engage
other specialists, when and if required. Two local committees of experts have also been
constituted to assist the Dam Safety Review Panels, as and when required.
Furthermore, an independent consultant will be retained for technical audit, quality
assurance and progress monitoring for the dam repair works. The TORs for this
assignment have also been reviewed and cleared by the Bank. Documents for hiring
consultants are being prepared by the GOG.
For all cases, where there is increase in the height of the dams, the dam safety panel
would examine whether there is a consequcnt increase in the catchment/ submergence
areas. If any increase in the catchment/ submergence area occurs, each of such dams will
be subject to separate sub-project specific EA. The sub-projects, then, will be
implemented along with all measures suggested by the EA (or the EMP prepared as part
of the EA).
27



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
During all construction activities, standard construction codes for minimizing
environmental concerns will be used and if required safety measures during construction
are to be mentioned in the standard contract specification. The standard codes include
provisions for efficient storage, haulage, handling of earthwork, dust suppression, erosion
control, workers' and public safety, etc. The technical audit and quality assurance
consultants will monitor the implementation of all standard codes, including those related
to environmental management are implemented fully. Reporting requirements will
include quarterly progress reports, which will include reports on compliance with the
environmental management plan.
3.4.2 Cultural Property and Heritage Sites
As discussed earlier, the proposed GEERP (Phase II project) includes no work on any
recognized cultural property6 . However, the retrofitting of the public buildings
subcomponent may include some building with cultural value, even though none of the
buildings may be recognized7 cultural properties (and are not protected).
Nevertheless, if any archaeological monument protected by the State Department of
Archaeology is to be rehabilitated/retrofitted, it will be rehabilitated in-situ without
disturbing the original fabric of the property.  So far as the preparation and
implementation of a plan for protection and management of these monumental cultural
properties are concerned, they are already protected under the Gujarat Ancient
Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1965 and are maintained by the
State Department of Archaeology through its circle offices, which are equipped with
technical know-how for the said work.
The archaeological monuments and public buildings are maintained by Government of
Gujarat, Sports, Youth & Cultural Activities Department and the Roads & Buildings
department respectively. For all public buildings that are not listed (or recognized as
cultural property) but are of importance culturally, a decision process would be in place
for evaluation that no such buildings are demolished and would be monitored by the
respective departments with periodic review by GSDMA.
An inventory of the public buildings, with respect to cultural values will be undertaken by
an expert agency. Documentation about the public buildings with cultural values,
including measured drawing of the more important buildings will be prepared. The
Department of Sports, Youth and Cultural Affairs will adopt a policy on cultural
properties. Reconstruction or redevelopment will be undertaken as per specialist advice.
No building (or part thereof) will be dismantled until specified by the expert agencies.
6 A total of 134 damaged monuments, are being repaired in Phase I (to be completed by
December 2003), where all the repair works are by specialized agencies.
7 Either by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) or the Gujarat State Department of
Archaeology.
28



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
4.    SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
4.1   The Social Assessment Process
The proposed GEERP will utilize the findings of the ongoing Social Needs and Impact
Assessment that has been put in place as part of the Bank's Phase I assistance to
implement the social safeguards framework and strengthen social development, notably
ensuring community participation, inclusion and equitable access of all (especially the
most vulnerable groups among the earthquake affected) to project benefits. The social
assessment is designed to continuously identify the needs of the affected people,
especially those of vulnerable groups such as women, children, scheduled castes,
scheduled tribes, minorities, the disabled, destitute and aged. It is also identifying the
positive and negative social impacts of the recovery program on all stakeholders,
including the effects of the institutions involved (Government, NGOs, Panchayati Raj
Institutions, Corporate Bodies, etc.). Attention is also being paid to needs and impacts
related to disaster preparedness and management in the future. The social assessment is
also expected to investigate any land acquisition and resettlement and rehabilitation that
is expected to occur, is occurring and has occurred in the project areas. Information from
this participatory needs and impact monitoring will be available regularly to the GSDMA
and other relevant authorities for follow-up action, especially to mitigate any possible
negative effects and enhance the positive effects of the program.
The first SA report has identified some specific needs, as in the following table
No.   Identified Specific Needs             Gujarat Government Initiatives
I    Updating of land records              Land records will be updated and if
necessary, issue of smart cards will be
undertaken
2    Providing employment due to disruption of Livelihood packages have been announced
work
3    Provision of medical facilities to the  Mobile medical vans with medical staff
disabled people                       provided.
4     Provision of temporary shelter to tenants  All affected tenants have been provided
temporary shelter
5    Public buildings rebuilding and retrofitting  Administrative and technical approvals are
plans                                 being given on a case by case basis.
6    Availability of information and       All information provided on the GSDMA
transparency                          website; village level information to be
posted at a public place in each village
7     Impact of earthquake on water resources.  Steps to be taken are covered in the
environmental assessment report
8     Supply of drinking water              Already provided
9     Consideration of the needs of        Being considered as planning is done
underprivileged groups in the allocation of  through a consultative process
houses
The continuing output of the social assessments will provide representative quantitative
and qualitative data, which would enable monitoring of the social dimensions of the
recovery program over the life of the GEERP. Just like the 'Rolling EA', the continuous
SAs provide an independent mechanism for monitoring social needs and impacts. The
29



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
community monitoring mechanisms, such as grievance redressal committees and public
disclosure of beneficiary lists, will also help to ensure inclusion and equity in the
distribution of project benefits.
4.2   Social Safeguard in the Reconstruction Project
In accordance with the Bank's environmental and social policies and guidelines, this
section of the environmental and social analysis report focuses on two particular aspects
of the reconstruction program which have to be addressed to ensure compliance with the
Bank's policies, namely the aspects of involuntary resettlement and of benefits to
indigenous (i.e., tribal) people.
4.2.1 Involuntary Resettlement
The GOG has provided the Bank with the information on the ownership of the status of
the large sites used for temporary shelters in phase I, partial relocation of villages and
debris disposal, and confirmed that no displacement or land acquisition has taken place in
establishing these sites. Primary displacement has been minimal on account of the policy
of GOG and efforts, and in situ reconstruction was preferred wherever possible. In the
case of a few communities requiring relocation, the GOG's policy is to reconstruct in the
government owned lands or donated private lands. No land acquisition is currently
envisaged in the project and hence, secondary displacement is considered unlikely.
However, on account of the extent of the affected area, and community driven decision
making, if there is any need to acquire land, GOG will consult the Bank on relocations
involving 25 families or more, and will implement the principles of full compensation
and livelihood restoration for any secondarily displaced persons. GDSMA will review
the cases that may arise, document their details and ascertain that the agreed procedures
on R&R are being followed, where Bank funds are utilized.
If private land is needed for reconstruction, the GOG would assist the relevant
community to purchase the land on the principle of willing seller - willing buyer rather
than resorting to land acquisition law. If such a land acquisition is necessary and if there
is any secondary displacement, the government would in consultation with the Bank
prepare an appropriate resettlement plan. The owners and occupants of the acquired land
would be eligible for support based on the World Bank's Policy on Involuntary
resettlement. The key principles for support are that the land and other properties
acquired would be compensated at replacement cost, and provided support for livelihoods
if earning capacity is reduced as a result of land acquisition.
The cost of Housing component and other infrastructure for villages, which opt for
relocation under Public private partnership will be born from ADB funds.
(a)   Resettlement ("Relocation") of the earthquake-affected persons
* The village assembly (Gram Sabha) has to pass a resolution agreeing to
relocation of part or whole of the village, and to the specific site of relocation.
Hence a participatory and transparent process is being followed and no forced
relocation is expected. In the event of disagreement between people in a village,
a grievance redressal process is in place at village/district or state level.
30



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
*  To date, 66 villages (mostly in Kutch district) have opted for either complete or
partial relocation. Most of the villages, however, have opted for partial
relocation. During the project, the number of villages to be relocated - partly in
most cases - may be around 70. All these villages are NGO partnership villages.
*  The new sites are being examined for feasibility with regard to housing and
infrastructure. Government officials along with village elders and the village
panchayats investigate alternative new sites, which are in almost all cases within
the geographical area of the same village. A site is selected for relocation of a
village only on satisfaction of the community.
*  Bank finance will not be utilized for any aspect of the relocation of the villages
where NGO partnership is involved
*  The GSDMA will consult the Bank on any case of 25 families or more being
relocated and if Bank's funds are utilized, specifying the arrangements for
obtaining the land on which they would relocate. A full resettlement action plan
(RAP) would be prepared in such cases.
(b)   Secondary Displacement
In Phase I, the GOG agreed to consult the Bank on relocations involving more than 25
families, which would require a resettlement action plan to be prepared and it was also
agreed to implement the principles of full compensation and livelihood restoration for
affected (secondarily displaced) persons in the event of land acquisition .In case of any
involuntary displacement the principles of compensation will be followed even for the
displacement of one person against his wishes. Although no significant instances of
secondary displacement have occurred in phase I, the GSDMA will review relocations
case-by-case, document their details, and ascertain that the agreed procedures on R&R
are being followed.
As and when the possibility of secondary displacement arises in this Project, the GOG
will inform the Bank, and an appropriate Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) will be
prepared based on the R&R Policy and Entitlement Framework already adopted for the
Bank financed Gujarat State Highways Project (See Annexure - 2 attached). Decisions
about land acquisition would be taken only after full consultation with all affected people,
and full disclosure of information and entitlements.
The project will use (a) government land without encroachments and occupants where
available, or (b) private lands that have been donated, or brought on the willing seller-
willing buyer principle. No forcible land acquisition (under the Land Acquisition Act) is
currently envisaged.
However, the owners and occupants of any land acquired would be eligible for support
based on the said R&R Framework of the Gujarat State Highways Project. The key
principles contained in the framework are -
* that acquired land and other private assets must be compensated at replacement
cost. An independent district level value assessment committee will do the
determination of the replacement or "actual market price".  If needed the
committee will co-opt eminent valuers and NGO representatives.
31



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis            March 11, 2002
* that support must be given to regain livelihoods if earning capacity is reduced as a
result of the land acquisition.
* Incase of public buildings GOG will provide a certificate to the Bank that it is free
of squatters.
4.2.2 Indigenous People (IPs).
There are no Indigenous people in the affected areas, but in the specific context of this
project IDA's operational directives 4.20 on indigenous people will be applied to tribals
in the affected areas.
The project has collected information about the tribal people in the affected areas. The
total population in the 11 districts funded by the Word Bank is 19452923 and the total
S.T population in these villages is 317471 (1.6%). The districts worst affected by the
earthquake are Kutch, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Surendranagar and Patan. The total population
in these districts is 8711637 and the affected tribal population is 258459(2.9%) The
districts that are severely affected are the non-tribal districts. The eight districts notified
by GOI as Scheduled areas for tribal people in Gujarat State are Sabarkanta, Panchmahal,
Vadodara, Bharuch, Surat, Dangs, Valsad, and Navsari. These districts were not
adversely affected, and no district other than Surat is covered by Bank funding.
The reconstruction program reaches all the affected villages having tribal population. The
members of the tribal families would receive all the benefits commensurate with other
communities. One of the basic premises of the reconstruction effort is that there is no
discrimination in the allocation of benefits on the basis of religion, caste, tribe or any
other factor beyond variations in losses suffered on account of the earthquake. The
GOG's Policy of paying housing compensation on the basis of actual damage
assessments provides for equitable treatment of vulnerable groups including Scheduled
tribes. No instance of discrimination of Tribal people has been brought to light by the
media, research studies or the ongoing social needs and assessment studies. During this
project the GOG would put the following decision process in place for the preparation of
Indigenous People's Development Plans (IPDPs) which would be referred here after as
Tribal development Plans (TDPs) (a) The continuing social assessments would identify
and document the presence of tribal people among the earthquake affected, and whether
and how they are able to assert their interests and rights within the project, (b) it would
also monitor the access of this tribal people to project benefits and impacts. In the event
that the project has significant (expected or actual) positive or negative impacts on the
distinctive cultural or economic way of life of the tribal people, and /or if they were not
able to assert their rights an TDP would be prepared, (c) The TDP would be based on the
informed participation of the tribal people and would present strategies to address their
concerns. If adverse impacts are anticipated, the TDP would determine measures to avoid
or mitigate harn.
The following decision process would be used for area specific development plans for
Tribal people.
1. Are Tribal Peoples (I) as defined under local laws or in other ways present in the
village? Do these people exhibit any of the following identifying characteristics?
32



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis            March 11, 2002
a) Close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas.
b) Self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group.
c) An Indigenous language, often different from the national language.
d) Presence of customary social and political institutions.
e) Primarily subsistence-oriented production.
2. Are three significant impacts (positive or negative) on distinctive cultural or economic
ways of life of Tribals- in short are they affected in any way as a tribal rather than
simply as individuals (as is the case with resettlement). If the answer to this question
is NO, then the social assessment needs to document whether the affected tribals are
able to assert their interest and rights. If they are able to, then after documenting how
will do so, no further action is needed.
3. Where tribals are not able to assert their interests and rights, or where significant
impacts - positive or negative - on their distinctive cultural or economic ways of life
are possible or expected, then the social assessment needs to prepare an TDP
following Annex.3. This TDP will present strategies for addressing the issues
pertaining to indigenous peoples and must be based on informed participation.
Wherever adverse impacts are anticipated, the social assessment will include studies
to determine measures to avoid or mitigate harm and prepares an Tribal Development
Plan (TDP) in consultation with the affected indigenous groups.
A two-tier grievance redressal mechanism at the village, and district is in position. The
District Judge has been declared as the ombudsman for the purpose of hearing complaints
from public and decided the cases on merit and directed the authorities. The Commission
of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes is also empowered to hear any complaint regarding
any discrimination and enquire and direct the authorities concerned for appropriate
action.
Under the Bombay Land Revenue Code (Section 73-AA) restrictions have been imposed
on the transfer of land owned by a tribal without the permission of the appropriate
authority. The restriction is on the transfer of land to non-tribal as well as other tribal.
In the case of transfer from one tribal to another the District Panchayat or Collector is the
competent authority for granting permission and in the case of transfer from one tribal to
non tribal the permission of the state government is required. In case of transfer of land
from one tribal to another tribal with out permission the land will be restored back to the
tribal who is the original owner of the land. In case of transfer from one tribal to non
tribal the land will be vested with the government and the same will be given back to the
original owner of the land, and if he is not willing to take it back it will be allotted to
another tribal. The non-tribal purchaser will be fined with a sum of money three times the
cost of the land.
The existing laws would ensure that the land belonging to a tribal is not sold or given to
any other person. As the relocations are on Government land there will not any instance
of acquisition of land of a tribal member in the project.
33



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
If any Tribal member is aggrieved he can complain to the district or village level
grievance redressal committees constituted for the reconstruction program. He can also
approach the district judge who has been declared as the ombudsman for the purpose of
hearing complaints from the affected. The commission for Scheduled castes and tribes is
also competent to hear any complaints and direct the authorities to take appropriate
remedial actions.
The Social Management Plan listing possible social issues and mitigation measures is
presented in Table 3.
34



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                                         March 11, 2002
Table 3: SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
(1)                                         (2)                                                       (3)                                              (4)
Possible Social Issues                   Processes Already Applied                       Mitigation and Other Proposed Measures                       Monitoring Strategy &
Contingency Measures
Lack    of   community    *   The GOG adopted transparent outreach measures early in its  *  A Communications strategy has been developed to ensure  *  The continuous Social Assessment will
participation  in  policy-    reconstruction efforts to ensure that earthquake affected  continued information flows during the project period.   examine the extent to which affected
making,   planning  and       people, NGOs and functionaries in the affected areas (the  *  The Community Participation component of the project  people obtain relevant information,
implementation  of  the       key stakeholders in the rebuilding process) could participate  includes:                                            participate in the program in order to
project                       in policy decisions on the assistance packages, in damage                                                           obtain their due share of benefits and
assessment surveys, and in the implementation of relief and  =: information, communication and education activities;  access to services, to retum to normal
rehabilitation measures. Information was provided widely  =, establishment of village-level sub-centers to build    life, recover social capital, and develop
through a variety of means including the media, govemment    capacity for shock-resistant construction, and to form  disaster preparedness.
and  non-govemmental  institutions, and  interpersonal       self-help groups that would monitor the program and be
channels. Consultation processes involved - and continue     responsible for disaster preparedness in the future;
through - public meetings held by officials, village-level
meetings involving panchayats and the public, workshops   => strengthening of local govemment mechanisms to
with NGOs and other private sector organizations, public     undertake social audit and ensure transparency;
announcements and requests for feedback, the GSDMA        => gender sensitization workshops for all functionaries
website, and grievance redressal mechanisms set up at        involved and in communities;
village, taluka and district levels.
Public participation  in decision-making and program      => a community-based   disaster preparedness program
implementation has becii high by any standards.              covering the identification of risks, vulnerable areas and
people; formulation of plans; training of search and
rescue, relief, warning, evacuation, and medical
assistance teams; local waming systems and emergency
response equipment; village drills, and so on.
Inequitable  access  of   *   Financial assistance is being provided by the GoG to all  *  Damage assessment and compensation lists will be made  *  GSDMA  monitors disbursement of
Scheduled Tribes, Women       earthquake effected persons                               publicly available in every village for individuals to check  finances through field visits, surprise
and   other   Vulnerable  *   The amounts were decided on the basis of actual assessment  their own and others compensation amounts. (Note: This is  checks, hearings and account audits.
Groups to Housing Finance     of damage to houses, regardless of location, social or    both equity and a transparency mechanism).                The   district  grievance  redressal
and Technical Assistance      economic status                                      *    NGOs will identify and report problems in their operational  committees and  the district judge
(especially for earthquake
resistant    construction  *  The assistance is being distributed by banks, overseen by the  areas to be designated by the GSDMA.                 (Ombudsman) nomated by the State
technology)                   Revenue Department and other local officials         *    A Continuous SA will also identify related risks and      High court look into complaints.
*   Information on financial packages has been distributed    problems, and people's suggested solutions for consideration  *  The  Social  Assessment  will
widely                                                    by GSDMA and other concemed authorities.                  continuously   monitor     whether
In the   event of any    complaint repor-ted  regarding    vulnerable  groups  have  received
*   Technical assistance is being  provided  through  the                                                               benefits and their impacts.
following:                                                compensation  or technical assistance, it would  be
investigated and, if verified, appropriate compensation will  *  The  SC/ST  Commission   (at
=> Model demonstration of earthquake resistant houses    be paid or TA mechanisms strengthened.                     Central/State levels) would review any
=   Encouragement (especially through memorandum of                                                                 case of complaints/exclusion of these
understanding with individual beneficiaries) to adopt                                                           groups.
earthquake resistant technology
35



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                                           March 11, 2002
(1)                                         (2)                                                        (3)                                               (4)
Possible Social Issues                   Processes Already Applied                         Mitigation and Other Proposed Measures                       Monitoring Strategy &
Contingency Measures
=> Engineers in every village providing technical assistance
and quality-control checks on on-going construction
*   A Grievance Redressal mechanism has been set up by the
GOG   in thc fonn of Village and District Redressal
Committees.  The District Judge has been declared as
Ombudsman to hear grievances and complaints. Aggrieved
persons can apply directly to any of the three mechanisms.
*   Social assessments (SAs) are identifying areas/groups that
are not receiving due financial and technical assistance
and/or are not aware of assistance due.
* Inequitable access to public  *  Public services are being restored to pre-earthquake levels.  *  Panchayats at village, taluka and district levels will monitor  *  The departments of health, education,
services, including water,    In some cases, including the areas where public services   project activities, particularly the availability and reach of  water supply, etc. monitor progress in
sanitation,  health  and       were absent or inadequate, they are being upgraded.       public services.                                           the reconstruction  of facilities and
education on account of   *    Govemnment noms (which are based on size of population in  *  The district collector and other district level officers will  provision of services
> Problems in    housing       a village) mitigate bias based on ethnic or socio-economic  receive and redress complaints.                      *   The SA will monitor the access of
reconstruction             status.                                               *    In the event of inequitable access to the public services  earthquake affected people, especially
> Problems    in  public                                                                 proposed to be provided through the project, and due to    vulnerable groups, to services and their
building reconstruction                                                              service related factors, the GOG will take steps to correct  it-opacts.
problems
Problems of discrimination  *  The village assembly passes a resolution for (partial or  *  For the partially relocating villages where Bank finance may  *  The continuous SA will identify all
arising  from   primary        whole) relocation of the village. Mechanisms have been   be involved, the GSDMA will consult the Bank on any case of  cases of partial village relocation and
displacement   due   to       instituted for inspection of proposed relocation sites and  25  families or more being relocated, specifying  the     monitor the needs of the people as well
relocation of villages/towns   public agreement to these: the new sites are examined by  arrangements for obtaining the land on which they would    as the project impact on them. It will
(wholly or partially) on       government surveyors (technical) to ensure that housing and  relocate. A full resettlement action plan (RAP) would be  also make suggestions to the GSDMA
account of the earthquake      infrastructure needs can be met; village elders and      prepared in such cases.                                     for follow-up  activities  based  on
Panchayats are brought to the altemative sites to inspect and  *  The RAP will:                                      people's suggestions.
agree/disagree to the sites.
In the event of an.y disagreement, a grievance redressal .       Assess who is being relocated and to where, and ensure
pr.cess is in place to ensure democratic decision making and  they are consulted on relevant matters.         The GSDMA will take relevant steps to
process is in place to ensure democratic decision making and                                                     ensure full anid effective implementation of
protect the rights of individuals or groups.              => Assess the adequacy of their access to livelihoods, social  these suggestions.
*   In all cases where villages are being wholly relocated,        services and social networks
activities will be implemented through a partnership between  => Examine whether there is secondary displacement from
the GoG, NGOs and other donor agencies. Bank finances         land/property or livelihood, and mitigate the impacts of
will not be utilized for any aspect of relocation of whole    these.
villages.                                             *  The partial relocation of villages will be a participatory
*   Bank finances may be utilized for housing or public       process, wherein the displaced people will be able to exercise
infrastructure in the case of partially relocated villages.  their choice and options for site and infrastructure. All new
site selection will be based on participatory and transparent
mechanisms.
36



GEERP - Report on Enviroml-ental and Social Analysis                                           March 11, 2002
(1)                                          (2)                                                         (3)                                                (4)
Possible Social Issues                    Processes Already Applied                         Mitigation and Other Proposed Measures                        Monitoring Strategy &
Contingency Measures
*In the event of aily discri-iililatioii or- serious inequality arising,
corrective measures (e.g., re. sitthng) will be taken during the
irnplementation of the RAP, or as part of grievance redressal.
Sccondary   displacement       All relocation would bc on government lands, where     *  All cases of land purchase by thc govemment and its agencies,  * Te D)istrict Administration will report
due to land   acquisition      available, or on private lands that have been donated or  invoking the "negotiated settlement" clause of the relevant Act  to the GSDMA any cases of private
(including     negotiated      bought on the willing seller- willing buyer principle. No  will be considered equivalent to land acquisition.          land purchases or land acquisition. The
settlement under the Lpand     land acquisition (under the Land Acquisition Act) is      C ompensation and assistance will be provided for any case of  GSDMA will report such eases to the
Acquisition Act), possibly     expected,                                                 land acquisition, alid the RAP will be determined/prepared on  Bank on an ongoing basis, along with
occurring for:                 All debris and construction waste disposal sites will be on  the basis of the R&R Policy adopted by the Bank financed  the mitigation measures being taken.
z>  Relocation of villages     govemment lands only.                                     Gujarat State Highways Project. The said policy states that if  *  A Land Acquisition Assessment Data
Permanent       housing   *.All relocation (full or part) will be NGO managed.          private land is to be acquired,                               Shect (LAADS) will be prepared for
reeonstruction huiA RAP would be prepared by the agency selected to do                                                                             each and every case of land being
reconstruction  => A RPwoulbeprparedythegencyelectetodo obtained   for  the   purposes   of
=> Public       buildings                                                                                                                              construction under the project. In the
reconstruction                                                                             D I)istrict level Market Value Assessment Committees    case of public buildings the relevant
(which include if necessary NGO representatives) will   information will be provided to the
review the 'land acquisition award' or the 'negotiated  Bank before construction commences.
=. I)ehris disposal                                                                           price' and ascertain its appropriateness.           *    The social assessment will identify land
acquisition, wherever it may occur, and
investigate  whether   it   entailed
secondary displacement, and whether
the   necessary   measures    were
implemented.
Exclusion of Tribal People  *  Govemment policy holds that tribal People are entitled to the  *  Instructions will be issued to all District Collectors and  *  Tribal welfare officers from the Tribal
from    project   related      same benefits as others, including                        officials to ensure special attention to tribal villages and  Development Department will monitor
activities or benefits   *     Housing finance (on the basis of the damage assessment    people to ensure that housing compensation and other         inclusion/exclusion  of the ST people
carried out)                                                entitlements are provided.                                   and villages in the project.
Technical assistance                                   *  The on-going and planned consultation processes will ensure  *  SC/ST members of the District (Zilla)
participation oftribal people in planning and decision-making.  Panchayats will be part of all district
*     Access to public facilities and services               . A decision process has been agreed to determine situations in  level project-monitoring efforts.
In addition to the normal grievance redressal mechanisms  which a TDP will be prepared. The decision process covers:  *  The SA will pay particular attention to
available to all individuals and  groups, the  SC/ST      identification of tribal people, ability to assert their interests  STs, investigating whether they are
Commission (at Central/State levels) reviews any case of  and rights, project impacts on their cultural and economic way  obtaining  project  benefits  and
complaints/exclusion of these specific persons.           of life, identification of strategies to address potential negative  identifying their impacts .
impacts based on informed participation, and specific
mitigation measures to be implemented.
*  Project activities will ensure that common property resources
(CPRs) are protected against change of use.
37



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                 March 11, 2002
V.     DISCLOSURE
5.1 This environmental and social analysis report is being made available for review and
consultations at GSDMA office, Office of the District Collector, and District Library of all
earthquake affected districts of Gujarat. Additionally, the report is being posted in the
GSDMA website www.gsdma. org. Government of Gujarat (GOG), has also authorized the
Bank to disclose this report in accordance with the Bank's disclosure requirements.
References
1.   Report on Damages to Water resources projects in Gujarat State due to Eartlhquake Disaster
-2001, Evaluation and Estimation (Revised), Narmada, Water Resources and Water Supply
Department, Government of Gujarat, Gandhinagar, February 2001
2.   Report of the Commnittee on Estimation of groundwater Resource and Irrigation Potential in
Gujarat State (GIWRE - 1997), Narmada, Water Resources Department, Government of
Gujarat, Gandhinagar, October 1999
3.   Major, Medium & Minor River Valley Projects of Gujarat, Water resources Dept., Govt. of
Gujarat, 1989.
4.   Brief Note on Process of Selection of relocation site in Bhuj - Bhachau - Anjar - Rapar,
December 2001.
5.   Draft development Plan of Bhuj - Bhachau - Anjar - Rapar, Gujarat Urban Development
Company Limited, Gandhinagar, 2001
6.   Note on Environmental Assessment, Second Gujarat Earthquake Recovery & Disaster
Management Project, Sports, Youth and Cultural Activities Department, Government of
Gujarat, Gandhinagar No. PRV - 102001 - 941 -A, December 3, 2001
7.   Agricultural Profile of the Worst affected Talukas, Department of Agriculture, Government of
Gujarat, 2001
8.   Cropping Pattern in the Worst affected Talukas, Department. of Agriculture, Government of
Gujarat, 2001
9.   Estimated Loss to Farmers in the Worst Affected Talukas, Department of Agriculture,
Government of Gujarat, 2001
10. Revised Overall Implementation Plan for Rural water supply component of Gujarat
Earthquake Reconstruction & Rehabilitation project, GWSSB, Government of Gujarat,
Gandhinagar, November 22, 2001
11. Report on Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program - Rural Water Supply Sector, Gujarat
State Water Supply and Sewerage Board, Gandhinagar, December 3, 2001
12. Short Note on Removal of Debris from Bhuj City and Anjar City, Office & B. Division,
Government of Gujarat, Bhuj, 2001
13. Note on Removal of Debris from Bhachau and Rapar Towns, Office of the Chief Engineer,
Irrigation Department, Government of Gujarat, Gandhinagar, 2001
14. GOG Resolution on Constituting Dam Safety Review Panel of Experts for Kutch and
Saurashtra region, vide Reso. No. GEN - 102001/12-(8) -K6 dated December 4, 2001(DSRP
No. 1) and (DSRP No. 2)
15. Statement of Damages to Medium and Minor Irrigation Schemes of Kutch District required to
be restored in Phase - II, Dept of Irrigation, Government of Gujarat, 2001
16. Districtwise Irrigation Schemes affected by Earthquake, Dept. of Irrigation, Government of
Gujarat, 2001
17   The interim report SIA report submitted by MS university Baroda and GIDR Ahmedabad.
18. Mitigation Measures for Housing Sector (Disposal of Debris, Involuntary Resettlement and
Shifting of Indigenous people), Office of the Director of Relief, Dept of Revenue, Governmcnt
of Gujarat, Gandhinagar, 2001
38



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis             March 11, 2002
ANNEXURE 1
Earthquake - 2001
Prescribing the Assistance for
removing the debris of Kacha/ Pucca
Buildings collapsed totally due to
Earthquake
Regarding.........
GOVERNMENT OF GUJARAT
Revenue Department
Resolution No. ES5v162001-1751 (1) - S-6
Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar.
Ref:
1. Govt. Reso. Revenue Department No. CLS-162001 214 (6) S-3, dated 23/2/01.
2. Govt. Reso. Revenue Department No. CLS 162001 214 (6) S-3 dated 14/3/01.
3. Govt. Reso. Revenue Department No. CLS 162001 1208 S-3 dated 27/3/01.
Preamble
Due to Devastating Earthquake in the State on 26/1/2001 a large number of
Kucha/Pucca buildings and huts have collapsed totally. Beside the work of removing the
debris of totally collapsed buildings and huts through the Government Machinery as well
as through voluntary agencies and to enhance the work, it was decided to consider this
work as relief work by paying Rs.4000/- to each beneficiary for 50 man-days at the rate of
Rs.40/- per day per building. The situation of scarcity is over in the State from 30/9/2001.
77 works of removing debris have been completed as relief work till dote. In spilt of having
the useful and valuable things been removed by the affected people in rural as well as
Nagar Panchayat Areas; a very large amount of debris is yet to be removed. It is quite
necessary that it is completed at the earliest. The State Government after reconsidering the
same matter, has decided to take up the following works to remove the debris of the
buildings collapsed totally due to earthquake, from the rural area of Talukas and Nagar
Panchayat Areas which have been decided as severely affected areas.
Resolution:
Where the number of buildings totally collapsed in the taluka places declared as
severely affected by the earthquake; are 50 or more, the amount within the limit of Rs.
1500/- (Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred) per building shall be paid for removing the
debris of totally collapsed buildings and shifting the same at a proper place in such Villages
/ Towns.
(1) This assistance shall be available for those Villages/ Nagar Panchayat areas falling in the Talukas
declared as severely affected by having 50 or more Kucha / Pucca buildings collapsed totally.
39



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                           March 11, 2002
(2)  This scheme shall be implemented through Rural Educational construction conmmittees / voluntary
agencies in district where DPEP is in operation and shall be implemented through Gram / Village
Panchayats whcre it does not exist.
(3)  Every Village Panchayat / Rural Educational Construction Conmmittee / Voluntary Agency shall be
paid 90% of the expenditure totally admissible to them at 1st instance/stage for the implementation
of this scheme. The remaining amount will be paid after the work of removing the debris is over.
The assistance shall be paid within the limit of the expenditure incurred. The RECC/Voluntary
Agency/Village Panchayat shall have to fix the place and distance as to where such debris is to be
shifted. The entire debris of each building shall have to be removed irrespective of the mass of the
debris with the help of the amount prescribed. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
building concerned of RECC/Village Panchayats for any excessive amount to be incurred for the
same. The CommitteeNoluntary Agency/Village Panchayat shall have to issue a certificate of
Removal of debris.
(4) Each RECC/Voluntary Agency/Village Panchayat shall, at its own, decide the method of removing
the debris from their respective areas by hiring bricks, tractors, dumpers and shall also have to keep
the detailed records of the work done by the expenditure incurred and shall have to produce the
same for the purpose of audit when necessary.
(5)  The entire responsibility for implementation and monitoring shall rest in the District Collector/DDO
and they shall have to submit weekly report of the work done under this scheme to the Revenue
Department, Relief Commissioner and Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority.
(6)  The assistance under this scheme shall be available only for those Kachha/Pucca buildings which
are collapsed totally. Those, whose huts have been destroyed, shall not be entitled for such
assistance.
(7)  The entire debris shall have to be removed from the Village/Town areas by the RECC/Voluntary
Agency/Village Panchayat from the admissible assistance.
(8) This scheme shall be in force till 31/12/2001.
2.    The expenditure to this shall be met from budget provisions sanctioned under Major
Head 2245-Relief or Natural Calamities (2) flood and cyclones.
3.    By the time, the expenditure for this is sanctioned from      budgetary provisions for
Natural Calamities, the same shall be incurred by the district Collectors/DDOs from
the saving of allocation available with them in the value of GSDMA and the same
shall be adjusted/returned against the grant of GSDMA after it is demanded from the
districts concerned and sanctioned to them for the same purpose.
4.    These issues with the concurrence of Finance Department vide its note dated
20.11.2001 of this Department's File of even number.
By order and in the name of the Governor of Gujarat.
(C S Rajpal)
Under Secretary
Revenue Department
Gujarat State.
40



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
ANNEXURE -2
EXTRACT FROM SUMMARY RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
GUJARAT STATE HIGHWAYS PROJECT
A.2.1 Types of impacts to be addressed
The resettlement policy for this project addresses development-induced impact
caused by the project, and is not limited to physical relocation. Studies conducted
during preparation indicate that there are three broad categories of social and
economic impacts, which require mitigation in the project. They are:
* Loss of assets, such as loss of land and/or house of individuals;
* Loss of livelihood or income opportunities for individuals; and
* Collective imparts on communities/groups, such as loss of common property
* Resources.
The first two categories represent direct project impacts on an identified population.
The people likely to be affected by the project will be surveyed and registered, and
project monitoring and evaluation will compare long-tern impact against baseline
socio-economic data.  These surveys are complete for Phase I, and will be
undertaken for Phase II in co-ordination with designs and civil works.
The third category represents an indirect impact, where group members need not be
individually registered.  Gains and losses of a group-oriented nature are not
quantifiable in terms of impact on the individual. Mitigation and support
mechanisms will be collectively oriented, and the monitoring of these development
efforts will study the impact and benefits for the groups involved.
41



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                                March 11, 2002
A.2.2 SUMMARY ENTITLEMENT MATRIX
A summary entitlement matrix for the project is provided below.
Impacts & assistance criteria           Types of Project Affected People
Outside Public Right of Way             Inside Public Right of Way
Title Holders            Tenants2        Squatters & Encroachers3  Tenants
Vulnerable  Non          V       NV     Vulnerable    Non
vulnerable        lvulnerable                        _
LOSS OF LAND AND OTHER ASSETS                                Unit of Entitlement: Pr ect-affected Household (PAH)
I    Consultation, counseling, regarding  YES         YES          YES            YES           YES         YES
alternatives, and assistance in identifying
new sites and opportunities
2    Compensation for land at replacement  YES        YES          NO             NO            NO          NO
cost, plus allowances for fees or other
charges.
3    Advance notice to harvest non-perennial  YES     YES          YES             YES          YES         YES
crops, or compensation for lost standing
crops
4    Compensation for perennial crops and  YES        YES          NO              YESs/NOE     YES,/NOE    NO
trees, calculated as annual produce value
times remaining producing years
5    Replacement or compensation for      YES         YES          YES             YES          YES         YES
structures or other non-land assets
6    Right to salvage materials from existing  YES    YES           YES            YES          YES         YES
structures.
7    Inclusion in existing government housing  YES    NO           YESv/NON        YES          NO          NO
schemes.
8    Shifting assistance. (New housing must  YES      YES          YES            YES           YES         YES
be available before people are made to
move). 4
9    Option of moving to resettlement sites or  YES   YES          YES             YES          YES         YES
cluster, incorporating needs for shelter
and livelihood.
LOSS OF LIVELIHOOD                                   Unit of Entitlement: Project-affected Person (PAP)
10   Rehabilitation and assistance for lost or  YES   YES          YES            YES           YES         YES
diminished livelihood.
II   Additional support mechanisms for    YES         NO           YESViNON       YES           NO          NO
vulnerable groups in reestablishing or
enhancing livelihood.
12   Employment opportunities in connection  YES      YES          YES            YES           YES         YES
with project, to the extent possible.
LOSS OC COMMUNITY STRUCTURES/FACILITIES                       Unit of Entitlement: Project-Affected Group (PAG)
13   Restoration and improvement of common property resources, such as public water pumps, sanitation and drainage facilities, shrines and
temples, cultural heritage, etc.
14   Provision for women's needs, particularly related to location of sources of water and firewood. Social forestry programs may be
considered.
15   Provision for safe space and access for business purposes, local transport, and public use.
16   Safety measures for pedestrians, particularly children and other non-motorized transport.
17   Land scaling of community common areas in urban environments.
18   Provision of roadside areas.
I. This table will be completed with the numbers of verifying Eps to provide a summary for the R&BD
engineers who will be implementing the Resettlement Acton Plans.
2. Tenants can include Vulnerable (V) and Non-vulnerable (NV) groups. Where their entitlements differ
the following applies; NON = Non-vulnerable PAPs are not entitled. YESv= Vulnerable PAPs are
entitled.
3. Encroachers within the legal RoWs will not be eligible for any sort of compensation unless they are
land-less, in which case they will fall under the vulnerable group category. YES/NOS=squatters
YES/NOE=encroachers.
4. If PAPs are moved off the row within the two month notification period and permanent housing is not
available, temporary housing will be provided until their permanent structures are ready.
42



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis            March 11, 2002
A.2.3 SUPPORT PRINCIPLES FOR DIFFERENT CATEGORIES OF IMPACTS
Three types of entitlement as defined in the Entitlement Framework are summarized below.
A.2.3.1      Entitlements for Project-affected Households (PAHS)
These entitlements are to cover loss of land, structures and other assets, such as crops.
Included also are a shifting allowance, rights to salvage building materials and counseling
on alternative assistance.
The starting point is the Land Acquisition Act under which title-holders are awarded
compensation for property, structures and other assets, such as crops, surrendered to the
project. The Act requires compensation to be at market value. Sometimes the legal
compensation, paid by the government, is lower than the market value. For Phase I of this
project, the PCC has conducted a market value assessment to determine whether additional
assistance is necessary in order to reach real market value. In Phases II (and if warranted in
Phase I, also) an independent committee will assess a true market value. The proposed
committee is t be headed by the Collector for the respective districts. The other members of
the committee include engineers, and value assessors. Committees for the Phase I project
are being formed now. Consultation with the Revenue Department will also take place.
Additionally PAPs will be consulted on and will be informed of the method of determining
market value of assets.
Those not eligible for legal compcnsation for loss of their structures and assets may be
assisted by other support mechanisms, such as existing government housing schemes.
If a household asset is to be taken, the household, as a collective unit, is "entitled".
Compensation is given to the head of the household but, if it is new land or structures, both
the husband's and wife's names are to appear on the title.
There are nine general compensation actions for the PAH category.
1.   Consultation, counseling regarding alternatives, and assistance in identifying new
sites and opportunities.
PAPs are eligible to receive consultation and counseling with regard to their
entitlements and compensation. Additionally they will be shown all alternatives
available for relocation of their business or households. They will receive assistance
in identifying new sites for relocation and will be guided on what opportunities are
available to them for vocational and training opportunities.
2.    Compensation for land at replacement cost plus allowances for fees or other
charges.
Only titleholders are eligible for compensation under the Land Acquisition Act.
Some titleholders may be members of vulnerable groups and will thus be eligible
for other support mechanisms, Squatters, encroachers and tenants are not eligible
43



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis             March 11, 2002
for compensation for land. All fees, taxes and other charges incurred in the
relocation and re-establishment of EPs, will be met by the project.
3.   Advance notice to harvest non-perennial crops, or compensation for lost standing
crops.
PAPs will be given notice that the land on which their crops are planted will e used
by the project I the near future and that they must harvest their crops in time. If
standing crops cannot be harvested, EPs will be compensated for the loss.
4.    Compensation for perennial crops and trees will be calculated as capitalized value
ofproduction.
Only titleholders are eligible for recompense for perennial crops. The compensation
will be paid equivalent to the capitalized value, i.e., the net present value of all
future production, at a discount rate of 12% per annum.
5.   Replacement or compensation for structures or other non-land assets.
EPs are eligible for replacement or compensation for structures and other non-land
assets that are impacted by the proj ect.
6.   Right to salvage materials from existing structures.
EPs are eligible to salvage material from their existing structures and sites, with the
exception of trees.
7.   Inclusion in existing government housing schemes.
Only those EPs belonging to a vulnerable group, as defined by the project, are
eligible for the existing housing schemes for the weaker sections of society.
Vulnerable groups are defined as Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Women-
headed Households, and any EP with an average household income of less than
Rs.2000/months.
8.   Shifting assistance. (Note. Replacement housing must be available before people
are made to move.)
EPs are entitled to a shifting allowance to move their belongings. If their relocation
site is not ready for them, at the end of the two month notification period, the
project will make temporary arrangements until their permanent structures are
ready.
9.    Option of moving to resettlement sites, or clusters, incorporating needs for shelter
and livelihood.
EPs will be given the option of voluntary relocation to a site they have chosen
themselves wherever possible or a site chosen by the implementation team.
44



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
Whichever option the EP chooses he/she will receive as much support from the
EMU as is required to resettle and rehabilitate the household.
A.2.3.2     Entitlements for Project-affected People (PAPS)
Every household member over the age of 18 is eligible for assistance for loss of
livelihood. Thus there may be more than one person eligible in each household.
The project will provide rehabilitation and assistance for lost or diminished
livelihood for any individual impacted by the project.  Additional support
mechanisms will be made available to vulnerable groups to re-establish or enhance
their livelihood through existing government employment programmes.  If
available, employment associated with the project should be provided. Three
compensation actions are possible:
1.    Rehabilitation and assistance for lost or diminished livelihood.
EPs are eligible for help to regain their original levels of economic well being.
Vulnerable groups will receive the most-targeted support.  All EPs will be
counseled on options to improve their economic circumstances.
2.    Additional support mechanisms for vulnerable groups in re-establishing or
enhancing livelihood.
Members of vulnerable groups who are EPs will receive targeted support from the
EMU working with the project's implementation unit (PIU). Counseling on
alternatives, guidance on appropriate training programmes and advice on marketing
new products will be given.
3.    Employment opportunities connected with the project, to the extent possible.
Local people whose livelihood is impacted by the project will, where possible, be
offered jobs and training associated with the project. However these employment
opportunities are not necessarily limited to the entitlements necessary to restore EPs
livelihood but are additional opportunities. These people are not necessarily limited
to vulnerable groups, although they should be targeted. Also the project will
require some labour for construction, operation and maintenance. These jobs, at
least in the semi-skilled and unskilled category will be offered to EPs and PAPs
before other local people.  A clause has been incorporated in the contract
documents requiring contractors to give employment opportunities to local people,
as much as possible.
A.2..3.3    Entitlements for Project-Affected Groups (PAGS)
Community-based entitlements will be provided where possible, and targeted
especially at vulnerable and weaker groups. Six compensation actions are listed
under this category.
1.   Restoration and improvement of common property resources, such as public water
pumps, sanitation and drainagefacilities.
45



GEERP - Report on Enviromnental and Social Analysis               March 11, 2002
2.    Provision for women 's needs, particularly related to location of sources of water
andfirewood. Socialforestry programmes may be considered.
3.    Provision of safe space and access for business purposes, local transport, and public
use.
4.    Safety measures for pedestrians, particularly children, and other non-motorized
transport.
5.    Landscaping of communiity common areas in urban environments.
6.    Provision of roadside rest areas.
The project involves linear resettlement, where narrow strips of land and often only parts of
structures are affected along the road corridor. Large population clusters are therefore not
likely to be affected by the project. The preferred approach is to assist people to move
back and away from the Corridor of Impact, without having to move far away and
disrupting local networks and support mechanisms.
If it is found that clusters of people have to be relocated, the project will provide new
housing in a resettlement site approved by the affected people, with adequate infrastructure
and utilities. This will be provided as an option, although people may still choose self-
relocation if they wish. In that case, compensation and other support should be provided to
them, and the project should assist and facilitate their resettlement process.
If resettlement sites are developed as part of the project, the local "host population" will
also be consulted about their views and needs, and be given appropriate support to reduce
any negative impact caused by an influx of new people. The assistance will invariable be
in the nature of community based ones.
The issue of how to address squatters and encroachers has been built around the need to
maintain the road corridor clear and discourage speculative encroachments on the one
hand, and on the other hand the need to assist poor people whose assets and livelihoods
may be lost or disrupted by the project. For the purpose of this project squatters are
defined as the residential/business unit squatting entirely on the public land (The RoW);
whereas the encroachers are defined as the properties/uses spilling-over on the RoW. The
approach adopted for the project is based on the following considerations:
*  An early census survey will identify all potentially affected people, whether inside the Right
of Way or outside it in cases of likely realignments. A cut-off date will be determined for
each of the project roads. Opportunistic encroachments taking place after this date will not
be considered eligible for support under this project.
*  Encroachers, as distinct from the squatters, will not be given assistance. Targeted support
will be given to extremely vulnerable groups in this category in improving their livelihood.
*  The squatters will be given assistance to re-establish their homes and business elsewhere.
Targeted support will be given to vulnerable groups in improving their livelihood.
46



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
A.2.4 Target Support to Vulnerable Groups
Though census surveys and other studies, the project has determined who among the
affected population may be considered as vulnerable or at risk, or who are likely to be
excluded from the normal benefits of growth and development. For the purposes of this
project, vulnerable groups have been defined as:
* Scheduled castes and Scheduled tribe households;
* Women headed households; and,
* Households earning up to Rs.2000 per month.
Vulnerable groups will receive targeted support and special attention from the project, and
be provided with more options and support mechanisms than others. The issue of options
is discussed in the next section.
A.2.5 Options and Choices
The project will provide options and choices among different entitlements to the affected
population. As part of the project consultation and participation mechanisms, people will
be informed and consulted about the proj ect and its impacts, and their entitlements and
options. Affected population will be counseled so that they are able to make informed
choices among the options provided.  This will be done particularly in the case of
vulnerable group PAPs, who will be encouraged to choose those options of low risk.
By allowing people to choose among different options, the project will seek to make people
active participants in the development process, and to achieve greater acceptance of the
project.
A.2.6 The Summary Entitlement Matrix
The following table describes the Entitlement framework for the GSHP in a summary
matrix form. The entitlements are given by categories of loss and type of impact. Any
impact not falling within any of the categories mentioned will be dealt in the general spirit
of the Entitlement Framework. All PAPs GSHP are entitled to get consultation, counseling
regarding alternatives, and assistance in identifying new sites and/or opportunities for
relocation/rehabilitation.
47



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                            March 11, 2002
The Detailed Entitlement Matrix: Gujarat State Highways Project
Category    Type of Loss    Unit of       Entitlement                           Details
Entitlement
1A   Private     Agricultural     Household     Compensation     1.  If the replacement cost is more than the
Property    land and assets               at "replacement       compensation (at "market price" as determined
cost" or "actual      by the Land Acquisition Authority), then the
market value"         difference is to be paid by the project in the form
of 'assistance'. The "replacement cost" or "actual
market price" to be decided by an independent
agency.
2.  The Independent committee is to be headed by
the District Collector and comprising of the
District Agricultural officer and one members
out of the following:
* NGOs representative
* An eminent engineer
* An eminent Value assessor
3.  PAP's will be explained the process and their
views will be taken into consideration, while
determining the market value.
4.  If the residual plot(s) is (are) not viable (i.e. Less
than 0.4 ha in case of irrigated land and less than
1 ha in case of non-irrigated land), there are three
options to be given to the EP:
* The EP remains on the plot, and required amount of
land acquired; compensation and assistance paid
* Compensation and "assistance" are given for the
entire plot, but full ownership is not taken by the R
& BD: giving the EP's usufruct right on the
residual land, which may be transferred to the
R&BD with a notice of 6 months
* If the EP is from vulnerable group, compensation
for the entire land is by means of land-for-land, of
equal productive value
5.  In case of severance of agricultural land, an
additional grant of 10% of the amount paid for
land acquisition
6.  All fees, taxes and other charges, as applicable
under the relevant laws, incurred in the
relocation and resource establishment, are to be
bome by the project.
48



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                          March 11, 2002
Category     Type of      Unit of    Entitlement      Details
Loss      Entitlement
1 B                  Non-       Household   Compensation at   1. If the asset (part or full) in question is a
agricultural              "replacement         residential structure, then the replacement cost
land and                cost"  or actual      will be calculated as greater of the following,
assets                 market value          subject to "Gujarat Housing Board/ Gujarat Rural
Housing Board quality standards"
2. Cost of provision of residential structure of area
equivalent to that lost; or
3. Cost of provision of residential structure ( 6m2
per member of the household subject to a
minimum of 12m2
4. If the replacement cost is more than the
compensation (at "market price" as determined
by the Land Acquisition Authority), then the
difference is to be paid by the project in the form
of "assistance". The assistance will be calculated
as per detail 2 and 3 : Category 1A
5. Temporary    arrangements  until  permanent
structures are ready for occupation (or a grant of
Rs. 1800  to  cover   nine  month's  rental
accommodation)
6. The   project would   ensure  that there is
unreasonable delay in provision of the permanent
structures
7. A flat sum of Rs. 500 as shifting allowance
8. The tenants will receive the following:
9. The amount of deposit or advance payment paid
by the tenant to the landlord pro rated on the
basis of months remaining at the time of
expropriation, (this will be deducted from the
payment to the landlord)
10. A sum equal to six months rental in consideration
of disruption caused, and
11. Compensation for any structure the tenant has
erected on the property
12. Absence landlords will receive only the
Compensation at "replacement cost" or "actual
market value"
13. The owner-occupier will receive 5% more than
the absentee landlords
49



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                        March 11, 2002
Category    Type of     Unit of      Entitlement                            Details
Loss        Entitlement
2A    Livelihood    Wage       Individual   A grant equal to    1. This is valid for persons indirectly affected due to
earning                 six months lost         the employer being displaced on a case by case
income              basis
2. This will be calculated @ Rs. 1850 per month to
employee of a tenant and Rs. 2200 per month to
employee of a property owner
3. In individual cases, when the wage earner is the
only eamer in the household, than he will be
entitled to Rs.2500 per month
2B                Non-         Household   Notice to harvest    1. They are entitled to be given a notice substantially
perennial                 standing crops          4 months in advance
crops                                         2. Grant towards crop lost before harvest due to
forced relocation, equal to market value of crop
lost plus cost of replacement of seeds for the next
season's harvest
2C                Perennial    Household   Compensation at      1. Market value will be calculated as equal to the
crops such                " market value"         capitalised value
as fruit                                      2. Capitalised value is the net present value of
trees                                             production of such crops, at a discount rate of 12%
per annum
3A    Illegal use  Encroacher  Household   Will receive no      1. Encroachers will be notified a time in which to
of the   s                         compensation in         remove their assets, except trees; and harvest their
RoW                                general                 crops.
2. Will be assisted, case-by-case, according to
household income and existing assets (including
ownership of viable plot of land) in the case of
fulfilling both of the criteria below:
*   not owning the land adjacent to land upon
which he is encroaching, and
*   being a member of the vulnerable group
3B                 Squatters   Household    Low cost / free of   1. Plot or house will be given based on existing
charge house or          government schemes, either free of charge or at a
equivalent, and          low cost (as applicable to the EWS housing
training                 scheme)
2. When only 'site' or 'site and services' are given,
they will be assisted with the construction of a
residential / business unit
3. Entitlement details 1 and 2 above are to be
equivalent
4. Facilitation / access to training includes equivalent
income generating assistance
5. Shifting assistance of Rs. 500
6. Squatting for business is equivalent to kiosks,
Category 5B
50



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                         March 11, 2002
Category    Type of      Unit of      Entitlement                            Details
Loss         Entitlement
4A     Additional  Housing      Household    Additional           1. Includes  the  vulnerable  group  residential
Support to                            options only,           squatters also
vulnerable                            over and above       2. There are the following options, based on status
group                                the entitlements          or eligibility
in their respective      *  land-for-land (either government land or land
category; and               purchased) and a grant for building materials
free advisory              to construct a dwelling unit
service                  *  a plot of 15-20m2 and a house construction
loan of a maximum of Rs. 30,000 under the
EWS Housing scheme
*  a plot of 25-35m2 and a house construction
loan of a maximum of Rs. 100,000 under the
LIG Housing scheme
4B                 Primary      Household    Additional           1. The assistance will be equivalent to a lump-sum
source of                 assistance to            grant of Rs.2000/annum  for 3 years towards
income                    training or             income generating or vocational training option
equivalent               of the EP's choice
2. The training programmes will be offered in co-
ordination with all or any of the following:
*   Gujarat Mahila Arthik Vikas Nigam Ltd
*   Gujarat Scheduled Castes Economic
Development Corporation
*   Gujarat Tribal Development Corporation
*   TRYSEM, etc.
3. The training includes counseling to start a
suitable production or service activity
4. The money not spent for initial training
programme to be used to pay the cost setting up
of their new enterprise
5A     Shifting    Mobile and   Household    They are not         1. Ambulatory vendors licensed for fixed locations
Business    ambulatory                eligible for             will be considered as kiosks
vendors                   compensation or
"assistance"
5B                 Kiosks       Household    "Assistance" for     1. The Assistance will be paid as a flat sum of Rs.
business                 7500 per kiosk
disruption           2. Where numerous vendors are displaced, provision
of a "vendors' market", rent free for first six
months, thereafter they would be collectively
encouraged to purchase their market site.
3. For purpose of the above detail 2, only when 50
vendors are displaced, the provision will be in
force. However, the EMU will decide whether
such a "vendor's market" needs to be provided, in
a case-by-case basis, when the number of
displaced vendors is less than 50
51



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                        March 11, 2002
Category   Type         Unit of       Entitlement                          Details
of Loss      Entitlement
6B                Host          Community    Enhancement of      1. Such   compensation  / assistance  will be
communities                community              considered if the total number of resettled people
resources,             exceeds 200 or 10%     of host community's
Replacement of         population
likely to be        2. Compensation / assistance will be provided in the
depleted               form of provision of community, recreational,
resources              infrastructure facilities, and help in organising
income generating schemes, in consultation with
the host community
7       Disruption  Temporary   Household    Normal              1.  The contract document of the GSHP specifies
construction               disruption will        that (private and public) access is to be
related                    not compel             maintained and disruption minimized
impacts                    compensation       2.  Where for unforeseen circumstances severe
or "assistance"         disruption occurs and losses can be substantiated,
Assistance may          "assistance" will be considered for
be considered              .   business losses, and
on special cases           *   crop/seed losses
A.2. 7 Consultation andparticipation process
Experience indicates that involuntary resettlement generally gives rise to severe problems
for the affected population. These problems may be reduced if, as part of a resettlement
programme, people are properly informed and consulted about the project, their situation
and preferences, and allowed to make meaningful choices. This serves to reduce the
insecurity and opposition to the project which otherwise are likely to occur.
The project will therefore ensure that the affected population and other stakeholders are
informed, consulted in a meaningful way, and allowed to participate actively in the
development process. This will be done throughout the project, both during preparation,
implementation, and monitoring of project results and impacts.
The consultation will be conducted in a way which is appropriate for cultural, gender-
based, and other differences among the stakeholders. Where different groups or individual
have different views or opinions, particular emphasis will be put on the views and needs of
the more vulnerable groups.
The Resettlement Action Plan provided detailed information regarding the consultation
process. It describes information disclosure at different stages. The consultation process
planned for the project uses different types of consultation such as in-depth interviews,
focus group discussions, seminars and meetings. The consultation programme included,
among others, the following:
* Head of household likely to be impacted;
* Household members- men and women;
* Clusters of PAPs
52



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
* Villagers;
*  Village Panchayats;
*  Local voluntary organizations; and CBOs/NGOs; and,
* Government Agencies and Departments
A.2.8 Institutional Arrangements
A.2. 8.1 Overall Co-ordination
The Resettlement Action Plan contains detailed information about institutional and
ogranisational mechanisms required to implement the plan. A Project Implementation Unit
(PmT) will have overall responsibility for coordinating resettlement along with other project
components. The specific aspects of resettlement and rehabilitation will be implemented
and managed by the Environmental Management Unit (EMU). The EMU has been
established, and will be staffed with people with experience in resettlement and social
development. At the project level, a Task Force has been established provide overall
advice and guidance.
The project implementation requires coordination among different agencies, working in
different districts and jurisdictions. This presents particular challenges, and may pose a
risk of delays in implementation of the resettlement programme. The project will therefore
undertake training and orientation of responsible staff and agencies who will be involved in
implementing the plan. Such capacity building will be coordinated with the overall project
implementation schedule, to ensure that skilled staff is available to implement the
Resettlement Action Plan without causing delays to civil works.
While consultancy services will be procured and used in preparing and implementing this
project, an important objective is to develop local capacity to plan and implement
resettlement programmes. The project will therefore document how capacity building at
different levels is achieved, and how this project contributes to improved sector-level or
State-wide policies and practices related to resettlement in the State.
A. 2.8.2 District level Committees
District level Market Value Assessment Committees (See Attachment-A) will be
established in each district where the project will be active. These committees will
undertake the work required in that district, coordinating with EMU. The EMU, in itself
will have sub-units at the districts where the project will be active.
A. 2.8.3 Collaboration with local NGOs
Since much of the work related to resettlement involves social development and
community participation, the project will work with agencies experienced in this type of
work such as NGOs. NGOs or community based organizations with experience in this type
of work will be contracted by the project to work as a link between the project and the local
communities; to develop micro-level plans for resettlement and rehabilitation in
53



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
consultation with the affected populations; to assist PAPs in getting their entitlements and
benefits; and to help the project authorities in making arrangements for the smooth
relocation of the PAPs and their business.
A.2.8.4 Co-ordination with other Government Agencies
Various government agencies including the Revenue Department will have an important
role in the smooth functioning of the resettlement programme. The EMU will be
responsible for the overall coordination of this work. The resettlement programme is based
partly on provision of services and benefits normally provided by other development
programmes, such as vulnerable groups' housing schemes. Efforts will be made to
undertake this work in a co-ordinated fashion, to build upon services and programmes
already in place, where feasible, cost-sharing arrangements will be attempted.
A.2.8.5 Transparency and Accouintability
Through informnation campaign and other consultation mechanisms, the project will ensure
that there is full transparency and accountability regarding the resettlement programme and
people's entitlements. Payments of compensation, wherever possible, assistance and other
support mechanisms will be done in group/public settings to avoid any accusations of
impropriety.
A.2.9   Grievances Redressal
It is expected that through a participatory process and good compensation and support
mechanisms, acceptance of the project will be enhanced and complaints reduced. There
may nevertheless be individuals or groups who feel that they are not given adequate
support, or that their needs are not properly addressed.  The project has therefore
established a Grievance redressal process with local committees which will hear
complaints and facilitate solutions. This Grievance Redress process will be used to settle
disputes through mediation, and to reduce unnecessary litigation. The Resettlement Action
Plan describes the step-by-steps process for registering and addressing grievances
(Attachment B).
A.2.10    Monitoring and Evaluation
The Resettlement Action Plan contains indicators and benchmarks for achievement of the
objectives under the resettlement programme. These indicators and benchmarks are of
three kinds;
* Process indicators, indicating project inputs, expenditures, staff deployment, etc.
54



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis            March 11, 2002
* Output indicators, indicating results in terms of numbers of affected people
compensated and resettled, training held, credit disbursed, etc.
* Impact indicators, related to the longer term effect of the project on people's lives.
The benchmarks and indicators are limited in number, and combine quantitative and
qualitative types of data.
The first two types of indicators, related to process and immediate outputs and results, will
be monitored internally by the project. This information will serve to inform project
management about progress and results, and to adjust the work programme where
necessary if delays or problems arise.5 The results of this monitoring will be summarized
in reports which will be submitted to the project authorities and the World Bank on a
regular basis.
Provision will be made for participatory monitorin2 involvin2 the proiect affected
people and beneficiaries of the resettlement programme in assessing results and
impacts.
The project will also contract with an external agency such as an academic institute, which
will undertake independent evaluations at least twice during the lifetime of the project.
These evaluations will form input to a mid-term review, and to a project completion report.
Such independent evaluation will focus on assessing whether the overall objectives of the
project are being met, and will use the defined impact indicators as a basis for evaluation.
55



ATTACHMENT - A to ANNEXURE 2
(Ref. A.2.8.2)
MARKET VALUE ASSESSEMENT
MECHANISM
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT UNIT
ROADS AND BUIDINGS DEPARTMENT
GOVT. OF GUJARAT
56



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
MARKET VALUE ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE
1.    DEFINITIONS
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following words and expressions mean or
designate.
*  "Act" or "LAA" means The Land Acquisition Act, 1894, as amended by The
Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1984:
*  "District" means the District of                 ;
*  "Entitled Person" or "EP" means an individual, household or group recognized
by the EMU as being entitled to benefits pursuant to the Gujarat State Highways
Project Entitlement Policy endorsed by the Government of Gujarat in April
1998 by (specify instrument);
*  "Environmental Management Unit" or "EMU" means the body created by
(specify instrument);
*  Grievance Redressal Committee: or "GRC" means the (District) Grievance
Redressal Committee created by (specify instrument);
*  "Land" has the definition given to it by the Act namely: "Land" includes
benefits to arise out of land and things attached to the earth or permanently
fastened to anything attached to the earth.
* "Project" means the Gujarat State Highways Project.
* "Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the body created by (specify
instrument).
2. ESTABLISHMENT
There is hereby constituted a committee bearing the name of (District) Market Value
Assessment Committee (hereinafter referred to as the "MVAC").
3. COMPOSITION
The following persons shall be members of the MVAC:
57



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
*     The District Collector or his designated representative (hereinafter referred to as the
"DM");
*     The Executive Engineer, State Road Project, (hereinafter referred  to as the
EESRP");
*     The Land Acquisition Officer of the Department of Revenue (hereinafter referred to
as the "LAO";
*     The District Agricultural  Officer (hereinafter referred to as the "DAO");
*     A representative of a NGO familiar with the District, or an eminent Engineer
familiar with the District and licensed to practice therein as a property value-
assessor, or an eminent Value-Assessor familiar with the District and licensed to
practice therein appointed by the PIU upon the recommendation of the EMU
(hereinafter referred to as the "Independent Member" or the "IM").
4. TERM OF OFFICE
The members other than the IM shall serve as members for as long they occupy the office
in virtue of which they qualify to be members of the MVAC.
The IM shall serve as a member until replaced in writing by the PIU on the
recommendation of the EMU.
5. FUNCTIONS
The functions of the MVAC are:
(1)   to explain to EPs both individually and collectively the procedures for assessing
the market value of Land that is to be acquired pursuant to the LAA for the
purposes of the Project;
(2)   in consultation with its owners and other knowledgeable persons, to establish
the market value of Land that is to be acquired to the LAA for the purposes of
the Proj ect, and to recommend same to the EMU;
(3)   to submit monthly progress reports and a final report to the EMU;
(4)   at the request of the GRC, to reassess the market value of Land.
6. TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION
The MVAC shall have jurisdiction within the District.
58



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis        March 11, 2002
7.   OFFICIERS
The DM shall be the Chairman of the MVAC, and the EESRP shall be its
Secretary/Convener. The MVAC may appoint other officers as it sees fit from among its
members.
8.     START OF OPERATION
Notwithstanding its date of establishment, the MVAC shall not start to operate until the
Notification contemplated by Section 4 of the LAA has been published.
9.     OPERA TING PROCEDURE
9.1   Forthwith upon the start of operation of the MVAC, the EMU shall submit to it
drawings showing the Land that is to be acquired pursuant to the LAA for the
purposes of the Project, together with such other relevant information as may be in
the possession of the EMU;
9.2   Forthwith upon receipt of the drawings and other information referred to in Article
9.1, the MVAC shall hold a meeting at a time and place within the District
determined by the DM. The purpose of that meeting shall be (1) to decide upon the
methodology to be employed to measure the Land and any structures thereon, to
record other immoveable, such as trees and wells, and to determine the market value
of the land; and (2)to fix the date, time and place of a meeting with the concerned
EPs to explain the market value assessment procedure to them.
The MVAC shall also issue a letter giving the occupier of each building or enclosed
court or garden attached to a dwelling house that is to be acquired pursuant to the
LAA for the purposes of the Project, at least eight days' notice of the MVAC's
intention to enter therein for the purpose of assessing its market value, and giving
said persons at least seven days' notice of the date, time and place of the meeting
referred to at (2) above.
9.3   The MVAC shall hold the meeting contemplated in Article 10.2 on the date  and at
the time and place indicated in the letter referred to in Article 10.2. It shall record
59



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
the name and address of each person present thereof and shall prepare a summary of
its proceedings.
9.4   The MVAC shall visit each piece of Land that is to be acquired pursuant to the LAA
for the purposes of the Project and shall take such measurements and collect such
other information as it considers necessary to establish the market value thereof.
9.5   Within a reasonable delay following its first meeting, the MVAC shall hold its
second meeting on the date and at the time and place within the District determined
by the DM. The purpose of that meeting shall be to review the progress of the
market value assessment procedure and, if necessary, to make adjustments thereto,
and to consider such other matters as the members consider relevant.
9.6   Within a reasonable delay following its second meeting, the MVAC shall hold its
third meeting on the date and at the time and place within the District determined by
the DM. The purpose of that meeting shall be to fix the market value of each piece
of Land that is to be acquired to the LAA for the purposes of the Project. The
MVAC's assessment shall be submitted to the EMU in the form of a
recommendation.
9.7   Forthwith upon being requested to do so by the GRC using its Form 7, the MVAC
shall re-assess the market value of any piece of Land, or part therefore, that is to be
acquired pursuant to the LAA for the purposes of the Project. If necessary, it shall
re-measure the land and shall confirm its characteristics and those of any
immovable situated on it. The MVAC shall submit its re-assessment to the GRC and
shall send a copy thereof to the EMU.
10.        PROFRESS AND FINAL REPORTS
After each of the meetings referred to in Article 10, the EESRP shall submit a written
progress report to the EMU.
11.         DELAY
60



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
The MVAC shall make its best efforts to complete its mandate within one hundred (100)
days of its start of operation so as to ensure that construction can begin in a timely manner.
If at any time the MVAC has reason to believe that it will not be able to accomplish the
tasks contemplated at Articles 10.2 to 10.7 within approximately one hundred (100) days, it
shall immediately inform the EMU, giving the reason for such apprehended delay.
12.       QUORUM
The quorum for meetings of the MVAC is three (3) members or, where permitted their
proxies physically present, who must include the EESRP and the IM.
13.         PROXIES
All members except the IM may be represented by a proxy, who must be designated in
writing. A proxy has all the rights and responsibilities of the member whom he replaces.
14.          DECISION-MAKING
All decisions shall be made by majority vote. The members present at a meeting shall each
have one vote. A member who abstains from voting on a motion shall be deemed to have
voted in favour of that motion. In the case of a tied vote, the IM shall have a second and
deciding vote.
15.       CONFLICTS INTEREST
15.1  A member shall disclose to the MVAC any pecuniary interest that he has in any
matter before the MVAC and shall not take part in any deliberations of the MVAC
on that matter and shall not vote on that matter.
15.2  Where a disagreement arises as to whether a member has a pecuniary interest in a
matter before the MVAC, the members shall decide by vote whether the member
has such an interest, and the member in question may not take part in that vote.
15.3  Where the members decide that a member has a pecuniary interest in a matter
before the MVAC, the member in question shall not take part in the deliberations of
the MVAC on that matter or vote on that matter.
61



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
15.4  Where the chairman is prohibited from taking part in the deliberations of the
MVAC, he may nevertheless continue to act as the chairman of the meeting.
16.       CONFIDENTIALITY
16.1  The MVAC may in the course of its duties come into knowledge of confidential
information not normally divulged to member of the public. Upon assuming office
as a member, and as a condition of assuming such office, a member shall swear that
he will keep confidential any confidential information divulged to him in his
capacity as a mcmber, unless a member has already sworn an oath to that effect as a
condition of the employment in virtue of which he qualifies to be a member of the
MVAC.
1 7.        RULES OF PROCEDURE
The MVAC may establish such rules of procedure for its meetings and functioning as it
may decide, provided that they are not inconsistent with the provision
62



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis  March 11, 2002
ATTACHMENT B to ANNEXURE 2
(Refer A.2.8)
Gujarat State Highways Project
(A WORLD BANK PROJECT)
Grievance Redressal
Mechanism
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT UNIT
ROADS AND BUILDINGS DEPARTMENT
GOVT. OF GUJARAT
63



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL PROCEDURE
1. DEFINITIONS
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following words and expressions mean or
designate:
*  "Claimant" means a person who files a grievance with the Grievance Redressal
Committee in his own behalf or in the behalf of a household or a group of which he
is the authorized representative, or a person who, not being an Entitled Person,
submits a claim to the Grievance Redressal Committee to be recognized as an
Entitled Person.
*  "Corridor" means one of the corridors, numbered respectively 01, 02, 03, 05, 06,
08, 09, 10, 12, 13, 15, 17, 18, 21, 22, 26, 27, and 28, into which the Gujarat State
Highways Project has been divided;
*  "District" means the District of
*  "Entitled Person" or "EP" means an individual, household or group recognized by
the EMU as being entitled to benefits pursuant to the Entitlement Policy;
* "Entitlement Policy" means the Entitlement Policy approved by the Government of
Gujarat by [specify instrument] on [date];
*  "Environmental Management Unit" or "EMU" means the body created by [specify
instrument];
*  "Market Value Assessment Committee" or "MVAC" means the body created by
[specify instrument; [the reference must be to the MVAC for the District];
* "Project Implementation Unit" or "PIU" means the body created by [specify
instrument]
2. ESTABLISHMENT
There is hereby constituted a committee bearing the name of [District] Grievance
Redressal Committee (hereinafter the "GRC")
3. MEMBERSHIP
The following persons are members of the GRC:
* The District Collector or his designated representative, who must hold at least the
rank of Assistant District Collector (hereinafter the "DM");
64



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
* The District Development Officer of the Department If Revenue (hereinafter the
"'DDO");
* The Executive Engineer, State Road Project (hereinafter the "EESRP");
* The Special Land Acquisition Officer of the Department of Revenue for the District
(hereinafter the "SLAO");
* The Executive Engineer responsible for the Corridor that traverses the District
(hereinafter the "EEC");
* The Project Manager of the Scheduled Tribes Development Corporation for the
District in the case of a District that falls within a Tribal Sub-plan Area (hereinafter
the "PMSTDC");
* A representative of a non-government organization appointed in writing by the
Secretary of the Roads and Buildings Department (hereinafter the "NGO
Member");
* The Social Sciences Technical Specialist of the EMU (hereinafter the "SSTS").
4. OFFICERS
The DM shall be the Chairman of the GRC, and the EESRP shall be its Secretary
and Convener. The GRC may appoint such other officers as it sees fit from among
its members.
5. TERM OF OFFICE OF MEMBERS
Subject to Article 20, with the exception of the NGO Member, the members shall
hold office for as long as they occupy the position in virtue of which they qualify to
be a member of the GRC.
Subject to Article 20, the NGO Member shall hold office until replaced in writing
by the Secretary of the Roads and Buildings Department.
6. TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION
The territorial jurisdiction of the GRC shall be the District.
7. FUNCTIONS
The functions of the GRC are:
(1)   to publicize within the District the list of EPs and the functioning of the
grievance redressal procedure established hereby;
(2)   to evaluate grievances from EPs concerning the application to them of the
Entitlement Policy, including decisions of the MVAC;
65



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
(3)   to recommend to the EMU or the PIU, as the case may be, solutions to such
grievances from EPs;
(4)   to communicate the decisions of the EMU or the PIU, as the case may be, to
Claimants and, where applicable, to the MVAC;
(5)   to hear appeals from persons, households or groups who, not being EPs,
believe that they are qualified to be recognized as EPs, and to communicate
the decision of the EMU in that regard to the Claimants;
(6)   to ensure that all notices, forms, and other documentation required by
Claimants are made available Gujarati.
8. ELIGIBILITY TO FILE A GRIEVANCE
In the case of an individual, the grievance must be filed by said individual in
person. In the case of a household, the grievance may be filed only the head of that
household. In the case of a group, only the head of the village Panchayat may file
the grievance. The GRC may request proof that a person filling a claim on behalf
of a household or group is recognized by the members of said household or group
as being its head.
9. PUBLICIZING OF PROCEDURE AND GRC
Upon its establishment, the GRC shall: (1) cause to be distributed to each EP a
notice substantially in the form appended hereto as Notice 1; (2) cause to be
displayed in the office of the EMU in the District, the office of the Zilla Panchayat,
the office of each Gram Panchayat in the District, and at such other public places in
the District as it determines the list of EPs within the District prepared by the EMU,
accompanied by a notice substantially in the form appended hereto as Notice 2; (3)
take such other steps as it considers useful to publicize the existence and operation
of the GRC and the grievance redressal procedure.
10. PROCEDURE FOR HEARING COMPLAINTS
10.1 Grievances from Entitled Persons
10.1.1 The Claimant shall present himself at the District office of the EMU and shall
complete Part One of Form 1.
10.1.2 The representative of the EMU shall thereupon give a copy of Form 2, to the
Claimant and shall sign the attestation at Part Two of form 1.
10.1.3 If the Claimant indicated on Form 1 that he requests the assistance of the NGO
Member to complete Form 2, the representative of the EMU shall deliver a copy of
said Form 1 to the NGO Member and shall sign the attestation at Part Three of said
Form 1.
66



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
10.1.4 Upon receipt of said Form 1, the NGO Member shall meet with the Claimant and
shall assist him to complete Part One of Form 2. The NGO Member shall then sign
the attestation at Part Four of Form 2. The NGO Member shall give one signed
copy of Form 2 to the Claimant and shall keep One signed copy.
10.1.5 Claimants who do not request the assistance of the NGO Member to complete Form
2 shall complete and sign Part One of Form 2 and shall return it to the District
office of the EMU. Upon receipt thereof, the representative of the EMU shall sign
the attestation at Part Two of Form 2 and shall give a signed copy of said Form 2 to
the Claimant in person.
10.1.6 Upon receipt of the completed Form 2 from the Claimant, the representative of the
EMU shall mail or give in person a copy thereof to the NGO Member and shall sign
the attestation at Part Three thereof.
10.1.7 Upon receipt of a completed Form 2 from the representative of the EMI, the NGO
Member shall check whether Part One has been correctly filled out. If it has not
been correctly filled out, the NGO Member shall, as soon as possible after receipt
thereof, meet with the Claimant and shall ensure that any errors or omissions are
rectified. The NGO Member shall then sign the attestation at Part Four of Form 2.
The NGO Member shall give a signed copy of Form 2 to the Claimant and shall
keep a signed copy.
10.1.8 The NGO Member shall number the Applications for Redressal of Grievance in the
chronological order in which they are correctly filled out by inserting the
appropriate number at Line 9 of Form 2.
10.1.9 The NGO Member shall check that the information in Part One of Form 2 is correct
and shall draft a resolution reflecting his recommended redressal of the grievance,
which he shall insert at Line 10 of Form 2. He shall thereupon sign Part Five of
Form 2 and shall forward Form 2 to the Secretary/Convener of the GRC.
10.1.10 The Secretary/Convener shall add a discussion of the said grievance and the
redressal recommended by the NGO Member to the agenda of the next meeting of
the GRC. If, however, the next meeting of the GRC is to be held within six (6)
days of the receipt by the Secretary/Convener of the relevant Forn 2, the
Secretary/Convener shall add the discussion to the agenda of the next following
meeting of the GRC.
10.1.11 The NGO Member shall advise the Claimant of the time and place at which the
GRC will meet to consider his grievance and shall inform the Claimant of his right
to be present and to make representations at that part of said meeting at which his
grievance is considered. To that effect, the Secretary/Convener shall complete Part
One of Form 3, and the NGO Member shall personally deliver it to the Claimant at
least three (3) days prior to the date of the meeting at which the said grievance and
recommended redressal are scheduled to be considered by the GRC. The Claimant
shall sign the acknowledgement of receipt at Part Two of said Form 3.
67



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
10.1.12 If the Claimant is not present at the meeting at which his grievance is to be
considered, consideration of his grievance shall be deferred to the next following
meeting of the GRC. If the Claimant is not present at said next following meeting
of the GRC, he shall forfeit his right to make representations with respect to his
grievance, and the GRC shall be free consider his grievance at its next following
meeting.
10.1.13 The GRC shall agree upon a recommendation to the EMU respecting the
disposition of each grievance using the voting procedure established at Article 13
and 14 hereof. Said recommendation shall be recorded at Part Six of Form 2, which
shall be signed by the DM.
10.1.14 The NGO Member shall personally deliver said Form to the District office of the
EMU as soon as possible after the date of the recommendation and shall cause the
representative of the EMU to sign the acknowledgement of receipt at Part Seven
thereof
10.1.15 If, within seven (7) days of the date indicated in the acknowledgement of receipt at
Part Seven of Form 2, the EMU accepts the recommendation of the GRC, it shall so
inform the GRC by completing Part Eight of Form 2 and submitting it to the GRC.
10.1.16 The GRC shall so inform the Claimant by completing Form 4. The NGO Member
shall personally deliver a copy of said Form 4 to the Claimant as soon as possible
and shall cause the Claimant to sign the acknowledgement of receipt thereon. The
Secretary/Convener shall send a copy of said Form 4 signed by the Claimant to the
EMU for execution of said decision. In the case of a grievance concerning a
decision of the MVAC, the Secretary/Convener shall also send a copy of said Form
4 signed by the Claimant to the MVAC for purposes of information.
10.1.17 If, within seven (7) days of the date indicated on the acknowledgement of receipt at
Part Seven of Form 2, the EMU so directly by completing and signing Part Eight of
Form 2, the GRC shall, forthwith upon receipt of the EMU's decision, request the
PIU to dispose of the grievance by completing Part Nine of Form 2. The NGO
Member shall personally deliver said Form 2 to the PIU and shall cause the
representative of the PIU to sign the acknowledgement of receipt at Part Nine
thereof.
10.1.18 If, upon the expiration of seven (7) days following the date indicated on the
acknowledgement of receipt at Part Seven of Forn 2, the EMU has not
communicated its decision to the GRC by completing Part Eight of Form 2, the
EMU shall be deemed to have endorsed the recommendation of the GRC. The
GRC shall so inform the Claimant by completing form 4. The NGO Member shall
personally deliver a copy of said Form 4 to the Claimants as soon as possible after
the date of the decision and shall cause the Claimant to sign the acknowledgement
of receipt thereon. The Secretary/Convener shall send a copy of said Form 4 signed
by the Claimant to the EMU for execution of said decision. In the case of grievance
concerning a decision of the MVAC, a copy of said Form 4 shall be sent to the
MVAC for purposes of information.
68



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis           March 11, 2002
10.1.19 If, within fifteen (15) days of the date indicated in the acknowledgement of receipt
at Part Nine of Form 2, the PIU communicates its decision to the GRC by
completing Part Ten of Form 2, the GRC shall so inform the Claimant by
completing form 4. The NGO Member shall personally deliver a copy of said form
4 to the Claimant and shall cause the Claimant to sign the acknowledgement of
receipt thereon. The Secretary/Convener shall send a copy of said Form 4 signed
by the Claimant to the EMU for execution of said decision. In the case of a
grievance concerning a decision of MVAC, a copy of said Form 4 shall be sent to
the MVAC for purposes of information.
10.1.20 If, upon the expiration of fifteen (15) days of the date indicated in the
acknowledgement of receipt at Part Nine of Form 2, the PIU has not communicated
its decision to the GRC, the PrU shall be deemed to have endorsed the
recommendation of the GRC.    The GRC shall so inform the Claimant by
completing Form 4. The NGO Member shall personally deliver a copy of said
Form 4 to the Claimant as soon as possible after the date of the decision and shall
cause the Claimant to sign the acknowledgement of receipt thereon.  The
Secretary/Convener shall send a copy of said Form 4 signed by the Claimant to the
EMU for execution of said decision. In the case of a grievance concerning a
decision of the MVAC, the Secretary/Convener shall also send a copy of said Form
4 signed by the Claimant to the MVAC for purposes of information.
10.2 Grievances from Other Persons
10.2.1 A person whose name does not appear on the list of EPs displayed pursuant to
Article 9.1 and who believes that he should be recognized as an EP shall present
himself at the District office of the EMU and shall complete Part One of Form 5.
10.2.2 The representative of the EMU shall thereupon give a copy of Form 6 to the
Claimant and shall sign the attestation at Part Two of Form 5.
10.2.3 If the Claimant indicated on Form 5 that he requests the assistance of the NGO
Member to complete Form 6, the representative of the EMU shall, at the earliest
possible opportunity, deliver a copy of said Form 5 to the NGO Member and shall
sign the attestation at Part Three of said Form 5.
10.2.4 As soon as possible after receipt of said Form 5, the NGO Member shall meet with
the Claimant and shall assist him to complete Part One of Form 6. The NGO
Member shall give one signed copy of Formn 6 to the Claimant and shall keep one
signed copy.
10.2.5 Claimants who do not request the assistance of the NGO Member to complete Form
6 shall complete and sign Part One of Form 6 and shall return it to the District
office of the EMU. Upon receipt thereof, the representative of the EMU shall sign
the attestation at Part Two of Form 6 and shall give a signed copy of said Form 6 to
the Claimant in person.
69



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
10.2.6 Upon receipt of the completed Form 6 from the Claimant, the representative of the
EMU shall mail or give in person a copy thereof to the NGO Member and shall sign
the attestation at Part Three of Form 6.
10.2.7 As soon as possible after receipt of a completed Form 6 from the representative of
the EMU, the NGO Member shall check whether Part One has been correctly filled
out. If it has not been correctly filled out, the NGO Member shall, at the earliest
possible moment following receipt thereof, meet with the Claimant and shall ensure
that any errors or omissions are rectified. The NGO Member shall then sign the
attestation at Part Four of Form 6. The NGO Member shall give a signed copy of
Form 6 to the Claimant and shall keep a signed copy.
10.2.8 The NGO Member shall number the Applications for Recognition as an Entitled
Person in the chronological order in which they are correctly filled out by inserting
the appropriate number in Part Five of Form 6.
10.2.9 The NGO Member shall check that the information in Part One of Form 6 is correct
and shall draft a resolution accepting or rejecting the Claimant's application to be
recognized as an EP. If the NGO Member recommends that the Claimant's
application be accepted, he shall indicate the category of the Entitlement Policy to
which, in his opinion, the Claimant should be assigned. The NGO Member shall
thereupon sign Part Five of Form   6 and shall forward Form   6 to the
Secretary/Convener of the GRC.
10.2.10The Secretary/Convener shall add a discussion of the said application and the
redressal recommended by the NGO Member to the agenda of the next meeting of
the GRC. If, however, the next meeting of the GRC is to be held within six (6)
days of the receipt by the Secretary/Convener of the relevant Form 6, the
Secretary/Convener shall add the discussion to the agenda of the next following
meeting of the GRC.
10.2.11 The NGO Member shall advise the Claimant of the time and place at which the
GRC will meet to consider his application and shall inform the Claimant of his right
to be present and to make representations at that part of said meeting at which his
application is considered. To that effect, the Secretary/Convener shall complete
Form 3, and the NGO Member shall personally deliver it to the Claimant at least
three (3) days prior to the date of the meeting at which the said application and
recommended redressal are scheduled to be considered by the GRC. The Claimant
shall sign the acknowledgement of receipt on said Form 3.
10.2.12 If the Claimant is not present at the meeting at which his application is to be
considered, consideration of his application shall be deferred to the next following
meeting of the GRC. If the Claimant is not present at said next following meeting
of the GRC, he shall forfeit his right to make representations with respect to his
application, and the GRC shall be free consider his application at its next following
meeting.
10.2.13 The GRC shall agree upon a recommendation to the EMU respecting the
disposition of each application using the voting procedure established at Article 13
70



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
and 14 hereof. Said recommendation shall be recorded at Part Six of Form 6, which
shall be signed by the DM.
10.2.14 The NGO Member shall personally deliver said Form 6 to the District office of the
EMU as soon as possible after the date of the recommendation and shall cause the
representative of the EMU to sign the acknowledgement of receipt at Part Seven
thereof.
10.2.15 If, within seven (7) days of the date indicated in the acknowledgement of receipt at
Part Seven of Form 6, the EMU accepts the recommendation of the GRC, it shall so
inform the GRC by completing Part Eight of Form 6 and submitting it to the GRC.
10.2.16 The GRC shall so inform the Claimant by completing Form 4. The NGO Member
shall personally deliver a copy of said Form 4 to the Claimant as soon as possible
after the date of the decision and shall cause the Claimant to sign the
acknowledgement of receipt thereon. The Secretary/Convener shall send a copy of
said Form 4 signed by the Claimant to the EMU for execution of said decision.
10.2.17 If, within seven (7) days of the date indicated on the acknowledgement of receipt
at Part Seven of Form 6, the EMU so directs by completing and signing Part Eight
of Form 6, the GRC shall, immediately request the PIU to dispose of the application
by completing Part Nine of Form 6. The NGO Member shall personally deliver said
Form 6 to the PIU and shall cause the representative of the PIU to sign the
acknowledgement of receipt at Part Nine thereof.
10.2.18 If, upon the expiration of seven (7) days following the date indicated on the
acknowledgement of receipt at Part Seven of Form 6, the EMU has not
communicated its decision to the GRC by completing Part Eight of Form 6, the
EMU shall be deemed to have endorsed the recommendation of the GRC. The
GRC shall so inform the Claimant by completing Form 4. The NGO Member shall
personally deliver a copy of said Form 4 to the Claimants as soon as possible after
the date of the decision and shall cause the Claimant to sign the acknowledgement
of receipt thereon. The Secretary/Convener shall send a copy of said Form 4 signed
by the Claimant to the EMU for execution of said decision.
10.2.19 If, within fifteen (15) days of the date indicated in the acknowledgement of receipt
at Part Nine of Form 6, the PIU communicates its decision to the GRC by
completing Part Ten of Form 6, the GRC shall so inform the Claimant by
completing Form 4. The NGO Member shall personally deliver a copy of said
Form 4 to the Claimant and shall cause the Claimant to sign the acknowledgement
of receipt thereon. The Secretary/Convener shall send a copy of said Form 4 signed
by the Claimant to the EMU for execution of said decision.
10.2.20 If, upon the expiration of fifteen (15) days of the date indicated in the
acknowledgement of receipt at Part Nine of Form 6, the PIU has not communicated
its decision to the GRC, the PrU shall be deemed to have endorsed the
recommendation of the GRC.    The GRC shall so inform the Claimant by
completing Form 4. The NGO Member shall personally deliver a copy of said
Form 4 to the Claimant as soon as possible after the date of the decision and shall
71



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
cause the Claimant to sign the acknowledgement of receipt thereon.  The
Secretary/Convener shall send a copy of said Form 4 signed by the Claimant to the
EMU for execution of said decision.
11. PLACE OF MEETINGS
The GRC shall hold its meetings at the District office of the EMU or at such other
location in the District as the members may from time to time agree on.
12. FREQUENCY OF MEETINGS
The GRC shall meet as often as is reasonably required to process grievances and
applications, but in any case no less than once monthly.
13. DECISION MAKING
The GRC shall take decision by majority vote. Each member shall have one vote,
subject to Article 14. In the case of a tied vote, the NGO Member shall have a
second and deciding vote.
14. RIGHT OF VOTE
With the exception of the Project Manager of the Scheduled Tribes Development
Corporation, each member shall be entitled to vote on every matter that is put to a
vote. The Project Manager of the Scheduled Tribes Development Corporation shall
be entitled to vote only upon matters of general interest and upon matters relating to
a grievance of an application from a member of a Scheduled Tribe.
15. QUORUM
The quorum for meetings of the GRC is four members, or their proxies, physically
present, who must include the EESRP and the NGO Member.
16. PROXIES
Any member, except the NGO Member, may be represented by a proxy designated
in writing, who shall have all the rights and responsibilities of the member whom he
is replacing.
17. ABSENCE OF QUORUM
In the event that a quorum is not present at a duly convene meeting one (1) hour
after the scheduled start of such meeting, the meeting shall be adjourned to the
following day. The quorum for such adjourned meeting shall be the EESRP and the
NGO Member.
18. PARTICIPATION OF MINUTES
72



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
The Secretary/Convener shall prepare minutes of each meeting of the GRC, which
shall be distributed in a timely manner to all of the members of the GRC. The
minutes shall be reviewed at the next following meeting of the GRC and shall, after
any necessary modifications have been made, be approved by resolution.
19. DATES AND NOTICE OF MEETINGS
At its first meeting, the GRC shall fix one day of each month as the date of its
regular meeting, and no notice shall be required for such meeting. Additional
meetings shall be convoked by the Secretary/Convener, who shall informn each
member by telephone or in writing at least three (3) days in advance of such
meeting, indicating the time, place and purpose thereof.
20. REPEATED ABSENCES
Any member who is not present in person or by proxy at three (3) consecutive
meetings without valid cause shall cease to be a member. The Secretary/Convener
shall ask the hierarchical superior of such person or, in the case of the NGO
Member, the Secretary of the Roads and Buildings Department to appoint a
replacement of equivalent rank in writing within fourteen (14) days, failing which
the remaining members shall appoint a replacement having a similar background
and expertise, subject, except in the case of the NGO Member, to the approval of
the PIU.
21. REPORTS
The GRC shall prepare monthly reports and a final report. The monthly reports
shall contain at a minimum the following information for the month in question: the
names of the members; the dates and places of meetings; the names of the members
attending each meeting; the disposition of each grievance or application, comparing
the grievance or application, the recommendation of the GRC, and the decision of
the EMU or the PIU as the case may be. The final report shall be a compilation of
the monthly reports and shall, in addition, contain the members' evaluation of the
GRC and their recommendation for changes to any future grievance redressal
procedure.
22. DISTRIBUTION AND POSTING OF REPORTS
The monthly and final reports shall be sent to the EMU and PIU and to any person
who requests a copy thereof. The NGO Member shall ensure that copies of the
monthly and final reports are posted in the District office of the EMU, the office of
the Zilla Panchayat and the office of any Gram Panchayat within the District.
23. LANGUAGES OF OPERATION
The spoken languages of the GRC shall be Hindi, Gujarati, and English. Where
necessary, the Secretary/Convener shall ensure that interpretation services are
available at the meetings of the GRC. All forms used by the GRC and its monthly
and final reports shall be made available in Hindi, Gujarati, Urdu, and English.
73



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
24. OTHER RULES OF PROCEDURE
The GRC may adopt such other rules of procedure as it considers necessary,
provided that they are not inconsistent with the provisions hereof.
25. CONFLICT OF INTEREST
A member shall disclose to the GRC any pecuniary interest that he has in any
matter before the GRC and shall not take part in the deliberations of the GRC on
that matter and shall not vote on that matter.
Where a disagreement arises as to whether a member has a pecuniary interest in a
matter before the GRC, the members shall decide by vote whether the member has
such an interest, and the member in question may not take part in that vote.
Where the members decide that a member has a pecuniary interest in a matter
before the GRC, the member in question shall not take part in the deliberations of
the GRC on that matter or vote on that matter.
Where the chairperson is prohibited from taking part in the deliberations, he may
nevertheless continue to act as chairperson.
26. CONFIDENTIALITY
The GRC in the course of its duties may come into knowledge of confidential
information not normally divulged to members of the public. Upon assuming his
duty as a member, and as a condition of assuming such office, any member who has
not already done so in his capacity as an employees of the Government of Gujarat
shall swear that he shall keep confidential any confidential information divulged to
him in his capacity as a member.
27. REMUNERATION
Save for the NGO Member, the members of the GRC shall not be remunerated.
The NGO Member shall receive the remuneration determined by the EMU.
28. MISCELLANEOUS
In the case of a grievance concerning a decision by the MVAC, the GRC may, at
its sole option, request the MVAC to reassess a market value that it has already
determined. In such case, the GRC shall complete Form 7.
74



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
ANNEXURE 3
Brief Indigenous People's Development Plan (IPDP)
for the Gujarat Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
Table of Contents
Baseline Data
Social and economic data of the affected tribal people, including their social structure,
incomes, resources and production systems
Legal Framework
Laws (and regulations and administrative orders) governing the rights of the tribal
people affected
Redressal mechanisms in case of infringement of rights
Land Tenure
Traditional land rights and state laws
Arrangements under the project (or this Plan) to ensure tribal peoples' rights
Strategy for Local Participation
Mechanisms for participation of the tribal people in planning, implementation decision-
making, evaluation (two-way communication channels)
Development or Mitigation Activities
What is proposed to be done (in different, relevant sectors)
Technical description of planned activities
Institutional Capacity
Staff (management, technical and field) and adequacy for implementation
Implementing agency's plans to involve others ?
Involvement of Tribal peoples' organizations ?
Availability of funds of implementing agencies
Implementation Schedule
Include benchmarks to assess progress at specified intervals
Monitoring and Evaluation
Independent monitoring plans - personnel, reporting formats, schedule
Involvement of tribal people's organization, if any
Review and disclosure mechanisms
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
Detailed cost estimates for planned activities and investments
Broken down by unit costs and project year
Financing plan
75



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
Brief Indigenous People's Development Plan (IPDP)
for the Gujarat Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
Baseline Data
The total rural population  of the II earthquake affected districts where
reconstruction would be assisted by the World Bank is 19.45 million, and the total
Scheduled Tribe (ST) population in the villages is 317,471, or 1.6 per cent of the total.
The districts that are worst affected by the earthquake are Kutch, Rajkot, Jamnagar,
Surendranagar and Patan. The total population in these districts is 8.71 million and the
affected tribal population is 258,459, or 2.9 per cent of the total.
Among the tribal population, the main tribes dwelling in Kutch are Vendu, Vaaghri
and Parghi whose main sources of livelihood are animal husbandry, hunting and labour.
Bharvad, Charan and Siddi are the main tribes in Jamnagar whose earning is linked
with forestry and animal husbandry. The tribals in Surendranagar district comprise
mainly of Padhar tribe and a few Siddis. They are engaged in labour works in road
construction, production of clay utensils, brick manufacturing, knitting ropes, etc. In
Patan, it is the Bhil tribe, which lives on the outskirts of the towns earning from labour
work.
Other districts that are severely affected are non-tribal districts. The eight districts
of Gujarat that are notified by the Government of India as Scheduled Areas (i.e.,
containing high proportions of indigenous people) are Sabarkanta, Panchmahals,
Varodara, Bharuch, Surat, Dangs, Valsad and Navsari. There is little or no damage due
to the earthquake in these districts, and they are not to be covered under Bank
assistance. An illustration of the low levels of indigenous populations in the earthquake
affected districts is provided by the information that, in the areas of Kutch and
Saurashtra, the reserved quotas for Scheduled Tribes in government jobs (of which
there are substantial numbers in the affected districts) are filled by people from other
tribal districts.
Farming on own land, dairy, wage labour, and agricultural labour are the main
sources of livelihood of the tribals in the affected areas. Most of them (other than the
government servants mentioned above) are below the poverty line and are therefore
entitled to benefits under several poverty alleviation schemes of the government (both
State and Central schemes).
Legal Framework
Under the Bombay Land Revenue Code (Section 73-AA) restrictions have been
imposed on the transfer of land owned by a tribal without the permission of the
appropriate authority. The restriction is on the transfer of land to non-tribal as well as
to any other tribal person.
76



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
In the case of transfer from one tribal to another, the district panchayat or
Collector is the competent authority for granting permission, and in the case of transfer
from a tribal to a non-tribal, the permission of the State Government is required.
In case of transfer of land from one tribal to another tribal without permission,
the land would be restored to the tribal who is the original owner of the land. In case
of transfer from one tribal to a non-tribal, the land would be vested with the
Government and would be given back to the original owner of the land. If he is not
willing to take it back it would be allotted to another tribal. The non-tribal purchaser
would be fined a sum of money three times the cost of the land.
These existing laws can ensure that land belonging to tribal people is not sold or
given to any other person. In the project, as relocations are on Government land there
would not be any instance of acquisition of the land of a tribal person in the project.
If any tribal person is aggrieved, s/he can complain to the District or Village
level Grievance Redressal Committees constituted for the reconstruction program. S/he
can also approach the District Judge who has been declared as the Ombudsman for the
purpose of hearing complaints from affected people. The Central Commission for
Scheduled Castes and Tribes is also a designated authority to hear any complaints and
direct the authorities to take appropriate remedial actions.
Land Tenure
In the areas of Kutch and Saurashtra, in the districts worst-affected by the
earthquake, the land is cultivated by owners themselves, including tribal people who
own land. In Indian parlance, tenancy has been abolished. There are no traditional
laws in operation and the various acts and the rules of the Government of Gujarat are in
force.
Strategy for Local Participation
In Phase I of the project there was widespread dissemination of information
through formal and informal communications channels. Many NGOs who work with
vulnerable groups including tribal people were involved in relief and reconstruction
activities and set up outreach mechanisms. District and taluk administrators reached
into villages to survey damage to housing and other infrastructure, set up systems for
the payment of compensation, provision of technical assistance, etc., and to hear
grievances. Panchayat mechanisms were activated and used where possible. Tribal
people will continue to have access to these channels, particularly to the official
administrative channels and the multi-tiered grievance redressal mechanism.
To give importance to the broader felt needs of tribal residents (including those
in earthquake affected areas), the State Government has provided that development
schemes amounting to 80 percent of the outlay of the total Tribal Sub-Plan can be
formulated by the District Tribal Development Boards constituted by the government at
the district-level under the chairmanship of the Minister in-charge of the district. The
President of the District Panchayat is the Vice Chairman of the Board; and the MLAs
and the MPs (elected representatives at state and central levels, respectively) from the
77



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
district, and Presidents of the Taluka Panchayats are members of the Board. Two
members of the tribal communities, two experts working in the field of education in the
tribal areas, and two female tribal leaders are also members of the Board. These boards
review, monitor and evaluate all development schemes in the Tribal Sub-Plan.
Development or Mitigation Activities
In the Tribal Sub-Plan areas of the state, a sum of Rs.703 crores has been
earmarked for agriculture and allied activities, rural development, irrigation, energy,
industries and mines, road and transport, communication, science and technology,
economic and social services. Elsewhere, special provisions are made through the
Integrated Tribal Development Plans to provide benefits to dispersed tribal populations.
Apart from the above activities undertaken for development of tribal people, the
project provides for an action plan ("Indigenous Peoples' Development Plans") to be
prepared for those tribal people who may be affected by the reconstruction program, in
accordance with a decision process described earlier. These action plans would be
prepared with the participation of the affected people, and also involve the Tribal
Welfare department and other line departments. In the plans, relevant measures would
be taken for the mitigation of any potential adverse effects and to further the
development of the tribal people.
Institutional Capacity
In blocks covered by the Integrated Tribal Development Plans, the development
schemes are implemented through the Tribal Project Offices. In areas where there are
small, dispersed populations of tribal people, financial amounts are allocated to the
District Development Officer and other agencies in the districts, and implementation is
carried out through the panchayats and line departments.
Under the earthquake reconstruction program, mitigation measures would be
implemented, where needed, through the existing Tribal Project Office in the tribal
districts, and the office of the District Development Officer and panchayats in the non-
tribal districts.
Gujarat has a number of NGOs and institutions that could be called upon to
prepare and assist in the implementation of the specific 'micro' IPDPs as needed.
Overall management and supervision of the reconstruction program, including ensuring
that its benefits reach tribal people, is exercised by the Gujarat State Disaster
Management Authority (GSDMA) through the District Administrations, their offices at
lower levels (e.g., taluka) and panchayats.
Implementation Schedule
The overall implementation schedule for activities for tribal people within the
reconstruction program is the same as that for other participants in the program. Where
specific 'micro' Indigenous Peoples' Development Plans ("action plans") need to be
prepared, the implementation schedules would be determined on the basis of the
activities planned. These action plans would be provided to the Bank.
78



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
Monitoring and Evaluation
For normal development schemes in the Tribal Sub-Plan, apart from review and
monitoring by the District Tribal Board headed by the Minister in-charge, there is a
state-level Commissioner's Office that monitors the implementation of programs.
Implementation is also reviewed by the State-level Planning Board headed by the Chief
Minister.
In the project, the GSDMA and district level authorities would monitor the
coverage of beneficiaries by various project components In addition, the continuous
social assessments would pay particular attention to ensure that tribal people and other
vulnerable groups are receiving their due shares of benefits. Monitoring indicators
would include: payment of housing compensation, access to technical assistance, access
to public facilities. The detailed IPDPs may also set indicators specific to the actions
they propose.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
Detailed cost estimates and financing plans would be worked out as a part of the
detailed Indigenous Peoples' Development Plans that would be prepared within the
reconstruction program where tribal people are affected.
79



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
ANNEXURE 4
LAND ASSESSMENT DATA SHEET
(To be used to record information on all land to be donated, purchase or acquired)
1.    Quantity of land required:
2.    Date to be acquired:
3.    Location:
4.    Owner
5.    Current use:
6.    Users:
Number of Customary claimants:
Number of Squatters:
Number of Encroachers:
Number of Owners:
Number of Tenants:
Others (specify):
7.    The manner in which land will be acquired (Identify one):
Donation
Purchase
Acquisition under applicable land acquisition and planning laws
7a.   If donation or purchase:
*  Is the land free from claims, easements or encumbrances?
*  Has the land been identified by the community/the line agency/the project
authorities?
*  Proof (notarized or witnessed statements) of the voluntary acceptance of
mitigation measures or the price paid
*  Proof of title being vested in the community or Guarantee or public access
given by title-holder.
*  Describe grievance mechanism available to those aggrieved
7b.   If land acquisition is involuntary (including if negotiated compensation clauses
of land acquisition and planning legislation are used) and 25 or more families are
affected, a Resettlement Action Plan needs to be prepared.
Who is preparing the RAP:
When it will be ready:
80



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
ANNEXURE 5
LIST OF LARGE SITES USED FOR TEMPORARY SHELTER
Except for the district of Kutch there are no temporary shelter sites which are large enough
and which needs special attention. In the district of Kutch temporary shelter sites have been
created (list enclosed). All the sites are on government land, and there has been no land
acquisition and no displacement.
S.   Name of     Name of the temporary shelter site          Area
No    Taluka                                                (sq.m.)
1       2                       3                             4
1     Anjar                 VD Road                        7 Acres
2     Anjar                 VD Road                        2 Acres
3     Anjar                 VD Road                        2 Acres
4     Anjar                 VD Road                        2 Acres
5     Anjar                 VD Road                     203 - 45 Acres
6    Bhachau                                           160-75-26 Hectres
7     Rapar                                               29-15 acres
8      Bhuj       Near Rawalwadi & Kailsalhagar            977,164
9      Bhuj       Netween Police Quarters and Jail       321,741 sq.m.
Quarters
10     Bhuj       Behind the RTO office, Madhapar        122,158 sq.m.
Village
11     Bhuj     Behind the BSF Camp, Mirzapur            306,009 sq.m.
Village
12     Bhuj     To the north of Pragsar talav, Survey     12,849 sq.m.
No.712
13     Bhuj     To the noth of Pragsar talav, Survey     528,454 sq.m.
No.870/P
14     Bhuj     To the South of GEB office               143,021 sq.m.
15     Bhuj     Near NRI Nagar, Madhapar Village         172,125 sq.m.
16     Bhuj     Near Military Area                       498,722 sq.m.
17     Bhuj     Near Rawalwadi & Kailashnagar           54,864.38 sq.m.
All these lands belongs to Government, no private land acquired. No secondary
displacement.
81



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
ANNEXURE 6
DISPOSAL OF RUBBLE & DEBRIS
Rubble was mostly dumped in low-lying areas of government waste land or on the sides of
the roads for widening the road. No rubble was dumped in agriculture lands or private
lands. No land acquisition was done in any district for rubble dumping.
The major source of rubble was in the 4 Municipal Towns, particularly Bhuj and Anjar. In
village of the affected areas the rubble was disposed along the sides of the roads and in
government waster land and there is no large sites used for disposal of rubble.
The list of large sites used for rubble removal is as below.
List of Rubble Removal sites:
1.    Bhuj Mundra Road - 2 to 5 KM.
2.    Filling of low grounds at Mirzapur Road.
3.    Sides of Bhuj-Mandir Road 0-5 KM.
4.    Leveling of Polytechnic Govt., and Engineering College.
5.    Sides of Bhuj-Anjar ROAD 0-5 km UP TO Madapar.
6.    Sides of Bhuj-Sural Bitt road near Railway crossing.
7.    Widening of Bhuj-Nagar road up to Railway crossing.
8.    Side road approaching GIDC.
9.    Rising of low-level ground near Plot No. 12 on Bhuj Kodki road.
10.   Filling of Pragsar Plot at Police Parade Ground.
11.   Side of new airport road at Bhuj-Khavada Road
12.   Leveling of ground for new Airport road compound at Bhuj.
13.   Widening of Anjar-Khari Rohar road from 4044 KM.
14.   Widening of road Bhuj-Anjar road 35 KMs.
15.   Filling of low ground on Anjar Vidi Road.
16.   Widening of road Anjar Chair bypass 42-43 KMs., and filling of low ground
levels.
17.   Widening of Anjar Kakhpar Chandrani road 0-4 KMs.
All these lands belongs to Government, no private land acquired. No secondary
displacement.
82



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis            March 11, 2002
A.6.1. Disposal of Rubble and Debris
The disposal of rubble and debris in district Kachchh was done according to a zonal
planning while in other districts, no such plan was deemed necessary in view of the
relatively less quantity of rubble and debris.
District Kachchh
For the Kachchh district, the information on zonal planning for the disposal of the rubble
and debris was available for two towns - Bhuj and Anjar out of the four worst affected
towns. The details of secondary and primary surveys conducted in the major towns of
Kachchh are presented in the following sub-sections.
Bhuj Town
The disposal of rubble and debris was carried out in four different zones of Bhuj town at
more than a dozen sites (See Box-A). The zoning was done to prevent haphazard disposal.
All the dumping undertaken by government initiatives under the zoning scheme has been
carried out on government land, where no adverse environmental consequences are
anticipated. In addition to this, the rubble was also used for useful purposes such as raising
some of the low-lying areas, reclaiming land for development, or to strengthen the
embankments of tanks. The campus of some educational institutions such as Leva Patel
High School on Mundra road and Government Polytechnic Engineering College and
Kumar Chhatralaya were improved using the rubble.
Box- A: Zonal Planning for Disposal of Debris in Kachchh
Zones      Details of disposal sites
>     Bhuj Mundra road - 2 to 5 km
>     Filling of low grounds at Mundra to Mirzapar road
>     Low portion of Leva Patel High school,
>     Sides of Bhuj-Mandvi road 0-5 km
>     Leveling of ground at Govt. Polytechnic Engineering College and Kumar
Chhatralaya on Mandvi road
II  ~   Side of Bhuj-Anjar road 0-5 km up to Madapar
>     Side of Bhuj-Sural Bitt road near railway crossing
'>    Widening of Bhuj-Nagor road up to railway crossing
>     Side of road approaching GIDC
III & IV    >     Raising of low level ground new plot no. 12 on Bhuj-Kodki road
>     Filling of Pragsar plot at Police Parade ground
>     Side of new airport road at Bhuj-Khavada road
>     Leveling of ground for new airport road compound at Bhuj
The government efforts had taken precautions to ensure that the drainage in and out of
important water bodies such as Hamirsar Lake and other tanks are not affected by any
rubble disposal. However, individuals and agencies outside the control of government have
resorted to unplanned and scattered dumping, despite the efforts by the administration to
prevent it. However, the amount of rubble dumped is not large enough to warrant large
mitigation effort. With little effort it is possible to improve the drainage paths leading into
the Hamirsar Lake and out from its waste weir, where isolated instances of unplanned
83



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
dumping seems to have occurred in the initial phase. According to R& B Department, there
is no blockage of the inlet. This is also evident from the free water flow into the lake during
the heavy monsoon rains after the quake. However, given the high aesthetic and cultural
significance of the lake for Bhuj town, the town planners need to give due attention to a
proper management plan for the lake.
There has also been unauthorized dumping indulged in by individuals or agencies outside
the government close to the Chhateri side of the Hamirsar Lake forming small scattered
heaps of debris. Attention must be paid to ensure that the small drains leading to water
bodies such as Hamirsar Lake are not blocked by the construction activity in progress and
care taken to enhance the aesthetic values of such places. The proper management of the
Hamirsar Lake and its environs will be possible only by giving it due importance in the
town planning effort, since it will be possible only with the cooperation of several
communities directly and indirectly associated with the lake, its surroundings and drainage
systems. In Kukuma village, people have used the debris to strengthen the embankment of
the Sarvaria talav and improve the road leading to the Sitaram temple.
Anjar town
In Anjar town, as per the zonal planning, the debris was disposed in 5 different sites (See
Box - B). The identified sites are all on government land. At some places it was also used
to widen the roads between Anjar and nearby towns and villages in addition being used to
reclaim some low lying land for productive use.
Box- B: Details of disposal sites in Anjar town
>    Widening of Anjar-Khari Rohar road from 4-44 km
>    Widening of Bhuj-Anjar road from 35-37 km
>    Filling of low ground on Anjar Vidi road
>    Widening of road Anjar Chair by pass km 42-43 km and filling of low level grounds
_   >   Widening of Anjar Lakhpar Chandrani road from 0-4 km
Roadsides have been used extensively for dumping and many roads have been widened in
this manner. The widening has not made any negative environmental impacts since any
large-scale tree felling or encroachment on wildlife habitats did not accompany this
activity. While most of the debris has been removed from public places and damaged
government buildings, some debris can still remain on private land and in a few human
settlements. There are also instances of haphazard rubble disposal by individuals and
communities.
Dumping has not been carried out in large tanks and water bodies such as Meghpar talav
(about 4-5 sq.km) on the Anjar-Adipur road, Khengarsar talav, Paras talav etc. In a few
cases, people on their own have used the tanks (talavs) close to human settlements as
dumping sites. In the case of Savasar Naka talav, the local community has not taken
sufficient care while disposing rubble. The unplanned disposal appears to have reduced its
water-holding capacity due to the presence of debris in the inlet and periphery. This has
happened in spite of the fact that the talav holds monsoon water almost round the year.
This is again an instance of people acting on their own without the involvement of any
government agency.
84



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
A pattern that emerges from many dumping practices by people themselves is of
attempting to reclaim some of the land for their own use. For instance, dumping has been
resorted to by people in and on the banks of the Papadiya talav, close to Ganga naka, to
convert into dwelling area. Similar is the case with Lakhasar talav, which the local
communities have used for disposal of debris without any involvement from the
government. In some cases, rubble and debris have used as landfills to reclaim low-lying
areas. For instance, the R&B Department has leveled an area near the Anjar Railway
station using rubble to construct a guesthouse.
Gandhidham and Adipur Towns, Kandla Port Area
The roadsides within Gandhidham and Adipur have not been used as much as in other
towns for disposal of debris. The disposal of debris in these towns was carried out with the
assistance of Kandla Port Trust. The debris was also used for leveling some low-lying
areas. Some of the debris was used to develop a parking area. All the major dumping sites
has already been leveled and compacted. Most of the dumping sites are on both sides of the
four-lane road between Kandla harbor and Gandhidham, fringing the backwater area of the
Bull's Creek, which remain dry for most part of the year. The compacted debris patches
have average length of about 350 m with a width of 75 to 100 m. The rail line to Khandla
runs in parallel to the north of the road. There is no dumping within the creek. The area has
not been identified as ecologically important area and is highly currently highly disturbed
by vehicular movement and other activities. The widening of the road has not altered the
water flows in any significant manner or caused any habitat alterations. This is the only
case of dumping in the coastal area. On the whole, inn this case debris has been put to good
use for improving the road without producing any perceptible changes in the water flow or
existing habitats.
Rapar taluka
In Rapar taluka the debris has been disposed on the roadside between Rapar-Bhachau road
and Rapar-Khadir road. Some of the debris was also used for filling the ditches on the road
in Rapar town, leading to Khadir. The quantity of rubble seen on the road side was
comparatively less in and around Rapar town, most likely because, the stones, mud and
tiles were used as construction material, of which stones were recovered by the locals for
reconstruction purposes and mud was spread in the agriculture fields or in the wasteland
which was not seen after such a long gap due to last monsoon.
Bhachau taluka
As mentioned earlier, the maximum quantity of rubble was removed from Bhachau taluka,
which is seen in the form of large heaps of rubble and debris on the road sides near
habitation, wasteland areas, on the periphery of village ponds and in the low lying areas.
Such heaps mainly consist of rubbles of cement, bricks and mortar.
District Surendranagar
Most of the rubble in the urban areas of the affected talukas of district Surendranagar was
seen disposed on the roadside. During rapid field visits in the urban areas of Halvad,
Dhrangdhra, Limbdi and Wadhwan talukas we did not come across of any incidence where
debris is dumped in the ecologically and socially important areas such as village ponds or
river banks. Occasionally in some of the rural areas, the rubble of the damaged houses was
85



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
disposed on the periphery of the village ponds. However in Dasada taluka, which comes
under rural area, the majority of the damage occurred in the Patdi town. The dumping of
the rubble was mainly done on the outskirts of the town in the government land on the
Patdi-Dasada road. In majority of the rural areas of the affected talukas in Surendranagar
district, the large proportion of the rubble was used for reconstruction activities and
therefore, dumping of rubble was not a major management problem in such areas.
District Patan
The damage due to the earthquake was less in district Patan as compared to other four
districts. Therefore, rubble disposal was not a big problem. In the rural areas of Sami and
Santalpur talukas, large proportion of rubble was either reused for construction purposes or
kept for future use. In addition, some of the reusable materials were being removed from
the dumping sites those wanting to use it for the construction of temporary boundary wall
surrounding to the agriculture fields.
District Rajkot
In district Rajkot, 15-20 villages were surveyed across Tankara and Morbi talukas for
checking the debris disposal sites. The team surveyed 13 villages in Morbi and 6 villages in
Tankara talukas (See Box - C).
Box- C: Name of villages surveyed in Rajkot
Taluka   Name of villages
Morbi    Velanth, Bedi, Morbi, Shanala, Nasitpur, Juna Sudalka, Laxmi Nagar, Kerada,
Haripar, Amarnagar, Gugan, GaraDharampur,
. Tankara Mota Khijadiya, Nana Khijadiya, Vagad, Rajpur, Meghpar, Zala, Nana Rampar
The planned dumping of debris through government agencies was mostly on the roadsides
and barren government land. However, there were also instances where people had on their
own disposed it in the dry riverbeds, streams and nallas. Such cases were seen in several
places in and around Morbi town and near Dhramapur, Amarnagar, and Gunga villages and
a few stray cases in Tankara taluka. In Gungan village, Morbi taluka, people had not yet
removed the debris. In most of the rural areas, villagers reused the debris for various
purposes discussed later in the section dealing with reuse options of debris.
District Jamnagar
In district Jamnagar, 10 villages were surveyed from Jamnagar and Jodiya talukas,
representing different degrees of damage to the housing sector. From Jamnagar taluka the
surveyed villages included, Moda, Bada, Dhuvav and Jambuda while in Jodiya taluka,
Amaran, Jamdudhai, Bhimkatta, Manamora, Balambha and Jodiya were surveyed.
The results of survey regarding the disposal of debris were almost the same. The roadsides
were used as disposal sites, other than low-lying areas, barren government lands. People
had on their own used the dry riverbeds in a few cases. Similar to district Rajkot, there
were a few incidences where debris was still lying within the village, for example in
Dhuvav village in Jamnagar taluka. However, this could be because majority of the people
were using the secondary rubble for reconstruction activities, which consist mainly of
bricks, stones and cement concrete.
86



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
A.6.2       Environmental Impact of Debris Disposal
The environmental impact assessment of debris dumping was mainly evaluated by
checking the incidences of dumping of debris in villages ponds, river beds, creeks, and
inflows and outflows of the village ponds/tanks and lakes. The study team has attempted to
cover the worst affected towns/villages of the affected talukas in the study districts.
In Bhuj taluka, villages like Bhuj, Bhujpur, Ratnal, Shukpar, Lodai, Jawahar nagar,
Kannaiah, Dhaneti, Lakhon and Kotai were sampled. In all these villages the debris was
used for the fencing of the agricultural land, good stones were kept for later reconstruction
and waste used for filling the low-lying areas along the roadsides. No adverse
environmental impact was noticed due to the dumping of the debris. Even after the
torrential rains that lashed the region this year after the quake, there has been very little
noticeable erosion from the compacted debris used to strengthen the boundary of adjoining
agriculture fields. The town planners needs to give due importance to improve the aesthetic
and ecological values of some of the important tank systems such as the Hamirsar lake in
Bhuj town. Although people on their own had used the periphery of several tanks or talavs
for dumping of debris in a few cases, since the quantity of debris was not huge, there seems
to be no major impact on the water storage capacity of the talavs as seen from the post
monsoon conditions.
Adverse environmental impact was not observed in Rapar taluka too, because majority of
the rubble recovered from the damaged buildings was disposed on the roadside, especially
to fill the low lying areas. Besides, in majority of the rural areas, the villagers have reused
the secondary rubble for reconstruction activities. In addition to this, about 20-30%
quantity of total rubble was also used by the villagers for fencing their agriculture fields
and filling ditches and low lying areas around the agriculture fields.
In Bhachau taluka Dhudai, Dayapar-Navagam, Shikra and Kumbhardi villages were
surveyed for rapid assessment. Reconstruction activities are in progress in these villages
except for Navagam. The villagers have recovered the useable stones from the debris in
their own land or in the premised of old/abandoned houses. They will use these stones for
reconstruction purposes. Moreover is some cases, nearby villagers have also recovered
stones, broken cement blocks, large pebbles and mortar from the disposed debris to
construct the fencing along the agriculture fields or around their residential premises. In
view of this, the possibilities of having any adverse environmental impact of debris
removal are not anticipated.
In the other four districts (Surendranagar, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Patan), the disposal of
debris was mostly on the roadsides and major adverse environmental impacts could be
visualized in these districts.
A.6.3 Guidelines for Closure of Dumping Sites and their Rehabilitation
As stated earlier, the disposal of debris has been recorded unplanned in some of the places,
particularly in district Kachchh. The major reason of such unplanned disposal could be the
urgency of relief work immediately after the earthquake where focus was mainly on to save
the lives and resume the transportation on public and private thoroughfares. In a bid to do
so, there have been cases of unplanned debris disposal. However soon after the formulation
of zonal planning for debris disposal by GSDMA in district Kachchh, the disposal was
regularized and planned avoiding the ecologically and socio-economically sensitive areas.
87



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
However, after a year of earthquake one of the important tasks regarding the management
of rubble is the proper rehabilitation of disposal sites and closure of further dumping on
such sites. It is necessary because the large heaps of debris on either side of the roads in
majority of the towns and rural areas have affected the roadside drainage pattern and to
some extent also caused inconvenience for vehicular movement. Based on these
observations, following guidelines have been suggested for closure of disposal sites by
taking corrective measures and further disposal of debris in new locations.
A. 6.4 Guiidelinesfor Closures of Debris Disposal Sites
Stabilization
> Site shall be stabilized with erosion control measures, including establishment of
vegetative cover
> Disposal heaps at the dumping sites should be leveled and compacted to prevent water-
induced erosion. Administrative guidelines need to be issues to ensure this. This is
applicable to the disposal on roadsides.
) All sites should be closed and rehabilitated in such a way that during monsoon the
roadside drainages remain open to prevent water accumulation on the roads.
> Local administrative bodies should ensure that disposal sites do not become a dumping
area for domestic wastes. While taking up rehabilitation programme of such sites, the
task of cleaning of city can also be taken up side by side with the help of NGOs and
local communities.
> In some cases where debris has been disposed on the roadside, which are also the
embankments of the inlet or the periphery of village pond, the debris should be leveled
and compacted firmly so that it does not affect the inflow of the water during monsoon.
> The dumped debris on the revenue wastelands should also be leveled because several
such cases fall on the drainage routes of some or other talavs and water storage
systems.
> Moreover, debris from such places should also preferably be used to widen the roads
and filling the roadside ditches in the affected towns and villages, instead of digging
new locations for filling material.
> Regarding the rehabilitation of the dumping sites, it is difficult to raise plantation on
such sites due to nature of debris, which largely constitutes cement and aggregate, with
no trace of mud in it. However, an attempt may be made to spread some soil layer
sufficient for growing grasses, which would help in binding the leveled ground and act
against soil erosion.
) In places of high aesthetic and cultural significance such as the Hamirsar Lake and its
environs in Bhuj town, which is also historically important, landscaping can be resorted
to enhance the aesthetic values and correct the effects of unplanned dumping by local
people.
> At some places if observed that dumping of debris has been done in the upstream of
rivulets or across the inlet of water bodies, to ensure that the water holding capacity of
the water body is not reduced, the inlet and drainage to the water body needs to be
managed or altered.
> At some places where it is noticed that dumping has taken place in the outflow of the
ponds and lakes, the drainage channels need to be modified to allow free flow of the
overflow from the water body during monsoon.
88



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis         March 11, 2002
> In case of outflow of a pond towards cultivable areas or towards water body harvesting
structures, the drainage can be altered to ensure that the water holding capacity of the
harvesting structure is maintained.
A.6.5 Guidelines for Further Disposal ofRubble and Debris
> Rehabilitated sites should be strictly avoided for further disposal of debris.
> The use of disposal sites for dumping of solid waste should be strictly controlled by
municipal authorities or by village panchayats.
s The new site should preferably be a low lying, non-productive revenue land enclosed
from all sides, which should be close to the village/town. It should be prevented from
possible surface runoff through proper embankments and leveling, after the dumping.
> The embankments and roads surrounding the water bodies should be left out from the
possible dumping locations to avoid filling & turbidity in the water bodies.
> Creeks and mudflats - which are ecologically sensitive areas in terms of habitat and
breeding grounds of several marine flora and fauna, should not used as dumping sites.
> It should not be carried out in and around the agricultural fields, village gaucher lands
and productive grasslands or forests.
Reapproval
> Sites that were approved as temporary staging or processing sites will require
reapproval for long-term storage, continuing reduction processing, permanent
disposal if site is not closed out in accordance with environmental management and
site closure guidelines.
Monitoring
> Sites shall be managed and monitored in accordance with applicable environmental
safeguards rules and to prevent threats to the environment or public health.
A. 6.6 Guidelinies for Closure of Temporary Shelter sites
As a part of the immediate relief measures, temporary shelters were constructed at various
places with building materials like Tin-sheds, corrugated sheets, bamboo, wooden frames
or with tents. Now, once the permanent shelters are ready, future utilization of these
temporary shelters need to be decided.
Experience from Latur Earthquake shows that much of the Temporary Shelters were
encroached upon by the villagers or by outside labourers. On many occasions, even after
permanent rehabilitation, villagers continued their possession of the temporary shelter sites.
Government of Maharashtra faced stiff resistance from the villagers at various places when
it tried to take possession of the temporary rehabilitation sites.
Therefore, it is necessary to evolve guidelines about closure/utilization of the temporary
shelters in future. Gujarat Ecology Commission recommends the following guidelines:
A. All temporary shelters in rural areas should be dismantled immediately after the
permanent rehabilitation is completed. Salvaged building materials may be auctioned at the
local market. Alternatively, entire dismantling work may be given to private parties, who
shall dismantle and take away the building materials against payment of a predecided
amount to the District administration.
89



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis        March 11, 2002
B. After dismantling of the structures, possession of land shall be taken over by the District
administration. Pre - earthquake status of the land parcel shall be restored.
C. Temporary Shelters, which can be upgraded to permanent shelters and conforms to the
"Relocation Sites criteria" set up by Government of Gujarat, may be utilized for Relocation
purpose. However, such sites have to be chosen carefully adhering to all environmental and
social safeguards.
D. Temporary shelters/ sites in Bhuj, Bhachau, Rapar and Anjar urban areas shall be
dismantled as per the process mentioned under Cl. A. However, certain smaller sites (at
least one each per town) can be maintained by the District Adminsistration with adequate
security as a memorial of the Earthquake - 2001.
E. Fairs workshops on Earthquake - construction safety measures, appropriate building
materials/ technologies may be organized in these sites on a regular manner.
A.6.7 Recycling and Reuse of Secondary Rubble
Based on the rapid field surveys an attempt was made to understand the composition of
debris and classify it into the proportions of reusable/recyclable and non-recyclable
materials to ultimately explore the possibility of reducing the damage to environment.
Based on these observations the debris could broadly be divided into three main types:
* One from the modem Reinforced Cement and Concrete (RCC) type of construction
with only very little (<10%) reusable proportion in it. The Steel in RCC, the doors
& door frames and windows & window frames fetch some market among rag
pickers and scrap workers. However, the major part of it is composed of powdery
mix of dried cement and sand mortar and crushed pieces of cement blocks and
bricks with low binding capacity, constituting more than 80 - 90% proportion.
* The second from the old stone and mud/lime mortar type of construction having
load bearing walls, with almost 30 - 70% reusable portion in it. This kind of
construction yields two main types of reusable materials one forming the doors,
windows, wooden rafters, Mangalore tiles etc. constituting very small portion and
the other in the form of walling material mainly trimmed blocks of stone and
boulders etc. constituting major part.
* And the third from the sites of heritage value or archaeological importance. The
debris of this kind requires special attention of concermed expertise to estimate the
proportion of recyclable or reusable material in each site. However, possibilities of
retrieving artifacts of significance, in case of the monuments that cannot be
restored, need to be worked out by concerned experts.
However a clear distinction was observed in the type of rubble and debris from rural and
urban areas mainly due to the kind of construction material used for house construction and
accordingly the reuse options also vary between rural and urban areas. The rapid study
conducted by GUIDE (2001) immediately after the earthquake attempted to evaluate the
possible reuse options of the secondary rubble, which were examined in the current study
in the affected district. The reuse options and findings are presented in Table 10.
Although no quantified information was available on the proportion of reusable secondary
rubble from government departments, the study teams undertook rapid surveys in the urban
and rural areas of the affected district/talukas to examine the options and estimates of the
reusable secondary rubble for reconstruction purposes. The secondary rubble mainly
includes the stones, tiles, bricks and other construction materials such as window and
doorframcs, iron bars etc. The findings of the survey are discussed below in detail.
90



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
Stones/mortar/aggregate
Of all the secondary rubble, the use of stones was more prominently recorded in the rural
areas, while in urban areas the use of stones was recorded rarely because of the nature of
construction material of the fallenldamaged buildings, which largely consisted of cement
and bricks. Since majority of the houses in the rural areas were constructed with stones and
mud as binding material, with almost no use or little use of cement, iron rods and bricks.
Therefore the proportion of recovered secondary rubble was quite high in rural areas in the
form of stones and wooden frames of doors and windows. In some cases it was up to 75-
80%. The NGOs, involved in the reconstruction activities in district Kachchh say that in
more than 80% houses in rural areas, needing reconstruction, the secondary rubble has
been used while in 10-15% houses they need to bring the construction material from
outside.
In rural areas, the large stones were used for construction of foundation, while in some
cases the recovered stones were reshaped to fit in between the bricks used for construction
of side walls. Such kinds of observations were recorded from almost all parts of the rural
and urban areas of the affected districts (Mahavir Bhai, Civil Engineer, Abhiyan, pers.
comm.). In addition to the use of stones, broken bricks and mortar were also used as filling
material in the foundations and soling for making floors of new constructions.
Other than the use of stones in house construction, the broken stones, bricks and cement
blocks were also used for fencing purposes in majority of the affected areas. The fencing
was done mainly around agriculture fields and in few cases around cattle shed and living
premises also.
Mud
The primary surveys conducted in the affected districts revealed that mud constituted about
5-10% of total debris, mainly from the damaged houses of rural areas. The use of mud was
not recorded very frequently in the study districts. However, in Dhrangdhra taluka in
district Surendranagar and at couple of places in Patan and Rajkot districts mud from the
rubble of Kachcha houses was spread in the agriculture fields, which, according to the
farmers, will get mixed with the soil of agriculture fields during ploughing or due to rains.
Other than this use, mud was not used for reconstruction purposes.
Wooden frames
Use of intact wooden frames was also quite significant in the rural areas in the new
constructions. Doors, windows and ventilator frames were used quite frequently in rural
areas. However the broken wooden frames were of not much use except using them as
firewood or in very few cases using them as support pillars for fencing around cattle shed
or agriculture fields. On the other hand in the urban areas, the iron bars, frames and
wooden frames of windows, ventilators and doors were removed from the fallen buildings
and also from those buildings which were to be demolished, because they were declared
unsafe to live in.
91



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis        March 11, 2002
Iron bars
During random field visits in the affected areas, particularly in district Kachchh where
amount of debris and secondary rubble was quite significant as compared to other districts,
the people were seen scavenging the iron rods from the rubble and making them into
smaller straighten pieces to be reused in house construction and for some other activities.
92



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis                                                                March 11,
2002
Table 10: Reuse options of different types of rubble and their use in the reconstruction and other rehabilitation activities
Secondary Rubble     Reuse Options                               Field observations
Steel reinforcement  *  Can be re-fabricated into desired size and  *  People were seen collecting iron rods and cutting them into small pieces
shape                                       to sell them for house reconstruction activities or for some other uses.
Stone Blocks         *  Stones & boulders can be used as walling  *  In majority of the rural areas of the affected districts and talukas, the
material                                    stones from the damaged houses are used in the reconstruction activities,
mainly for constructing the foundations. Smaller stones are used as soling
material in the foundations.
Concrete Blocks      *  Whole and undamaged blocks can be reused  *  The broken concrete blocks were mainly produced from the urban areas
at the site                                 and therefore were rarely seen being reused for any kind of construction
*  The broken part can be used as soling in     activities. Majority of it was seen dumped on the road sides in the urban
foundation                                  areas.
*  Building concrete roads for the area     *   In some places the large broken pieces of cement blocks were used by the
villagers as fencing material around their agriculture fields.
Bricks               .  Broken bricks can be used in paving pattern  *  Broken bricks at some places in the rural as well as in the urban areas
*  Foundation soling                            were recorded being used as soling for foundation.
Mud                  *  No reuse option                          *   In district Surendranagar, Patan and Rajkot the mud recovered from
Kachchcha houses has been spread in the agriculture fields.
Aggregate            *  Can be used as a filling material or as  *   Cement aggregate has been mostly seen dumped on the road side burms
aggregate in concrete or RCC                and not recorded being reused during field visits.
Wood                 *  If intact it can be reused as it is      *   In majority of the reconstruction in the rural areas of district.
*  If broken it can be used for making smaller  Surendranagar, Patan, Rajkot and Kachchh, the door and window frames
wooden frames and even as fuel, if not fit for  and supporting pillars have been reused.
making wooden frames                     *  Broken wood has either been used as fuel wood or in some cases as
*  Wooden supports are 90% recoverable          supporting pillars for fencing the agriculture land.
Roofing Tiles        .  These are 75% recoverable and can be used  *  Not seen being used in the reconstruction activities.
directly
Random Rubble        *  Bigger pieces can be reused in construction  *  Not seen being reused in the reconstruction activities. Majority of it was
*  Can be crushed into an aggregate             used as fillers on the road side burms or constructing the village
pavements.
93



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
A.6.8 Conclusions
The results of rapid assessment on the environmental impact due to the disposal of rubble
and debris in the earthquake-affected districts have revealed that overall there seems to be
no major negative environmental impact. The dumping of debris on roadside to some
extent may affect the drainage pattern, although it will not cause any major environmental
problem. The problem of drainage can be easily corrected by providing drainage path for
the water that is likely to collect during torrential rains, which are not a frequent occurrence
in the region. As mentioned earlier, in the initial phase individuals, relief volunteers and
NGOs, focused all the efforts on search and rescue resulting in unplanned disposal of
debris. Agencies and individuals outside the government had carried out a significant
amount of debris disposal. Though the government is not responsible for each and every
case of dumping, it may take upon itself the task of undertaking mitigation measures in
public interest, in cases where such intervention may be the only option to reduce adverse
ecological impacts.
On the whole no major environmental impact was observed in the earthquake-affected
districts due to dumping of debris and rubble. Moreover, except district Kachchh the
quantity of rubble and debris was not very large. Another factor, which minimized the
chances of having any kind of environmental impact, was the reuse of the secondary rubble
in majority of the rural areas.
One of the major aspects that need to be addressed after the disposal of majority of rubble
and debris is the rehabilitation of such sites, because the debris is still lying in the form of
big heaps on the roadsides, common lands and socially important areas. In such a situation
the immediate task should be to level and closure of further disposal of debris in such
areas, as suggested in the guidelines.
References
1.    GUIDE (2001). Gujarat Earthquake. A rapid environmental appraisal. Gujarat
Institute of Desert Ecology Bhuj-Kachchh April 2001.
2.    GWSSB (2001). Progress report of ADB projects undertaken by GWSSB. Gujarat
Water Supply & Sewerage Board. ADB Project-Loan No. 1826-IND.
3.    GSDMA (2001). A short note on removal of debris from Bhuj city and Anjar City.
Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority, Gandhinagar. December 2001.
4.    NWR & WSD (2001). Report on damage to water resources projects in Gujarat
State due to earthquake disaster 2001. Narmada Water Resources and Water
Supply Department, Gandhinagar. February 2001.
5.    Menon, M. (2002). Kutch -A Year After. Humanscape Vol. 9 (2): 6-22.
6.    Abhiyan, GSDMA, UNDP (2002). Coming Together. A documentation on the post
earthquake rehabilitation efforts by various organizations working in Kutch.
94



GEERP - Report on Environmental and Social Analysis          March 11, 2002
Annexure-7
List of identified priorities of the dam on the base of large population in the downstream of dam
Region      Sr.No. Name of Scheme         District  _  Gross          City/Town/ Village affected        Risk With
Saurastra                                              Storage in    Village     Town        City        Population
Mcft
1       Machchhu-II           Rajkot       3550          31          1           1           506000
2       Bhadar                _      _      7075         53          -           2           554000
3       Machchhu-I                         2434          48          1           -           338000
4       Moj                   _             1375         7            1          -           102000
5       Vadhvan-Bhogavo-II                 720           17          1           1           192000
6       Aji-I                               1027         4           -                       1000000
7       Aji-ILI                            2187          19          -                       156000
8       Ghee                               441           6            1          -           86000
9       Limdi Bhogavo         Surendra ngr. 793          24          1           -           204000
10      Sasoi                              1399          11          1           -           116000
11      Und-I                              2559          13          1           -           128000
12      Fofal                              1964          3           1           -           68000
13      Brahmani                           2059          17          -           -           102000
14      Aji-II                             779           9           1           -           104000
15      Chaparwadi-I1                      666           6           -           -           36000
Kutchchh
16      Rudramata             Kutchchh     2172          3           -           -           3000
17      Kaila                              418           2           -           -           1500
18      Tappar                             520           2           -           -           1800
19      Niruna                _      _      959          1                                   700
20      Mitti                 _      _      614          5                                   4200
Total     3703200
95



