Report No. PID10993
Project Name             India-Gujarat Emergency Earthquake (@)
Reconstruction Project
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   Irrigation & Drainage; Highways; Urban
Housing; Other Environment; Unidentified
Project ID               INPE74018
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Implementing Agency
Address GUJARAT STATE DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Address: Block No. 11, 5th Floor, Udyog
Bhavan, Gandhinagar 382 011,
Gujarat, India
Contact Person: Dr. P.K. Mishra,
Chief Executive Officer
Tel: 91-79-3259292
Fax: 91-79-3259248
Email: pkmgsdma@yahoo.com
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        April 15, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      February 22, 2002
Bank Approval Date       May 2, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Gujarat is one of the most developed states of India. Among the major
states, it ranks third in per capita income after Maharashtra and Punjab.
The State is highly exposed to natural hazards and still suffers from the
effects of a cyclone in 1998 and drought, which started in 1999 (although
the monsoon in 2001 was normal).     On January 26, 2001, an earthquake
measuring 6.9 on the Richter Scale occurred in western India. The
epicenter was in Kutch district of Gujarat state. While the earthquake
was felt as far as Nepal and in neighboring Pakistan, its most severe
destruction was unleashed in the state of Gujarat. The earthquake caused
substantial loss of life, injury and damage to property and
infrastructure. The official death toll stands at 13,805 and about
167,000 people were injured. About 1.2 million homes were damaged or
destroyed. Social services were also severely impacted, with destruction
or damage to over 2,000 health facilities/buildings and about 12,000
schools. Other infrastructure, including small and medium earthen dams
providing drinking water and irrigation to local communities, urban and
rural water supply systems, public buildings, municipal infrastructure,
roads, power and telecommunications, was also damaged. Thousands of small
and cottage based industries and agricultural assets were also destroyed
or damaged. The district of Kutch was by far the most severely damaged,
with an average of 70 W of buildings destroyed.    Other seriously affected
districts include Ahmedabad, Patan, Jamnagar, Rajkot and Surendranagar.
2. Objectives
The proposed project represents the second of the two planned phases for



assisting Gujarat in dealing with the destruction caused by the
earthquake. The proposed Project's objectives are: (a) promoting
sustainable recovery in the disaster-affected areas, and (b) laying the
foundations for sustainable disaster management capacity in Gujarat. The
following development outcomes are anticipated to be achieved through the
proposed assistance: first, reduced vulnerability and subsequent saving of
lives and property in future disasters through building houses and
infrastructure to disaster-resistant standards; second, increased
community risk awareness of and preparedness for natural hazards through
access to enhanced knowledge of hazards and disaster reduction techniques;
and third, enhanced emergency preparedness and response capacity of
responsible units (such as fire and rescue brigades) leading to saving of
lives and property.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Considering the Bank's major involvement in financing post-disaster
activities worldwide (recovery and reconstruction), there is a broad
consensus that the focus should shift to the long-term vulnerability and
risk reduction. The proposed Phase II is the medium-term link in Gujarat's
overall disaster management program. The Bank's broad international
experience and large India emergency recovery portfolio places it in a
unique position to assist GOI and GOG with the proposed medium-term phase
of the hazard reduction program.
4. Description
Project Components and Estimated Costs. The proposed Project's total cost
is currently estimated to be about US$503.7 million including
contingencies, of which Bank financing would be about US$442.8 million. A
detailed description of the project components is provided in the
Technical Annex of this document. The Project includes the following
components:A. Permanent Housing Reconstruction (US$197.2 million). This
will finance the implementation of owner-driven housing recovery plan
initiated under the ongoing immediate phase (Phase I) for the partially
damaged and fully collapsed houses in the affected rural and urban areas.
Assistance will be provided to repair about 75,000 partially damaged
houses and reconstruct about 135,000 fully collapsed houses.B. Public
Infrastructure Reconstruction (US$236.9 million). This component will
provide funding for (i) repairing, strengthening, rehabilitating,
reconstructing and upgrading damaged public buildings, roads and bridges,
dams and irrigation infrastructure in the earthquake affected areas
(US$201.3 million), (ii) retrofitting undamaged government administration
buildings and critically important public buildings such as schools,
hospitals, fire stations, and preparing detailed engineering documentation
for retrofitting key bridges in seismic zones IV and V (US$25.7 million),
and (iii) constructing buildings and control rooms necessary to foster
State emergency management as well as set up the Gujarat Institute of
Disaster Management (GIDM) under Gujarat State Disaster Management
Authority (GSDMA), and the Institute for Seismic Research (ISR) (US$9.9
million). This component will also finance consulting services for
planning and designing vital institutional complexes, and assuring
construction quality for reconstruction activities and for the inventory
of hazardous facilities, determining the types of retrofitting measures
for individual structural systems, arranging third party expert
supervision and related environmental management activities.C. Community
Participation (US$12.5 million). This component aims to ensure the
- 2 -



participation of earthquake affected communities, especially the most
vulnerable groups, in planning, deciding on and implementing the
reconstruction program so that they can obtain their due share of
benefits, including information, housing assistance, and access to public
infrastructure and services. This would be achieved through (i)
information, communication and education activities; (ii) establishment of
village-level sub-centers to build capacity for earthquake-resistant
construction and to form self-help groups that would monitor the program
and be responsible for disaster preparedness in the future; (iii)
strengthening local government mechanisms to undertake social audit and
ensure transparency; (iv) gender sensitization workshops for all
functionaries involved in the communities; (v) community-based disaster
preparedness program charged with identifying risks, vulnerable areas and
people; formulating plans; training in search and rescue, relief, warning,
evacuation, medical assistance teams; establishing local warning systems
and emergency response equipment; village drills, and so on. Large
volumes of print and audio-visual materials would be produced, training
courses, workshops, meetings and demonstrations held, consultants and
travel entailed, and community organizations supported financially (US$6.1
million). Purchase of emergency kits for 2,000 villages, containing
essential warning devices for timely notification and evacuation of people
at risk, and provision of major emergency kits for one hundred clusters of
villages would be supported (US$6.4 million).D. Disaster Management
(US$51.1 million). Given the three-phased program of disaster management
capacity building in the state, this component will build on the
foundations of awareness raising, education and massive training provided
in Phase I and will establish the necessary building blocks for Phase III,
the projected free-standing disaster management operation. Targeting
cyclone, flood, earthquake and drought as the main hazards, this component
will finance the establishing a professional emergency management program
and preparing Phase III. Key components include: (i) Emergency management
(US$41.3 million) which will address both pre-disaster emergency
preparedness and post-disaster emergency response and training; (ii)
Hazard mitigation and risk transfer activities (US$4.4 million) which will
support the essential studies necessary for designing and readily
implementing hazard reduction activities foreseen for Phase III of the
program, and (iii) Development of Disaster Management Institutions (US$5.4
million) which will facilitate the participation of all critical
stakeholders in the disaster management process, by establishing GIDM
under GSDMA and ISR. E. Project Management (US$6 million). This
component will finance GSDMA's incremental operating costs associated with
the implementation of housing, community participation and disaster
management. In addition, it would finance equipment, vehicles and
consulting services for training, quality assurance, monitoring and
evaluation, environmental and social assessments, and audits, among others.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $60.90
IBRD $0.00
IDA $442.80
Total Project Cost $503.70
6. Implementation
The GOG established the GSDMA on February 8, 2001 to coordinate and manage
-3 -



the earthquake recovery program. GSDMA is registered as a society under
the Societies Registration Act. The Chief Minister is the Chairman of
GSDMA. It has responsibility for implementation of the Project. A
four-tier institutional framework at the village, taluka, district and
state level has been constituted to effectively implement the Project.
The Central Implementation Review Group at state level which is chaired by
the Chief Secretary facilitates the inter departmental coordination and
monitoring. A three-tier grievance redressal mechanism has been evolved
by GOG to look into any complaints. The district judge has been appointed
as the ombudsman to receive complaints directly from the aggrieved and
decide on the merit of the case and direct the district authorities for
compliance.Building on GSDMA's impressive track record under Phase I, the
implementation arrangements for the proposed Project will substantially
remain similar to those currently in place. For execution of
reconstruction works, GSDMA would coordinate with state-level line
departments, other state agencies, local governments, and other bodies.
In addition, two dam safety panels have been created for design and
construction of irrigation components. The execution of works and
procurement of goods and services for specific components will primarily
be the responsibility of the line departments, with overall coordination
and monitoring by GSDMA. The staff in a number of line departments,
including roads and buildings, education, and urban development, have
experience in implementing Bank-financed projects and are generally
conversant with the systems and procedures to be followed for procurement
in Bank projects.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability depends on the long-term disaster reduction as part of the
reconstruction process as well as institutional capacity strengthening for
disaster prevention and preparedness. Therefore, the project objectives
are not simply to replace what was lost, but to improve, redesign, and
relocate economic activity, infrastructure and services as needed, to
ensure long-term sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
One of the major lessons learned from the recent disaster management
operations supported by the Bank worldwide, is the fact that developing
countries are becoming increasingly aware that hazard reduction pays off
and that measures should be put in place to prevent disasters to happen.
To reduce hazard and mitigate the impact of disaster more and more
developing countries are willing to borrow for prevention in general. More
specifically, the experiences of the previous disaster management
operations in India, particularly from the Andhra Pradesh Hazard
Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project and the Maharashtra
Emergency Earthquake Rehabilitation Project, teach several valuable
lessons, such as the need to separate emergency reconstruction activities
and long term disaster management capacity building. Both priorities do
not fit in the same time frame and building capacity to better mitigate
natural hazards and prepare for future disasters justifies a longer
implementation schedule. This was the main reason for opting for a phased
program with carefully balanced components, whose implementation optimally
matches the time frame of proposed Phases. The need to maintain
flexibility, client ownership and high political commitment have also been
found to be essential. Lessons from on-going Gujarat Emergency Earthquake
Reconstruction Program (Phase I). Project design, implementation
- 4 -



arrangements and other operational procedures are also based on the rich
experience gained during the implementation of the ongoing Phase I: a. The
establishment of the high powered coordinating and management authority
with committed political support has enabled the Government to undertake
reconstruction in a concerted and determined manner. Its strong presence
and continuous support are important both for the physical reconstruction
activities, and disaster management components.b. The detailed Operational
Manual introduced by the coordinating and management authority was
extremely useful to quickly bring uniform standards for efficient
monitoring of the use of funds as the agencies have been using various
standards evolved over their past experience.c. Formulation and adoption
of a coherent, proactive and well targeted communication and information
dissemination strategies at the beginning of implementation of emergency
operations is critical for the speedy and effective project
implementation.d. The introduction of interim audits of expenditures at
the end of six months of project implementation and its availability
within two months of the end of the period audited was helpful to identify
control weaknesses and initiate appropriate improvement measures, at an
early stage of project implementation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        A management framework has been developed to
address the reconstruction work's environmental aspects. The framework
attempts to maximize the opportunities for enhancing project components
and mitigation of potential impacts upstream, while recognizing the
constraints imposed by an emergency reconstruction effort. Within the
context of the agreed environmental management framework, an Environmental
and Social Analysis (ESA) examined more closely the environmental and
social issues most relevant to the proposed Project. The ESA findings and
the proposed nature of Bank support were the basis for the preparation of
a comprehensive Environmental Management Plan, which will provide the
framework for environmental and social impact mitigation and monitoring
measures throughout project implementation. The main environmental issues
facing the project and requiring management are linked to the management
of debris, rubble and reconstruction waste materials and to minimizing and
managing the impacts of the reconstruction work itself.The Social Needs
and Impact Assessment process that was initiated in Phase I would continue
to identify the affected peoples' needs (especially of vulnerable groups
such as women, children, lower castes, tribes, minorities, the
physically-challenged and elderly), and the program's positive and
negative social impacts on all stakeholders. Its findings would be used
by project management to ensure that these groups are participating in the
program, their needs being met, benefits equitably distributed, and impact
achieved in terms of information and technology transfer, housing
restoration, access to public facilities and services, and social capital
development for future disaster preparedness and management. The
community participation component of the Project consists of several
activities to ensure inclusion, equity and social capital development
among the earthquake-affected. In addition, a Social Management Plan has
been prepared as part of the ESA, covering these aspects as well as issues
related to displacement (primary and secondary) and the special needs of
tribal (indigenous) people.
-5-



11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Shyamal Sarkar
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 91-11-461 7241 ext. 217
Fax: 91-11-461 9393;
Email: ssarkar@worldbank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April
19, 2002.
-6-



