Report No. 24097
Report No: I074018 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/29/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: INDIA Project ID: P074018
Project: Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction Project      Task Team
Leader: Shyamal Sarkar
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 22, 2002 IBRD Amount ($m): 0.00
Bank Approval: May 2, 2002       IDA Amount ($m): 442.80
Managing Unit: SASEI     Sector: AI - Irrigation & Drainage; TH - Highways; UH
- Urban Housing; VY - Other Environment; XX - Unidentified
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)         Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objectives of the proposed Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction
Project (GEERP) are: (a) promoting sustainable recovery in the
disaster-affected areas, and; (b) laying the foundations for sustainable
disaster management capacity in Gujarat.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The following development outcomes are anticipated to be achieved through
the proposed assistance: first, reduced vulnerability and subsequent
saving of lives and property in future disasters through building houses
and infrastructure to disaster-resistant standards; second, increased
community risk awareness of and preparedness for natural hazards through
access to enhanced knowledge of hazards and disaster reduction techniques;
and third, enhanced emergency preparedness and response capacity of
responsible units (such as fire and rescue brigades) leading to saving of
lives and property. The total cost of the proposed Project is estimated
to be US$503.7 million including contingencies, of which the Bank
financing would be US$442.8 million. The proposed project will follow-up
activities initiated under the emergency phase (referred to as Phase 1)
where a number of ongoing projects were restructured to support emergency
and reconstruction work. In this regard therefore, this project will
benefit from the implementation experience of Phase 1.
The Project includes the following Components:
A. Permanent Housing Reconstruction (US$197.2 million). This will finance
the implementation of owner-driven housing recovery plan initiated under
the ongoing immediate phase (Phase I) for the partially damaged and fully
collapsed houses in the affected rural and urban areas. Assistance will
be provided to repair about 75,000 partially damaged houses and
reconstruct about 135,000 fully collapsed houses.
B. Public Infrastructure Reconstruction (US$236.9 million). This
component will provide funding for (i) repairing, strengthening,
rehabilitating, reconstructing and upgrading damaged public buildings,



roads and bridges, dams and irrigation infrastructure in the earthquake
affected areas (US$201.3 million), (ii) retrofitting undamaged government
administration buildings and critically important public buildings such as
schools, hospitals, fire stations, and preparing detailed engineering
documentation for retrofitting key bridges in seismic zones IV and V
(US$25.7 million), and (iii) constructing buildings and control rooms
necessary to foster State emergency management as well as set up the
Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management (GIDM) under Gujarat State
Disaster Management Authority (GSDMA), and the Institute for Seismic
Research (ISR) (US$9.9 million). This component will also finance
consulting services for planning and designing vital institutional
complexes, and assuring construction quality for reconstruction activities
and for the inventory of hazardous facilities, determining the types of
retrofitting measures for individual structural systems, arranging third
party expert supervision and related environmental management activities.
C. Community Participation (US$12.5 million). This component aims to
ensure the participation of earthquake affected communities, especially
the most vulnerable groups, in planning, deciding on and implementing the
reconstruction program so that they can obtain their due share of
benefits, including information, housing assistance, and access to public
infrastructure and services. This would be achieved through (i)
information, communication and education activities; (ii) establishment of
village-level sub-centers to build capacity for earthquake-resistant
construction and to form self-help groups that would monitor the program
and be responsible for disaster preparedness in the future; (iii)
strengthening local government mechanisms to undertake social audit and
ensure transparency; (iv) gender sensitization workshops for all
functionaries involved in the communities; (v) community-based disaster
preparedness program charged with identifying risks, vulnerable areas and
people; formulating plans; training in search and rescue, relief, warning,
evacuation, medical assistance teams; establishing local warning systems
and emergency response equipment; village drills, and so on. Large
volumes of print and audio-visual materials would be produced, training
courses, workshops, meetings and demonstrations held, consultants and
travel entailed, and community organizations supported financially (US$6.1
million). Purchase of emergency kits for 2,000 villages, containing
essential warning devices for timely notification and evacuation of people
at risk, and provision of major emergency kits for one hundred clusters of
villages would be supported (US$6.4 million).
D. Disaster Management (US$51.1 million). Given the three-phased program
of disaster management capacity building in the state, this component will
build on the foundations of awareness raising, education and massive
training provided in Phase I and will establish the necessary building
blocks for Phase III, the projected free-standing disaster management
operation. Targeting cyclone, flood, earthquake and drought as the main
hazards, this component will finance the establishing a professional
emergency management program and preparing Phase III. Key components
include: (i) Emergency management (US$41.3 million) which will address
both pre-disaster emergency preparedness and post-disaster emergency
response and training; (ii) Hazard mitigation and risk transfer activities
(US$4.4 million) which will support the essential studies necessary for
designing and readily implementing hazard reduction activities foreseen
for Phase III of the program, and (iii) Development of Disaster Management
- 2 -



Institutions (US$5.4 million) which will facilitate the participation of
all critical stakeholders in the disaster management process, by
establishing Gujarat Disaster Management Institute under GSDMA and
Institute of Seismological Research.
E. Project Management (US$6.0 million). This component will finance
GSDMA's incremental operating costs associated with the implementation of
housing, community participation and disaster management. In addition, it
would finance equipment, vehicles and consulting services for training,
quality assurance, monitoring and evaluation, environmental and social
assessments, and audits, among others.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
State of Gujarat in Western India. The epicenter of the earthquake was
located to the north of Bhachau in Kutch district of Gujarat state, at a
distance of about 250 km west of Ahmedabad city. The district of Kutch
was by far the most severely damaged, with an average of 70 % of buildings
destroyed. The reconstruction effort and project area spans a very large
area, almost a third of the state of Gujarat. The housing and public
building repair/reconstruction, the largest components of the Project,
will take place across hundreds of villages, largely in-situ. Most of the
earthquake affected area is classified seismic Zone V (very high risk) or
Zone IV (high risk). The affected area is located in arid and semi-arid
agro-climatic zones where water resources are limited, even scarce.
The earthquake-affected areas cover a range of social groups and contexts,
ranging from well-to-do business communities living in towns and larger
villages to 'average' rural agricultural communities to a few nomadic,
pastoralist groups. The worst affected district, Kutch, is known for its
relatively sparsely settled lands, dispersed settlements and craft-based
livelihoods. Agriculture is minimal due to poor quality land and scarcity
of water. The other badly-affected districts are more typical of the
Indian rural setting but Gujarat has a strongly skewed income
distribution. Deaths and losses of property occurred across all classes
of people as a result of the earthquake. Post-earthquake, the most
vulnerable are widows, orphans, the elderly and socio-economically
deprived groups such as scheduled castes and tribes and minorities,
particularly those who have lost their shelter, livelihoods and
family/social networks. Only 2 of the 12 districts in the project have
tribal populations of over 5%:   Kutch at 6.95% and   Banaskantha at 6.91%.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The project has been categorized 'B' given the low level of
impacts (largely reconstruction-related) anticipated by the proposed
project components and the widely spread project area. All of the impacts
are local and can be effectively mitigated. An Environmental and Social
Analysis has been undertaken as part of project preparation.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
- 3-



Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        Yes
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    Yes
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     Yes
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      Yes
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environment and social mitigation measures have been identified and
integrated into the overall project implementation framework.
Furthermore, the project scope is such that it is not expected that large
scale, significant or irreversible impacts will accrue because of project
implementation. As stated above, the objective of the project is to
assist in the sustainable recovery in the disaster-affected areas and
reduction of vulnerability in the highly disaster prone areas, and to lay
the foundations for sustainable disaster management capacity in Gujarat.
In effect, the Project will help in reducing the impacts, both direct and
indirect, which have occurred because of the earthquake. There are no
large scale impacts because the project does not support the construction
of significant infrastructure that did not exist before the earthquake.
The project supports the repair, rehabilitation and reconstruction of
existing infrastructure such as roads, bridges and earthen dams used as
water reservoirs.
Very limited changes in land use patterns will occur because of the need
to rebuild housing facilities in new sites for a small number of villages
and for parts of the four most affected towns (Bhuj, Bachau, Rapar and
Anjar) particularly in Bhuj and Anjar which require new land to
accommodate more modern urban planning standards.
With regard to the application of the Bank safeguards policies, these are
discussed briefly below for each safeguard policy that appears relevant to
the project.
Environmental Assessment. The Bank's policy on environmental assessment
is triggered by the fact that the project will support a large
reconstruction program with the potential for some localized environmental
impacts, particularly during the reconstruction phase. The likely
environmental issues have been identified through an Environmental and
Social Assessment (ESA) study, including the identification of mitigation
measures to reduce or eliminate the impacts. The mitigation measures
proposed in the Environmental and Social Analysis report have been
incorporated into an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which is further
supported by an EMP implementation plan.
- 4-



Safety of Dams. The nature of work involves the repair, rehabilitation
and strengthening of earthen dams, the vast majority of which are
classified as minor earthen dams with a maximum height of less than 15
meters. The work on these earthen dams is being overseen by two Dam
Safety Review Panels. These panels, which are already in place, are
reviewing and evaluating the design, planning and
reconstruction/restoration/strengthening and repair of earthquake-damaged
dams as per design criteria conforming to the latest Indian Standards.
Furthermore, an independent consultant will be retained for monitoring and
quality control/quality assurance for the dam repair works. The nature of
these works will involve rehabilitation and repair and will exclude any
work which would increase the storage capacity and/or command area.
Non-structural measures on safety of dams and related hazard have also
been planned under this project. This included preparation of emergency
preparedness plan, training of project staff associated with flood
forecasting and flood monitoring, training of village/taluka level
government functionaries and village representatives on disaster
preparedness operations, preparation of implementation of operation and
maintenance plan for reservoirs having significant down stream hazard
potential, and awareness campaign in potentially affected population on
hazard related aspects.
Cultural Property. The proposed Project does not include reconstruction
and/or repair of any classified cultural properties which would fall under
the category of national monuments or otherwise. This will be undertaken
by the appropriate authority, namely the Archeological Survey of India
The main project exposure to cultural property issues resides in the fact
that there are, in all likelihood, public buildings needing repairs which
have cultural and architectural value (but are unlisted or not part of
state and federal inventories), and which may be included in the proposed
list of public buildings to be repaired and retrofitted. While the
objective of the project is to repair and strengthen public buildings,
there may be damaged buildings which are determined to be beyond repair
and which may require tearing down for public safety purposes (although
this would most likely have already occurred as part of the emergency
clean up operations). Nevertheless, the project provides for a framework
to review and assess cultural and architectural value of buildings before
they are repaired or, in the worst case, torn down.
Resettlement. GOG has provided the Bank with information on the ownership
and status of large sites used for temporary shelter in Phase I, partial
relocation of villages and debris disposal, and confirmed that no
displacement or land acquisition occurred in establishing these sites.
Relocation (i.e., primary displacement due to the earthquake) has been
minimal on account of GOG's policy and efforts, and public preference to
reconstruct housing and public infrastructure in situ wherever possible.
In the case of a few communities requiring relocation, GOG's policy is to
reconstruct on government-owned or donated private lands. No land
acquisition is currently envisaged in the Project and, hence, secondary
displacement is considered unlikely. However, on account of the extent of
the affected area, the difficulty of rubble removal in certain locations,
and community-driven decision-making, the Project has prepared for the
possibility of land acquisition during its course. In Phase I, GOG agreed
to consult the Bank on relocations involving more than 25 families, and to
- 5-



implement the principles of full compensation and livelihood restoration
for any secondarily displaced persons. GSDMA has reviewed relocations
case by case and provided the Bank with appropriate information
establishing that no instances of secondary displacement have occurred to
date. GSDMA will continue to review any additional cases that may arise,
document their details, and ascertain that the agreed procedures on R&R
(below) are being followed. A Land Acquisition Assessment Data Sheet has
been prepared and agreed with IDA.
If private land is needed for relocation/reconstruction, GOG would assist
the relevant community to purchase the land on the principle of willing
seller-willing buyer rather than resorting to land acquisition under law.
If such land acquisition is necessary and/or the possibility of secondary
displacement were to arise, the GOG would inform the Bank, and prepare an
appropriate Resettlement Action Plan based on the R&R Framework already
adopted for the Bank financed Gujarat State Highways Project (Ln.
4577-IN). Decisions about land acquisition would be taken only after full
consultation with all affected people, and full disclosure of information
and entitlements. The owners and occupants of the acquired land would be
eligible for support based on the Bank's Policy on Involuntary
Resettlement. The key principles for such support are that acquired land
and other private assets must be compensated at replacement cost, and
support must be given to regain livelihoods if earning capacity is reduced
as a result of the land acquisition. In such cases, GOG would contract an
agency experienced in planning and implementing Resettlement Action Plans
to ensure proper consultation, compensation, and relocation assistance to
the displaced persons.
Indigenous People. To meet the requirements of O.D. 4.20, the Project has
collected information on the presence of Indigenous People ('Scheduled
Tribes') in the affected areas. GOG's policy of paying housing assistance
on the basis of actual damage assessments provides for equitable treatment
of vulnerable groups, including Scheduled Tribes. Further, a grievance
redressal process is accessible to those who wish a re-assessment of
damage to their property. No instances of discrimination against
scheduled tribes have been brought to light by this process, the media,
research studies, or the on-going social needs and impact assessments.
During this Project, GOG would put the following decision process in place
for the preparation of Indigenous Peoples' Development Plans (IPDPs): (a)
The continuing social assessments would identify and document the presence
of tribal people among the earthquake affected, and whether and how they
are able to assert their interests and rights within the Project. (b) It
would also monitor the access of these tribal people to project benefits
and impacts. In the event that the Project has significant (expected or
actual) positive or negative impacts on the distinctive cultural or
economic way of life of the tribal people, and/or if they were not able to
assert their rights, an IPDP would be prepared. (c) The IPDP would be
based on the informed participation of the tribal people and would present
strategies to address their concerns. If adverse impacts are anticipated,
the IPDP would determine measures to avoid or mitigate harm.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
There appears to be no serious potential of cumulative negative impacts
due to the application of triggered safeguard policies. The project is
- 6 -



designed to reestablish the basic necessities of life in term of housing
and public services, over a large area, leading to very dispersed
localized effects largely limited to the construction phase of the project.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
The nature of the project which is intended to assist in the establishment
of an enhanced (from a disaster management perspective) pre-earthquake
conditions is unlikely to lead to any significant incremental long-term
impacts.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
There has been no explicit treatment of alternative in term of overall
reconstruction decision-making i.e. the decision to rebuild and restore
people's livelihoods was inevitable. Its also important to note that GOG
policy was to support in-situ reconstruction wherever and whenever
possible, in accordance with the wishes of affected people. Consideration
of alternatives at the project component level is done as a matter of
course during project preparation.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The borrower has prepared an Environmental and Social Analysis in which it
has highlighted the possible environmental and social issues in general,
and Bank safeguard related issues in particular. An Environmental
Management Plan and its implementation plan have been prepared and will
serve as the operational instrument for managing environmental issues.
The borrower has already established a senior level position within the
implementing organization to oversee and manage environmental and social
development issues. The roads and bridges repair component will be
undertaken in accordance with the environmental and social guidelines
established under the Bank-funded Gujarat State Highways project. Full
details on proposed arrangements for management of safeguard issues,
including the timeframe for implementation, are presented in detail in the
Environmental and Social Analysis report.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders in the project are the earthquake affected people.
NGO's who have joined the reconstruction effort are key secondary
stakeholders, along with local elected and government officials who are
leading the effort. The GOG has consulted primary and secondary
stakeholders during its policy-making process and continues to have a
participatory approach during implementation. For example, financial
assistance for repairs/reconstruction of houses was based on detailed
damage surveys carried out in every village and involving both information
dissemination and consultation activities. Grievance redressal mechanisms
and an ombudsman are in place for anyone who is dissatisfied with the
surveys or other aspects of program implementation. GOG proposes to make
the compensation lists publicly accessible in every village/town. Local
mechanisms such as the involvement of village-level engineers, revenue
officials, gram panchayats, gram sabhas and NGO's also ensure
participatory and transparent processes. Finally, a continuous social
assessment is underway to identify needs, actions and impacts on various
- 7 -



stakeholders (especially vulnerable groups) throughout the project period.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              1/22/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure          2/22/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           2/25/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              1/22/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure          2/22/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           2/25/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              1/22/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure          2/22/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           2/25/2002
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              1/22/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure          2/22/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           2/25/2002
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Shyamal Sarkar  4/18/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Bilal H. Rahill/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Meera Chatterjee/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         L. Panneer Selvam        4/18/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Vincent Gouarne 4/18/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 8 -



