Documentof
The Worid Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
T-7516
TECHCAL ANNE
uDIA
GUJARAT EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECONSIRUCIION PROJECT
April 10, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients cnly in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not oterwise be disclosed withu Word Bank authoization.



Curey Equvalents
Cwrency Unit. Indian Rupees (Rs.)
Year   Evchange Rates
March5,2002: US$1.00=Rs.48.73
Weights aMea      e
1 meter (m) = 3.228 feet
1 kilometer ([an) = 0.62 miles
1 bectaie (ha) = 247 acres (ac)
10 lakhs = 1 million
1 crore = 10 million
FIsc Year of Borower
April l-March31
Vice President:                         Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                       Edwin Lim
Sector Director:                        Vincent Gouarne
Sector Manager                          Sonia Hammam
Team Leader:                            Shyamal Sarkar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Acronyms and Abbreviations
ADB                  Asian Developnent Bank
CAA&A                Comptroller of Aid, Accounts and Audit
C&AG                 Controller and Auditor Genea;
CAS                  Country Assistance Shategy
CBO                  Comnmunity Based Organizafion
CDO                  Central Design Organization
CEMP                 Community Environrental Managernent Plan
CEO                  Chief Executive Officer
CPS                  Community Participaion Strategy
CWC                  Central Water Commission
DEA                  Departrnen of Economic Affairs
DGS&D                Directorate Geral of Supplies and Disposal
DPEP                 District Primary Education Project
DPR                  Detailed Project Report
EA                   Envrnmental Assessment
EMF                  Environrental ManagementFramework
EMP                  Envimnmental Manageent Plan
FMR:                 Financial Monitoring Reports
GIDM                 Gujarat Istitute of Disaster Managem ent
GEC                  Gujarat Ecology Commission
GEERP                Gujarat Earthquake Emegency Reconstruction Program
GIS                  Geographic Informtion System
GOG                  Govem    nt of Gujaat
GOI                  Govemniment of India
GSDMA                Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority
GSHP                 Gujarat State Highway Project
GSPHC                Gujarat State Police Housmg Carporation
HRIP                 Housing Recovery EInplenEtation Plan
HRP                  Housing Rehabilitation Policy
IBRD                 Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
IDA                  International Developnment Association
IEC                  Infomzation, Education and Commnmication
IPDP                 Indigenous People's Develqpment Plan
ISR              :   istitute for Seismic Research
MDM                  Mid Day Meal
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NCCBM                National Council for Cement and Building Materials
NGO                  Non Governmental Orgamizadon
PIP                  Project Inplementation Plan
PMR                  Project Management Report
PMU                  Project Management Unit
RAP                  Resettlement Action Plan
R&B                  Roads and Buildings Department
RELA                 Rapid Environmental Inpact Assessment
SA                   Social Assessment
TDO                  Taluka (sub-district) Development Office
TOR                  Terms of Reference
USAID                United States Agency for Insdtutional Development
VCWC                 Village Civil Works Cotm-ittee
WRD                  Water Resoun     Depatmet
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






muDI
GUJARAT EMERGENCY EARTHQUAIKE RECONSTUCTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
1. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGIIES                                                                  1
BA  K  RONCKGROUND................I .................................A...................  1...
THE   A EARTHQUAK.......................................................................  1....
DAMAGE        S ASSE.............................................SMENT....................... 2...
Social Dimensions of the Gujarat Earthquake .................................................2
OvO   ew o Se  tra    ose  ......e........of.......Sector............................sse............ 2..
Econom ic     c  ...........................................m..........act.......................
2. BANK RESPONSE AND STRTEGY.......---.-.---6
RATIONALE FoR BANK INvoLvEAENT .........................................................6
BAKBANENK.................................SPONSE.6........................................
P'ROGRESS UNDER PHASE I EMIERGENCY OPERATIONS............................................7
LESSONS       N  D..................................LEARNED.........................................
Lessons Learnedfirom the BanIk's Previous Emergency Operations in India........................9
Lessons Learnedfirom the GEERP - Phase I ..................................................9
3. DETAILED) PROJECT DESCRIPTON                                                            -11
PRojEcr OBJEcTIvEsAND OuTcoMEs........................................................1 1
PROJECT CompoNENTs AND ESTIMATED COSTS .11.............................................. 
Permanent Housing Recotnstrction (US$197.2 million) ........................................11
Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure (US$236.9 million) .....................................13
Commnwity Participation (US$12.5 million) ..................................................14
Disaster Management (US$.51.1 million).....................................................14
Project Management (US$6.0 million).......................................................17
PRojEcT CoST AND FINANCING SummARY ...................................................1 8
Ta leAablec A:r            C s  ......Pro........ect.............n........na...........Cost.......... 1..8 
Table B., Financing Plan by Project Components .............................................18
Table  -C   s   T be..............C:..........Cost.................Table.................... 19.....1
4. STUDIES AND TECHNCIAL ASITAC                                                               21
DiaisasterM anagement.21................................................................2
Hazard Mitigation and Risk Transfer .......................................................22
Public   l i g  ..............................Bu...............d......................22........2
Dam    Safety  and  l...............................................ga........ion.......... 22...2
Roads       rd es..................and...............Bridges.............................22......2
5. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMIENT'S AND PROJECT MIPLEAENTATION -......23
PRO      PR P  R DNSJE....................PRE............A.......EDN.............SS.......... 23....2
OVERAI.LINsTUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS ....................................................23
INsTTuTIoNAL ARRANGEMiENTs FoR INDIVIDuAL CoMtPONENTs .................................24
PePe   et ouigwecniwioe......Housing..............Recons............ruction..............  24..2
Reconstruction of Public Infr-astructure ......................................................25
Community  Pa      tonSpp    rt................tic..........a.......o.......Support............... 27..2
Diate   M  n gews..........te..............Man..............gem.............n........27........2
Pro  cMjecte       t................... ....Managemen....................................... 27.....2
PROCU     ETARNGREME..................T.....A......R.....NGEME..................S.28.......2
DI BRsBURS........................................M...........NT................2..........2



ii
FINANCIALMANAGEMENT ......................................... 28
6. ACTION PLAN                                                                    30
ACTIONS AGREED W      WE GOVERN3T .........................................       30
IMLEMENTATJON ACrlON PLAN AND MONMRING INDICATORS .........................................  30
AlTACIIMENTS
1. Social Development                                                              32
2. Environmental Assemnnt and Environmental Management Plan        a35
3. Communication and Tansparency Strategy                                          37
4. Procurement Arrangements                                                        39
5. Fnancial Mnament A          mm                gee_46
6. Implementation Schedule
MAP



TECHNCIAL ANNEX
GUJARAT EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGIES
BACKGROUND OF GUJARAT
1. Gujarat is one of the most developed states of India. Among the major states, it ranks third in per capita
incomre after Maharashtra and Punjab. The state has achieved an impressive growth rate, averaging eight
percent over the decade of 1990s. Although its 41 million inhabitants constitute less than five percent of
India's population, Gujarat contributes nearly 11 percent of India's industrial output and 10 percent of the total
private consumption. The state is a major producer of chemical and pharmaceutical products, cement, steel,
lignite, diamond jeweky, salt, soda-ash and handicrafts. It is the home of India's first Free Trade Zone and is a
major manufactunng base for mnany Indian exports. The ports in the state handle nore than 20 percent of
country's trade, with Kandla port alone accounting for 17 percent of the country's maritime traffic. The state
also has a comparatively large number of community and social organizations, and is home to some of the
most successful cooperative movements in India.
2. Gujarat has a poverty ratio of 24 percent, lower than the all-India average because of its relatively higher
levels of industrialization and urbanzation. But other indicators of poverty show that the poor - especially
women and children - may be more disadvantaged than this figure suggests. For example, the National
Family Health Survey (1998-99) found that over 45 percent of children were wasted, and over 50 percent
were stunted, indicating chronic malnutrition. Twotirds of Gujarat's population lives in rural areas, and the
poor households are mainly marginal farmers and landless laborers belonging to scheduled castes and
scheduled tribes.
3. Gujarat is highly exposed to natural hazards. The state continues to suffer from the effects of a cyclone in
1998 and a drought which started in 1999, although the last monsoon was nornal. This was followed by the
devastating earthquake of January 2001. The cumulative impact of these hazards on the vulnerable population
has increased with each disaster. The eartiquake-affected areas, particularly the worst hit districts of Kutch
and Jamnagar, have high levels of urban and rwal poverty. In the districts close to the epicenter of the
earthquake, food insecurity and malnutrition of rural households are among the highest in the state, even in
nornal years.
THE EARTHQUAKE
4. On January 26, 2001, an earthquake measuring 6.9 on the Richter scale occurred in western India.' The
epicenter was located to the north of Bhachau in Kutch district of Gujarat state, at a distance of about 250 km
west of the city of Ahnmdabad. The ground shaking lasted for about two minutes with strong ground motion
lasting for about 25 seconds, and the effects of the eartiquake were felt throughout the Indian sub-continent
This was followed by hundreds of aftershocks with a magnitude of 3.0 and above.
5. The earthquake caused major loss of life, injury and damage to property and infrasturcture in Gujarat
The official death toll was 13,805 and about 167,000 people were estimated to have been injured. Around 1.2
million homes were damaged or destroyed. Social infrastructure was also severely hit, with destruction or
damage to over 2,000 health facilities/buildings and about 12,000 schools. Civil administration was greatly
affected, with office buildings and records destroyed; many staff were either killed or suffered the loss of
family members. Physical infrastructwe was also severely damaged, including small and medium earthen
1 Estinates of the earthquake magnitude on the Richter scale vary from 6.9, reported by the Inia Meteorlogical
Department, to 7.6 by Geological Survey of India and 7.7 by U.S. Geological Survey, based on differnces in
observational data incorprated into each esimate and the method of calculation.



2
dams providing drinking water and irigation to local communities, urban and rural water supply systems,
public buildings, municipal infiastnct, roads, power and telecommunications. Thousands of small and
cottage based industries and agricultural assets were also destroyed or damaged. Twelve Gujarat districts2
were affected. The district of Kutch was by far the most severely damaged, with an average of 70 percent of
buildings destroyed Other seriously affected districts included Ahmedabad, Patan, Jamnagar, Rajkot and
Surendranagar. These six districts accounted for over 95 percent of the deaths caused by the earthquake.
Towns such as Bhachau and Rapar in Kutch have suffered nearly 100 percent damage. Towns and villages in
the affected areas were reduced to piles of concrete and rubble, and hundreds of thousands of livelihoods were
destroyed. Although the location of the eartxhqake's epicenter in the sparsely populated northwestern part of
Gujarat averted a disaster of even greater proportions by avoiding the most industrialized areas, it affected the
poorest region of the state.
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT
Social Dimensions of the Gujarat Earthquake
6. A large number of families suffered the death or serious disability of a member. This will have long-term
consequences on the well being of surviving family members, particularly widows, single parent children,
orphans and the elderly. Evidence suggests that comparatively, the earthquake killed more women and
children than men. Similar differences also exist anmong the injured.
7. Other social impacts of the earthquake include deep insecurity among those who have lost assets, leaving
them vulnerable to imnpoverishment. The earthquake destroyed over 234,000 houses, and another 970,000
were damnaged. The livelihoods of many families were disrupted, parficularly among those residing in the
worst affected towns and villages. About 19,000 handicraft atisans, the backbone of the Kutch district's
economy, are one of the most severely affected groups. Kutch accounts for 80 percent of India's salt
production, and 80 percent of its facilities suffered damages. Several thousand salt farmers have experienced
the collapse of their brine wells and destruction of salt fields. Many salt refineries were also damaged,
hampering the export of salt from the region. Yet another important source of livelihood in Kutch is cattle-
about 20,000 cattle were losL
8. The sense of insecurity also stems from the repeated aftershocks in the region. Though the people of
Kutch are known for their independence and resilience, the poorest among them have been rendered very
vulnerable. The Government of Gujarat (GOG) mobilized rapidly to provide food grain and cash to affected
families. NGOs, philanthropic groups, development agencies and private businesses also stepped in to
supplement Government's efforts to provide food, medical services, clothes, blankets, utensils, basic supplies
and tents. Another serious consequence of the disaster was the complete breakdown of services such as
education, health, water supply, electricity, solid waste disposal and agricultural extension, in the worst hit
villages and urban areas. Following the disaster both public and private services came to a standstill. Through
prompt efforts GOG was able to provide drinklng water by tankers and restore electricity in many places
fairly quickly. It also made all possible efforts to open temporary classrooms in time for the academic session.
9. In spite of all their problems, the Kutch community was reluctant to put orphaned children up for
adoption. This demonstrates an expression of community solidarity and mutual support in a time of need, and
is an indication of the will and ability of the communities to reorgaize and rebuild their lives.
Overview of Sectoral Losses
10. A total US$2.1 billion in asset losses (including value of household assets) valued at same-standard
replacement costs, and US$1.8 billion in improved-standard reconstruion costs, have been estimated by the
2 The districts ame Kuch, Rajkot, Jamnakg, Surendana, Ahmedabd Patan, Banaskandia, Poibandar, Bhavnar,
Sur, Amreli and Jumgadh.



3
Bank based on GOG figures and field visits (ref. Table 1). A distinction is made between direct or same-
standard replacement costs (the costs for restoing assets to the standard that existed before) and improved-
standard reconstruction costs (the costs for rebilding to a standard that includes the risk of natural disaster).
Given Gujarat's high degree of exposure to natural hazards, sane-standard replacement was not considered.
Table 1. Estmate of Direct Damages and Reconstruction Costs
Sector                            Dired                  Reconstructionhi        Ownenh
US$ milion Rs. milon    US$ million Re. mlwion
Housing                           1,111 n2    51,662     598         28,700      Private
Health                            47          2,199      75          3,580       Public
Education                         144         6,696       158        7,600       PuhfPrivate
Sub-total: Soial Sectors       1,302       60,557      831         39,880
Irigation                         40          1,860      75          3,600       Public
Rural WaterSupply*                50          2,339      87          4,180       Public
Municipal   structre              30          1,409      126         6,040       Public
Public Buildings and Monmes       73          3,399      89          4,270       Public
Power                             40          1,837      68          3,250       Public
Roads & Bridges                   69          3,209      74          3,550       Public
Ports                             21          977        25           1,210      Public
Telecommunications                11          512        25          1,210       Public
Sub4otal: Infrastucture        334         15,542     569         27,310
Agriculture and Livestock**       117         5,450      42          1,990       Private
lnry **                           73          3,399       146        7,000       Private
Services ** /3                    250         11,625     83          4,000       Private
Sub-total: Productve Secors    440         20,474      271         12,990
Sub-totil: Environmenit/4      55          2,558       53          2560
Support Structure                                        94          4512
Grwi Total                        2,131       99,144     1,818       87,252
Source: GOG-GSDMA
/1 Replacement of irnmovable assets, with improved earthquake/cyclone resistance It does not include expenses associated
with technical assistance and training and counseling programs.
/2 Includes value of household assets
/3 Includes damages to assets of the service sector not listed above
/4 Includes costs of rubble removal in urban and rural areas
* Reconstruction costs include replacing cement with mnetal pipes
** Direct damages and reconstruction costs to agriculture, industry, and services, exclusive of sectrs listed above.
Exchange Rate as of November 12,2001: 1 US$ = Rs 48.0
11. Figures in Table 1 indicate that the heaviest damages occurred to housing and other vital social
infiwsxtue underscong the heavy social impacts of the disaster. In addition to the public and private losses
set out above, there are some US$53 million of direct damages to the enviromnment This includes the cost of



4
nibble removal in urban and nwal areas. The costs of tackling these problems mainly accrued to the public
sector.
12. The extent of damage in sectors that are proposed for financing under the Project is summarized below.
Housng. Housing is the single most seriously affected sector by the earthquake. GOG estimates
that over 234,000 dwelling units collapsed, and over 970,000 were partially damaged. Direct losses
to housing amount to a total of US$1.1 billion, while the cost of reconstruction, repair and
strengthening to improve seismic and cyclone standards would require about US$598 million.
The most important indirect costs that cannot be assigned financial value, at present, include high
social costs of homelessness, underscored by psychological trauma, poor health and fear of
occupying damaged houses, and loss of eamings for those individuals whose home also doubled as a
place of work The loss of property-related documents also presents an immediate problem to the
victims for purposes of availing compensation and undertaking reconstruction. Additionally, the
earthquake's effects in Ahlnedad precipitated, at least in the short run, a sudden drop in the
demand for and prices of multi-story apartments. Housing finance sector and local property tax
revenues also experienced large losses.
* Education: Educational infrastructure and services were affected in 18 districts, especially in
Kutch, Rajkot, Surendranagar, Jamnagar, Ahndabad and Patan.  The lives of educational
administ   , teachers and students were disrupted both physically and emotionally. The total
amount of direct damage in the sector is approximately US$158 million, with greater damage
occuimng to elementary and secondary schools, than higher and technical education. While difficult
to quantify, indirect impacts of the earthquake include psychological trauma and social impact on
students, teachers and educational administrators, and the impact of lost time in the classroom
learning. The cost of setting up a counseling program alone, for students and teachers is estimated to
be US$3 million.
*   Dam Safety and Imigation: The earthquake caused widespread and severe damage to the water
storage and inigation infrastucture in Gujarat's Kutch district and, to a lesser extet in the
Saurashtra region. In Kutch, 21 earthen embanknents require complete reconstuction, while 164
earthen embankments require major or moderate repair and strengthening. In Saurashtra, 37 eartien
embankments suffered moderate to minor damage, necessitating repair and rehabilitation. Some
structures and linings in the canal networks, both in Kutch and Saurashtra, that suffered damages will
also require repairs. The damages are limited to earthen dams on medium and minor schemes,
generally to those constructed before 1970s under inadequate seismic engineering design standards.
Recently consructed dams for major schemes were not affected. Based on the assessment canied
out by GOG and the Central Water Commission, the total amount of damage is estimated to be
about US$40 milion, and the cost of reconstruction to upgraded modem seismic engineering
standards is about US$75 million.
*   Publc Buildings: Direct damage to state public buildings and historical monuments are estimated
at US$73.1 million. The spatial distribution of damage to administrative buildings and residential
quarters that belong to various line departments followed closely the damages in housing. The
buildings dtat collapsed were usually old, one or two-story high stuces with masonry walls.
Damaged buildings were spread over a larger geographically area, but were also, for the most paM
load-bearing structures. Damnage to historic structures, and by extension the impact on Gujarat's
cultural heritage, was significant While some monuments such as the 1000-year-old Rani Ki Vav
(the Queen's step well) in Patan survived unscatied, other invaluable structures collapsed. The
Roads and Buildings (R&B) Department and the Panchayat Department have prepared a shortterm.
program (18 months) and a medium-term program (3 years) for reconstruction of public buildings.
The formr includes provision of temporary office space, minor and major repairs and strengthening
damaged buildings, and preparation of designs for buildings to be reconstructed in the next two to



5
three years. Under the medium-tenm program the R&B Department would undertake reconstruction
of collapsed buildings to upgraded standards. In addition, a number of buildings of the Home
Department and a few buildings of urban local bodies, particularly in Kutch District wll be rebuilt to
upgraded standards. Reconstruction costs have been estinated at US$89 million.
Transport In comparison to other infrastructure sectors, the transport sector suffered relatively litde
earthquake related damage. Most of the transport infrastructure remained functional after the
earthquake. The preliminary cost of direct damage caused by the earthquake to the transport
infrastructure of Gujarat is about US$114 million: (a) roads -US$74 million; (b) railways -US$17
million; (c) ports - US$21 million and; (d) airports - US$2 million. Ports were the only transport
sub-sector that had identifiable indirect damage costs and these were estimated at about US$5
million.
Economic Impact
13. The loss of assets has been mnassive. Restoration of assets to standards resistant to earthquake and other
frequently recurring hazards, such as cyclones, though the government agencies will amount to about US$1.8
billion. The restoration cost of private assets, such as housing, and the asset base in agriculture, industry, and
services, and the cost of restoring public sector assets are almost equal. In contrast to the direct physical
damages, estimated output losses are smaller, ranging in aggregate between US$490 and US$660 million, or
2-3 percent of Gujarat's gross state domestic product (GSDP) over the next three years, with most of the
impact falling in FY2001-02.



6
2. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
14. TIe Bank has extensive experience in providing post-disastr reconstuction assistance, including several
disaster-related projects in India. In line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the post-earthquake
reconstruction assistance will support activities geared towards poveTty alleviation and infiastucture
rehabilitation. Moreover, the labor-intensive public works program will act both as a short-term income
generation vehicle and as a long-termr mitigating force against increased vulnerability. The activities to be
imnplenented under the emergency operation will also promote a disaster nitigation agenda and reduce future
loss of lives and assets. GOI and GOG have mobilized US$140 million for imnediate relief and rehabilitation
works, in addition GOI mobilized US$210 million in 2000-01 and US$260 million in 2001-02 through a 2
percent surcharge on incone tax. The private sector would also contribute up to 50 percent of the costs of
reconstruction of sonm 150 villages most affected by the earthquake. Despite these efforts much more
additional resources are required to address the massive devastation. This has led GOI and GOG to seek
support from the Bank
BANK RESPONSE
15. Inunediately after the earthquake, GOI requested the Bank's urgent intervention to help address the
unprecedented level of destruction. Responding to this, the Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
together with the Govemment of the Nethelands and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) undertook a review of GOG assessment and recast the preliminary damage and
reconstruction needs to be US$2.1 billion. The joint World Bank-ADB team also assisted GOG to develop
an efficient and cost effective strategy for rebuilding damaged ifistucture and services, providing livelihood
to a large number of very vulnerable households in a sustainable way and building adequate disaster
rmanagernEt capacity. A phased implementation of the stategy was also evolved, as part of this:
•  Fh% a Short Term Phase to support pnority areas that would address basic human needs and begin
the most pressing reconstruction works, including temporary shelter before the onset of monsoon,
debris removal, housing reconstruction, health, education, inigation/water storage, and public
buildings;
*   Second, a Medium Term Phase to continue and complete the reconstruction and recovery efforts
from the first phase emergency financing, initiate a medium-term emergency response program and
to lay down the foundation for sustainable long-term disaster management program; and
Third, a Long Term Phase to further strengthen capacity of the Gujarat State Disaster Management
Authority (GSDMA) for reducing and managing the natural hazards nsks faced by Gujamt, and pilot
implementation of risk transfer mechanisms.
16. Consistent with this approach, the Bank assisted GOG develop the Phase I operafions of the Gujarat
Earthquake Enrgmency Reconstruction Program (GEERP). The Board approved amendments to one Loan
and eleven Credit Agreements in March 2001 to finance Phase I by reallocating the proceeds of the
Loan/Credits under the projects financed by these Agreements. GOI has identified the Gujarat State Highway
Project (Ln. 4577-IN), the Second District Primary Education Project (Cr. 2876-IN), and the Reproductive
and Child Health Project (Cr. N018-IN) as requiring all or part of their original funding to achieve their
development objectives. As a result, out of the US$400 nillion mobilized for Phase I in March 2001, a
balance of US$261.6 nillion would renain available for Phase I after US$97 million, US$30 million and
US$114 million, respectively, have been reallocated to the orginal components of the three projects.
17. Phase I comprised assistance for housing reonstruction, health, education, dams & irrigation, roads &
bridges, public buildings, commrnunity participation support and disaster management capacity building. The



7
proposed Phase I[ is in line with the overall strategy and programmatic approach for a sustainable and long-
term reconstruction and restoration of mfin asntu , agreed with GOI and GOG. It will complement and
reinforce the interventions currently ongoing under Phase I operations, building on the lessons learned in the
process.
PROGRESS UNDER PHASE I EMERGENCY OPERATIONS
18. Substantial progress has been made in implementation of Phase L Funding from odter donors was
provided for the health and education components, and therefore, only partal fimding or no funding from the
Bank was required. An evaluation of Phase I has been a critical element in the preparation of the proposed
Project Some highlights of the progress under Phase I operations up to March 15, 2002 are summarized
below.
* Relief efforts by GOG was prompt and commendable: water supply was restored in 36 hours, power
supply in 48 hours, as were telecommunication facilities, rail and road trnusport in a short period of
time.
*   GSDMA was set up as early as February 2001 to serve as a nodal agency for coordinaing various
emergency reconstruction activities.
* An expenditure of about US$295 million has been made by GSDMA on the reconstruction. Based
on the withdrawal claims furnished by GOL US$152.1 million has been paid by the Bank Current
commitnents on the Bank financed activities amount to about US$206 million.
Housng
* Temporary shelter activities have been completed with provision of temporary shelters to over
348,000 families.
* Rubbles have been removed from all major towns and from most villages.
* Material Banks have been constituted for supplying quality building materials to eligible consumers,
and 1,082 material banks are currently operatng.
* Partal financial assistance has been provided to over 200,000 fanilies for reconstruction of fully
collapsed houses and to over 900,000 families to repair parutally collapsed houses. Reconstruction of
about 10,000 houses and repair of about 784,000 houses have been completed
* Independent technical audit and quality control mechanisms have been introduced
* Awareness building and education of communities and households as well as mass-scale training of
engineers and masons have been undertaken.
Health
* All essential services have been restored, with the construction of over 4,000 semi-permanent
structures.
* Almost half of the 2,300 damaged anganwadis have been repaired and work on others is
progressming.
* A state-of-the-art hospital is being constructed in Bhuj.
Education
* All 35,000 pnrmary schools were reopened on academic schedule.
* Reconstruction/rehabilitation to higher standards is beng undertaken for primary, secondary,
technical and higher education categories.
*   Relief activities m primary education icluded establishment of trauma relief centers m clusters of
schools, provision of tents and intemediate shelters for fully damaged schools.



8
*   Repair work has been completed in five dtricts and over 90 percent completed in 13 districts for
primary education.
*   Three colleges have been reconstucted and ten have been repaired.
Dam Safety & Inigation
*   Two dam safety review panels have been constited.
*   Short-term measures for safe retoration of dams have been completed before the monsoons for
three dams in Kutch and 60 dams in Saurashtra.
Public Buildings
* Work on general adninistrative buildings, home department buildings, panchayat buildings, heritage
buildings and monuments have been taken up.
*   General administrative buildings - rehabilitation work has included debris removal, provision of
temporary shelters, repair of 337 buildings and retrofitting of key buildings.
* Home department buildings - repair work has been completed for 175 buildings and is in progress
for 1,215 buildings, reconstruction of 337 buildings is in progress.
* Panchayat buildings - repair has been completed for 282 buildings and is in progress for 699
buildings.
Roads & Bridges
* Rehabilitation and strengthening of 185 km of roads have been taken up in 13 contract packages.
Substantal completion has been achieved in respect of 11 packages.
I   Strengthening of 57 major bridges, 115 minor bridges and 186 culverts is being taken up in seven
contract packages. Work has commenced on four packages.
Community Participation Support
*   Various infonmational, comnicational and educational activities have been undertakIc  by
GSDMA.
* Efforts to enhance conmunity participation in the planning and management of activities are being
made.
* Establishment of self-help suib-centers for supervising and monitoring construction activities has
been proposed.
* Public-private partnership has been forged with active NGO participation
Disaster Mnagement Capacity Building
* GSDMA has been set up as the nodal authority.
* A disaster management task force has been set up to review the national initiatives, various aspects of
rescue and relief including training, and the existing disaster management plans at district, taluka
(sub-district) and village levels.
* A master plan for chemical and nuclear disaster preparedness has been prepared.
* District level disaster management plans with comprehensive databases have been completed for 20
districts.
* A draft of the comprehensive Disaster Management Act has been prepared.



9
LESSONS LEARNED
19. Key lessons for post-disaster recovery projects noted in the Disaster Management Framework review of
Bank experience in disaster related projects3 include: (a) the speed of both appraisal and implementation is
crucial for success; (b) mitigation measures should always be included against a repeat disaster, (c)
procurement needs to be flexible, and procurernent managemnent needs to start early and, if possible, be
centralized in one agency; and (d) community involvement and participation are essential for successful
reconstuction work. Another review of emergency lending4 noted that (e) the simpler the design the better,
and (f) the institutional frameworc, and strategic management of emergency and reconstruction, is crucial for
project success. Recent experiences in Bangladesh (P-7264-BD) and Nicaragua (P-7279-NI) confinned that
flexibility in the design of recovery projects is necessary to permit changes as project implementation yields
more information, and emergency projects must be simple, rapidly executable, sharply focused, and not
burdened with conditionality.
Lessons Learnedfrom the Bank's Previous Emergency Operations in India
20. Major lessons learned from previous emergency operations in Endia, particularly from the Andhra
Pradesh Cyclone Emergency Reconstuction Project (Cr.2179/Ln.3260), the Maharashtra Emergency
Earhquake Rehabilitation Project (Cr.2594) and the Andhra PRadesh Hazard Mitigation and Emergency
Cyclone Recovery Project (Cr.295CVLn.4156) are:
(a) There is need for both flexibility and speed, and the establishing the increased capacity to improve
response capability to manage emergency events is cnrcial.
(b) The overall implementation performance is direcdy related to the government capacity to coordinate
multi-sector operations and processes.
(c) The project components to be implemented by the federal government shall preferably be separate from
the emergency recovery projects of the state, as the federal agencies often do not attach equal urgency to
the implementation of the state specific priorities. Should there be strong justification for including any
component to be implemented by the federal government, a longer period of implementation should be
considered.
Lessons Learnedfrom the GEERP - Phase I
21. The lessons leamed from the GEERP-Phase I have been recorded and incororated in the preparation
of the proposed Projec The key lessons learned from. the implementation of the ongoing Phase I are noted
below.
(a) The establishment of the high powered coordinating and management authority with comrmitted political
support has enabled GOG to undertake reconstruction in a concerted and determined manner. Its strong
presence and continuous support are important for both the physical reconstruction activities and disaster
mfanagement components.
(b) The implementation schedule should take into consideration the bureaucratic processes/compulsions and
the absorptive capacity of all implementing agencies and associated line departnents.
3 Gilbet, Roy and KmEir, Alcira; 'leaming from the World Bank's Experience of Naturl Disaster Related
Assistance", Urban Development Division, World Bank, May 1999, p. 17-18.
4 y,Uner, AlCirfa, 'essons Leaned from Emergency Lding" Enviro=nent Deparnt Workng Paper No. 1990-15,
World Bank, November 1990.



10
(c) The Operational Manual directives with respect to maintenance of accouts by vanous implenenting
agencies was extremely useful in settng uniform standards for efficient monitoring of funds, as the
agencies had been using vanous standards evolved over their past experience.
(d) A detailed procurement plan for each component should be prepared as quickly as possible to ensure
tirmly action m procurenent processng and start of worik
(e) Considerable human resouces are needed to educate the staff of the implementing agencies in
pro.enrnt guidelines and prcurcenEnt processing
(f) Fonnulation and adoption of a coherent, proactive and well-targeted commnunication and information
dissemnmation strategies at the start of implementation of erregency operations, along with tirmely access
to infornation are critical for the speedy and effective project implementation.
(g) A tight quality audit regime with quality check by independent teams is essential for large-scale
energency reconstruction of pnvate dwellmg units by the owners and for reconstrction of public
infrastructure.
(h)   e intoduction of mterim audits of exhenditures at the end of six months of project implementation and
availability of audit reports within two months of the end of the period audited was helpful to identify
control weaknesses and initiate appropriate improvenent measures by GOG at an early stage of project
implementation.



11
3. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTCOMES
22. The Project's objectives are to. (a) promote sustainable recovery in the disaster-affected areas, and (b)
lay the foundations for sustainable disaster management capacity in Gujarat The following development
outcomes are anticipated to be achieved through the proposed assistance: firt, vulnerability reduction
through infrastructure built to disaster-resistant standards; second, increased risk awareness and
preparedness of comnmunities to natural hazards, through access to more sustainable incomes and enhanced
knowledge of hazards and disaster reduction techniques; and third, enhanced emergency preparedness and
response capacity of responsible entities (such as fire and rescue brigades). The combination of these major
outcomes will result in saving lives and properties in future disasters and limit the negative impact on the
country's overall development
PRoJEcT COMPONENTS AND ESTIMATED COSTS
23. The Project's total cost is US$503.7 million including contingencies, of which Bank financing would
be US$442.8 million. The Project will include the following components:
Permanent Housing Reconstruction (US$197.2 million)
24. The permanent housing reconstruction program was the most critical component of Phase I Its
importance continues through Phase IL Under the Phase M L this component will finance implementation of
owner-driven housing recovery plans initiated under the Phase I for the partally damaged and fully collapsed
houses in the affected rural and urban areas. Assistance will be provided to repair about 75,000 partially
damaged houses and reconstruction of about 135,000 fully collapsed houses.
a) Activities supported under this component will be in line with the Housing Rehabilitation Policy
(HRP) and a Housing Recovery Implementaton Plan (HRIP) formulated by GOG and used as
guiding tool for facilitating both, total and partal reconstmction. I line with this, the permanent
housing reconstruction component will be driven by the following principles: (a) owner-driven
reconstruction; (b) restoration of damaged/destroyed houses with appropriate standards; (c)
provision of appropriate forms of technical support for multi-hazard resistant repair and
reconstruction; (d) introduction of independent audits for quality monitoring and improvements;
and (e) production of education and training materials.



12
b) The details of the overall housing reconstruction program under both phases are given in the table
below.
Table 2. Housing Reconstruction Summary
House aategwy*              GI         G2         G3          G4         GS         Tolal
(damage)                  (mutor)    (40%o)    (10-25%1)   (25-50%Yo)  (>50%)
Total no. of houses       438,335    267,343    154,560     111,300    233,660     1,205,198
ddamaged/destroyed
Rural Housing
Total o. of houses prposed   0         0        119,642     121,221     131,014    371,877
for Bank assistance
Average amount for         1,380      5,099      10,400     22,709      71,045        -
recorstruction(repair (in Rs.)
Total amount (in Rs. million)  0       0         1,244.3    2,763.7     9,307.9    13,315.9
Urban Housing
Total no. of houses proposed  0        0         30,610     207207      39,703      90,520
for Bank assistance
Average amount for         1,742      6,986      16,660     22,859      135,956       -
reconstmctionrrepair (in Rs.)
Total amount (in Rs nillion)  0        0         510.0       461.9      5,397.9     6,369.8
Total fimding required fom fthe Bank
Total no. of houses proposed  0        0        150,252     101,014     170,717    421,983
for Bank assistance
Total amount (in Rs million)  0        0         1,754.3    3,225.6     14,705.8    19,685.7
Total amount (in US$         0         0          362        665         3032       405.9
million)**
* House category refers to the following: GI - cracks up to ½2 inch width; G2 - damage up to 100%o; G3 - damage up to
25%; C4 - damage up to 50%o; G5 - comnpletely damaged house.
**Exchange rate of US$ 1.0 = Rs. 485
Repair of houses in category G1 and G2 is financed by GOG.
Source: GSDMA
25. The first installmnet (40 percent) of financial assistance shall be paid, in all cases, from the proceeds of
Phase L and the balance (60 percent) shall be paid as follows from the proceeds of the proposed Project
Repair/Reconstruction      Payment     Proress to be achieved
(a) Repair of about 75,000  60 percent  On engineer's certification of completion and confirmation by
partally damaged houses                independent audit.
(b) Reconstruction of about  40 percent  On engineer' s certification of completion up to plinth level
135,000 collapsed houses               conforing to earxhuake resistant standards and confmation by
independent audit.
20 percent  On engineer's certification of completion conforming to
earthquake resistant standards and confirmation by independent
audit



13
Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure (US$236.9 million)
26. This component will provide fumding for (a) repair, strengthening, rehabilitation, reconstruction and
upgrading, where necessary, of damaged public buildings, dams and inigation infrastructure, and roads and
bridges, in the earthquake affected areas, (b) retrofitting of undamaged government administration buildings
and public buildings of cntical importance such as schools, hospitals, fire stations, and the preparation of
detailed engineerng documentation for the retrofit of key bridges in seismic zones IV and V, and (c)
construction of buildings and control rooms necessary to foster emergency management in the State as well as
set-up the Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management (GIDM) under GSDMA and Institute for Seismic
Research (ISR). This component will also finance consulting services for planning and design of vital
institutional complexes, and quality assurance for consuction activities and for the inventory of hazardous
facilities, determination of the types of retrofitting measures for individual structural systems, third party
expert supervision arrangement and related environmental management activities.
a) Public Building (US$108.0 nillion): The public buildings sub-component proposes to supplement
the on-going efforts under Phase L through the reconstruction and strengthening of highly damaged
govemment-owned public buildings in earthquake affected areas, provision of funiture, consulting
services and other technical assistance. The objective of repairing and/or reconstructing government
buildings is to facilitate smooth and efficient continuation of administration. This is critical for overall
administrative purposes as well as for the efficient conduct of emergency reconstruction operations.
The buildings covered under this sub-component belong to: (a) state government
agencies/departments; and (b) urban/rural local bodies. In addition, the Project will also finance the
construction of highly essential, hazard resistant new buildings that required for GSDMA to foster
emergency management in the State, as well as set-up the proposed GIDM and ISR
Reconstruction & repair (US$72.4 million): Among public buildings, the Project will finance repair,
reconstruction and retrofitting of non-residential and residential buildings, along with essential
furiture, of various governmental departments in 12 districts to make them less vulnerable to
earthquakes and cyclones. This will include 519 mid-day meal kitchen sheds, six teachers training
institutes, and technical institutes of the Education Department, about 600 administrative buildings
and staff quarters of the Roads and Buildings Departnmt, 260 buildings of Panchayat (Rural Local
Govemment) Department and several buildings of the urban local bodies. With regard to the
buildings of the Home Depatnent, the Project will finance reconstruction and/or repair of both
residential and essential non-residential buildings, such as administrative buildings. These buildings
will be strengthened and reconstructed to multi-hazard resistant standards.
Retrofitting (US$25.7 million): The retrofitting sub-component will provide for anti-seismic and
anti-cyclone retrofitting for around 4,200 undamaged public buildings of critical importance, such as
schools, hospitals, government administration buildings, fire stations, and local govemrnment
buildings in the highly vulnerable seismic zones IV and V, and in other hazard-vulnerable areas. The
Project will also provide fumding for consulting services required for the inventory of hazardous
facilities, the determnation of the types of retrofitting measures for individual structural systems,
independent technical audit and quality assurance.
Construction of new buildings (US$9.9 million): This sub-component will include construction of
new buildings and control rooms, including essertial furniture, required for fostenng emergency
management in the State, as well as in setting up institutions such as GSDMA, GIDM and ISR This
component will also finance consulting services for planning, design and quality assurance for these
construction, as well as third party expert supervision arangement and quality control on the par
with other components of the program
b) Dam Safety and Irrigation (US$77.9 million): The earthquake caused severe and widespread
damage to the water storage and imigation infrastructure in the Kutch and Saurashtra regions. The
dam safety and irrigation subcomponent proposes to address this. It will finance techical assistance



14
including quality audit and project management support; and works for strengthening of 222 earthen
dams (185 dams in Kutch and 37 dams in Saurashtra) and appurtenant structures to resist/withstand
earthquakes (of similar magnitude) and cyclones. The detailed measures required to strengthen these
dams will be based on the recommendations of the two Dam Safety Review Panels and the on-
going preparatory activities such as soil testing, designing and estimating, which are supported under
Phase L
c) Roads and Bndges (US$51.0 miDlion): The damages to roads from the earthquake included
settlement of pavement, cracking and raveling on bitumninous surfaces, and depressions and potholes,
leading to poor residual strength of pavement The structures along these roads were also affected.
Additionally, the heavy traffic resulting from the intensive construction work of the past few months
has necessitated early rehabilitation and maintenance of these roads and associated structures. The
roads and bridges subcomponent provides for the restoration of essential transport network
infrastructure by financing the rehabilitation and strengthening of 700 km of state roads and
associated structures in nine affected districts; the preparation of detailed project reports; and
independent technical audits of the works undertaken.
Community Participation (US$12.5 million)
27. Gujarat has a history of community involvement in the imnplementation of developmental programs, with
a strong network of NGOs and CBOs. The proposed Project aims to ensure the participation of all earthquake
affected communities, especially the most vulnerable groups, in the planning, decision-making and
implementation of the reconstuction program so that they can obtain their due share of benefits, including
information, housing assistance, and access to public ifiastucture and services. This would be achieved
through (a) infonmation7 communication and education activities; (b) establishment of village-level sub-
centers to build capacity for earthquake-resistant construction, and to form self-help groups that would
monitor the program and be responsible for disaster preparedness in the future; (c) strengthening of local
government mechanisms to undertake social audit and ensure transparency; (d) gender sensitization
workshops for all functionaries involved and in communities; (e) community-based disaster preparedness
program covening the identification of risks, vulnerable areas and people; formulating plans; training in search
and rescue, relief, warning, evacuation, and medical assistance teams; establishment of local waming systems
and emergency response equipment, village drills, and so on.
28. A number of social development activities will also be supported under.this component; among them are:
the launching of sizeable information and education campaigns; setting up of self-help sub-centers (SETUs) in
villages for monitoring construction activities; specific gender sensitizing activities; strengthening of Gram
Sabhas (village-level stakeholder assemblies); and capacity building of conmmnity level disaster
preparedness. These activities are placed within an overall community participation strategy (CPS), with
appropriate institutional arrangements identified for their implementation. The CPS will include (a)
communications, (b) outreach to communities, (c) community organization, (d) participatory activities, (e)
capacity building, (f) tansparency and grievance redressal, and (g) social needs and impact assessment
(monitoring).
29. There would be large volumes of print and audio-visual materials produced, training courses, workshops,
meetings and demonstrations held, consultants and travel entailed and financial support to community
organizations provided (US$6.1 million). Purchase of emergency kits for 2,000 villages, containing essential
waring devices for timely notification and evacuation of people at risk, and provision of major emergency
kits for one hundred clusters of villages would be supported (US$64 million).
Disaster Management (US$51.1 million)
30. After the experience of the devastating earthquake, GOG intends to adopt a holistic approach to disaster
management with focus on reducing risk and vulnerability through policy, legislation, capacity building,
education and communication to avoid/reduce the impact of disasters and achieve better preparedness.



15
Prevention, mitigation and preparedness will be given attention to reduce the impact of disasters. GOG has
prepared a draft of the Disaster Management Policy and the Disaster Management Bill to ensure long-term
comrmitment for disaster mitigation. The Project will assist GOG in fostenng awareness, education and
mnassive training provided in Phase L and will establish the necessary building blocks for Phase LlL the
projected freestanding disaster management operation. Targeting cyclone, flood, earthquake, and drought as
main hazards, this component will finance the establishment of a professional emergency management
program, and the preparation of Phase IML
31. Under the Disaster Management Component three major activities are addressed: (a) Emergency
Management; (b) Hazard Mitigation and Risk Transfer Activities; and (c) Development of Disaster
Management Institutions.
(a)   Emergency Management (US$41.3 million) subcomponent has been further classified in three
different activities: (i) feasibility studies (ii) institutional consolidation, and (iii) setting up of emergency
response system.
(i)   Feasibdity studies (US$0.6 million): Feasibility studies are supported mainly as building blocks
for setting up emergency response system in the state. This includes four different studies related to
various aspects of emergency preparedness and response: (a) emergency communication, forecasting
and early waming system, (b) emergency response centers; (c) disaster management act, land use and
new building codes; and (d) damage and loss assessment methodologies.
(ii)  Instional consolidain (US$0.5 million): Institutional consolidation, including institutional
capacity assessment and operationalizing an emergency mnagement system.
(iii) Setting up of Emergency Response System: The state-wide emergency response mechanism
will be strengthened with setting up of control roorn, communication network and early waming
system and regional Emergency Response Centers and the provision of essential equipment for search
and relief operations.
Control room communication network and eady waming system (US$17.0 million): In order to
respond to any disaster situation, early waming systems, communication networks and control rooms
are the basic inrasinicture. Under this component, control rooms and early warning systems of the
state will be strengthened. Communication network and control rooms will be interconnected through
a large area network and provided with the latest equipments to work as an alternative in the event of
failure of all regular means of communication in disaster situations.
Setting up of regional Emergency Response Centers and physical strengthening of municipal
corprations emergency response mechanism (US$23.2 million): Under this sub component five
Emergency Response Centers will be supportei Four centers will be specialized in multi-hazard
response and one will be dedicated to tackle chemical disasters. Out of four centers, three would be
regional centers (multi-hazard regional rsponse centers), to be established in Rajkot catering to
Saurashtra-Kutch region, in Surat catering to south Gujarat region, and in Ahmeabad catering to
North Gujarat region. One special center will be dedicated exclusively to Kutch, which is in Zone V in
terms of earthquake vulnerability. Another regional center specialized in chemical disasters will be set
up in Vadodara, which is the most industrialized district in the state. In addition, the emergency
response capacities of municipal corporations that are at presently not well-equipped for emergency
operations (even low intensity disasters), will be enhanced, both professionally and technically.
Essential equipment such as hydrulic platform, hydraulic telescopic crane, emergency rescue van with
equipment, hydraulic rescue tools of the fire and rescue brigades shall be purchased for search and
relief operations.
(b) Hazard Mftlgation and Risk Transfer Activities (US$4.4 million): This subcomponent will
help prepare long-term disaster mitigation strategies of GOG. The Project supports a paradigm shift to
focus more on disaster mitigation issues as opposed to relief strategies. The proposed subcomnponent
will include studies and activities related to mitigation, namely: (a) digital hazard maps for earthquake,



16
flood, drought and cyclone; (b) inventories of hazardous buildings in major urban areas and strategies
for ietrofitting privately-owned buildings (with special emphasis on multi-story apartrent blocks,
business establishments, industrial plants) and publicly-owned lifelines (e.g., power stations, water
reservoirs); (c) regulatory studies on strengthening building codes and institutionalizing their improved
enforcement; and (d) procedures for community-based disaster management planning (process and
plans), for the taluka (subdrict), the district and the state level; and (e) risk transfer and insurance.
(c)   Development of Disaster Management Institutions (US$5.4 million): This component will
facilitate the participation of all critical stakeholders in disaster management process by strengthening
training and awareness, research, documentation and infonnation dissemination system This will be
done on a sustainable basis by strengthening GSDMA, establishing GIDM and ISR. This component
will support the preparation of disaster management plans at the state, district and community levels,
and also the setting up of a digitized database system
(i) GSDMA: The bill related to GSDMA which will provide legal status to it and nmke it the key
agency responsible for disaster nmnagement in the state, is under discussion. As the key authority in
the state, GSDMA will coordinate all the proposed activities, emergency as well as nitigation related,
under the Project, as well as the control rooms and regional response centers, in both regular and
emergency situations. A central control room will also be housed in the premises of the
GSDMA. This subcomponent will support the necessary equipments to help GSDMA coordinate all
activities related to disaster management plan preparation process.
Disaster Management Plans: Under this, the preparation of state, district, taluka and community level
disaster management plans will be supported. These disaster management plans, along with the
Standard Operational Procedures will lead to short and long term strategies to reduce vulnerability to
disasters.
(ii) GIDM: The lnstitute will function as the nodal center for research and hunan resource
development in the area of disaster mitigation and response. There is no such institution currently in
the state. The Institute will network with intemational, national, state level training institutions and
NGOs involved in disaster managernent AU the training research, documentation and creation of
database related to disastr management activities will be done by the GIDIvL
Training and informtion dissemiation: Under this, continued support will be provided for trmining
and capacity building activities started in Phase L including the training of government engineering
cadre, panchayat engineering cadre, engineers employed for reconstruction and other activities,
architects and planners, NGOs, and faculty mnembers in various engineering colleges. Information
manuals and booklets will also be prepared for educating masons and the public at large. This will also
include training of the project staff associated with flood forecasting and monitoring, and training of
village/taluka level govemment functionaries on various aspects of disaster management The Project
will support the necessary pedagogical materials and equipments.
Geographic Information System (GIS): The Project will support developing a detailed GIS containing
all the essential data regarding disasters, manpower, equipment and other inventory relating to disaster
response. The Project will provide the appropriate information technology equipment
(iii) ISR: A proposal for setting up such an institute has been submitted by GOG to GOI in April
2001. GOI has agreed to set up ISR in Gujarat under the aegis of Department of Science and
Technology, GOI The Project will support development of sophisticated seismological capacity
comparable to intemational standards. Since Gujarat falls under highly vulnerable seismic zones
(Zones V and IV), the institute will study and disseminate information related to eathquake prediction,
monitoring, computation and observation network The Project wil provide the necessary scientific
equipment, as required



17
Project Management (US$6.0 million)
32. This component will finance GSDMA's incremental operating costs associated with the implementation
of housing, community participation and disaster management. In addition, it would finance purchase of
equipment and vehicles and consulting services, including those for training, quality assurance, monitoring
and evaluation, environmental and social assessment, and audits among others.
33. Environmental and Socal Development Aspects. A management framework has been developed to
address the environmental aspects of reconstruction work  The framework attempts to maximize the
oppatunities for enhancing project components and mitigating potential impacts upstream, while recognizing
the constraints imposed by an emergency reconstruction effort Within the context of the agreed
environmental management framework, an Environmental and Social Analysis (ESA) examined more
closely the environmental and social issues most relevant to the proposed Project. The ESA findings and the
proposed nature of Bank support were the basis for preparing a comprehensive Environmental Management
Plan (EMP), which will provide the framework for environmental and social impact nitigation and
monitoring measures throughout project implementation. The Project's main environmental issues are linked
to managing debris, rubble and reconstruction waste materials and to minimizing and managing the impacts
of the reconstruction work itself.
34. The Social Needs and Impact Assessment process that was initiated in Phase I would continue to identify
affected peoples' needs (especially of vulnerable groups such as women, children, lower castes, tribes,
minorities, the physically-challenged and elderly), and the program's positive and negative social impacts on
all stakeholders. Its findings would be used by project management to ensure that these groups are
participating in the program, their needs being met, benefits equitably distributed, and impact achieved in
terms of information and technology transfer, housing restoration, access to public facilities and services, and
social capital development for future disaster preparedness and management The conmunity participation
component of the Project consists of several activities to ensure inclusion, equity and social capital
development among the earthquake-affected. In addition, a Social Management Plan has been prepared as
part of the ESA, covering these aspects as well as issues related to displacement (primary and secondary) and
the special needs of tribal (indigenous) people. Details of the status and proposals related to meeting the
Bank's safeguards on Involuntary Resettlement and Indigenous People are given in the Technical Annex,
Attachment 1, Social Development



18
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING SUMMARY
Table A: Project Summary Cost
US$ Million                          Rs MiNlion
Project Component     LAl        Foreign     Total       Loc         Foreig       Total
A. Repairs and          161.5         8.5       170.0     7,932.5       417.5       8,350.0
reconsruction of
permanent housing
B. Reconstruction of    183.4        11.4       194.8     9,233.0       570.0       9,803.0
public infiastructure
C. Community              8.7         1.7        10.4      435.5         84.5        520.0
participation
D. Disaster Management   10.7        30.8       41.5       542.0       1,563.0      2,105.0
E. Project Management     4.2         0.8        5.0       209.5         40.5        250.0
Sub-Total               368.5        53.2      421.7     18,352.5      2,675.5     21,028.0
Physical Contingencies  36.95         5.3       42.2      1,835.2       267.6       2,102.8
Price Contingencies      33.7         6.1       39.8      1,700.4        3102       2,010.6
Total                   439.1        64.6      503.7     21,888.1      3,253.3     25,141.4
NOTE: Pnce contingencies and exchange rates are taken from the Memo dated August 13, 2001 from the
Country Director, India to India Staff on India. Exchange Rates and Pnce Contingencies for Project Analysis.
Table B: Financing Plan by Project Components
US$ Million
Project Component            Total Cost            IDA Finace           Government Finance
(induding condngendes)
A. Repais and                      197.2                 177.5                      19.7
reconstruction of penmanent
housing
B. Reconstruction of public        236.9                212.1                       24.8
inflastructure
C. Community participation          12.5                  9.0                        3.5
D Disaster Management               51.1                 40.0                       11.1
E. Project Management                6.0                  4.2                        1.8
Total                              503.7                442.8                       60.9



19
Table C: Cost Table
Table C: Cost Table
US$ million
Base            2002                  2003                 2004                2005
Cost     Total   Forei n |Local  Total |Foreign|Local  Total IForeignILocal I Total iForeign Local
Component A: Housing               170.011   123.201  6.161 117.041  46.811  2.341 44.47  0.001  0.001 0.001  0.001  0.00  0.0t
Component B: Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure
81. Education
Technical Education Works W          8.85      0.62   0.03   0.59   1.89   0.09  1.80    4.50   0.23 4.28   1.83   0.09  1.74
Goods G             2.05      0.41   0.08   0.33   0.80   0.16  0.64    0.84   0.17 0.67   0.00   0.00  0.00
Cons. C             0.12      0.12   0.06   0.06   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00 0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
nicipal Schools  Works W             0.93      0.31   0.02   0.29   0.62   0.03  0.59    0.00   0.00 0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
Cons. C             0.08      0.04   0.00   0.04   0.04   0.00  0.04    0.00   0.00 0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
Municipal Corporation Works W        0.10      0.09   0.00  0.09    0.01   0.00  0.01    0.00   0.00 0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
[B2 Public Buildin 5
State Buildings  Works W            31.88      7.62   0.38   7.24  18.15   0.91 17.24    6.11   0.31 5.80   0.00   0.00  0.00
Goods G             1.99      0.10   0.01   0.10   0.80   0.04  0.76     1.09  0.05 1.04   0.00   0.00  0.00
Cons. C             1.51      0.51   0.00   0.51   0.60   0.00  0.60    0.40   0.00 0.40   0.00   0.00  0.00
Panchayat Buildings Works W          2.21      1.23   0.06   1.17   0.98   0.05  0.93    0.00   0.00 0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
Cons. C             0.04      0.02   0.00   0.02   0.02   0.00  0.02     0.00  0.00 0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
Police Buildings  Works W            7.40      3.10   0.16   2.95   4.30   0.22  4.09    0.00   0.00 0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
Goods G             0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00 0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
Cons. C             0.12      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.08   0.00  0.08     0.04  0.00 0.04   0.00   0.00  0.00
Municipal and Others Works W         1.85      0.51   0.03   0.48   0.90   0.05  0.86    0.44   0.02 0.42   0.00   0.00  0.00
Goods G             0.02      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.00  0.01    0.01   0.00 0.01   0.00   0.00  0.00
Cons. C             0.12      0.06   0.00   0.06   0.04   0.00  0.04     0.02  0.00 0.02   0.00   0.00  0.00
Disaste;Managernent Works W          7.83      0.00   0.00   0.00   6.83   0.34  6.49     1.00  0.05 0.95   0.00   0.00  0.00
Institutes       Goods G             0.20      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.10   0.01  0.10    0.10   0.01 0.10   0.00   0.00  0.00
Cons. C             0.24      0.10   0.00   0.10   0.10   0.00  0.10     0.04  0.00 0.04    0.00  0.00  0.00
[B3. Retrofittin
State Buildings  Works W             4.31      1.57   0.08   1.49   2.67   0.13  2.54    0.07   0.00 0.07   0.00   0.00  0.00
Cons. C             0.11      0.04   0.00   0.04   0.06   0.00  0.06     0.01  0.00 0.01    0.00  0.00  0.00
Panchayat Buildings Works W          4.02      1.36   0.07   1.29   2.66   0.13  2.53     0.00  0.00 0.00   0.00   0.00  0.0
Cons. C             0.10       0.04  0.00   0.04   0.06   0.00  0.06     0.00  0.00 0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00
Municipal Schools  Works W          12.27      0.00   0.00   0.00   6.32   0.32  6.00     5.95  0.30 5.65    0.00  0.00  0.00
Health centers and  Cons. C          0.14      0.02   0.00   0.02   0.06   0.00  0.06     0.06  0.00 0.06    0.00  0.00  0.00
dispensaries
B4. Dam Safety & Irri ation |
Strengthening of Dam Works W        63.80     14.33   0.72  13.61  45.52   2.28 43.24     3.95  0.20 3.75    0.00  0.00  0.00
QA Consultants   Cons. C             1.00      0.12   0.06   0.06   0.80   0.40  0.40     0.08  0.04 0.04    0.00  0.00  0.00



20
B5. Roads and Bridges
Rehabilitation of RoadWorks W      39.48      2.05   0.10   1.95  26.89   1.34 25.55   10.54   0.53 10.01  0.00   0.00  0.00
and Bridges      Cons. C            2.01       0.97  0.49   0.49   0.86   0.43  0.43    0.19   0.10 0.10   0.00   0.00  0.00
omponent C: Communi Participation
Cl Community partici Goods G        5.46       2.71  0.68   2.03   2.75   0.69  2.06    0.00   0.00 0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
and capacity building Cons. C       1.80       0.53  0.05   0.48   1.06   0.11  0.95    0.21   0.02 0.19   0.00   0.00  0.00
Other 0            3.13       0.41   0.02  0.39    1.00  0.05  0.95     1.72  0.09 1.63   0.00   0.00  0.00
Component D: Disaster Management
Dl Disaster Managem Goods G        32.98      0.00   0.00   0.00  23.37  18.70  4.67    9.62   7.70 1.92   0.00   0.00  0.00
Cons. C            6.61       2.26   1.36  0.90    3.69  2.21  1.48     0.67  0.40 0.27   0.00   0.00  0.00l
Other 0            1.95       0.00   0.00  0.00    1.00  0.25  0.75     0.77  0.19 0.58   0.18   0.05  0.14
Component E: Project Management
El GSDMA operating cost             2.22       1.44  0.07   1.37   0.40   0.02  0.38    0.38   0.02 0.36   0.00   0.00  0.00
E2 Project management consultants   2.79       1.03  0.26   0.77   1.00   0.25  0.75    0.77   0.19 0.58   0.00   0.00  0.00
Base Cost Rs Million      421.73    166.94  10.93 156.011 203.21  31.52 171.681  49.56  10.60 38.961  2.02  0.14  1.88
Base Cost + Physical Contingency  463.90     183.63  12.02 171.61  223.53  34.67 188.85  54.52  11.66 42.86  2.22  0.15  2.07
Price Contingencies                39.82      6.43   0.42   6.01  23.47   3.64 19.83    9.40   2.01 7.39   0.52   0.04  0.48
Total cost wth all contingencies  503.72     190.06  12.44 177.62  247.00  38.31 208.68  63.92  13.67 50.25  2.74  0.19  2.55



21
4. STUDIES AND TECHNCIAL ASSISTANCE
35. The proposed Project supports several studies and technical assistance for the: (a) development of
necessary policy and strategy fiameworks for various aspects of disaster and emergency management,
including of the regulatory and institutional frameworks and preparation of strategic plans; (b) planning and
design of engineerng college and polytechnic institute in Bhuj, control rooms and other items such as public
buildings, roads and bridges, dams and inigation infrastrcture, GIDM and ISR and introducing new
technologies as needed; (c) technical and quality audit of various components through independent audits; and
(d) assessment of social and environmental impacts on the stakeholders. A summary of the key studies is
given below.
Disaster Management
36. Feasibility Studies: These studies intend to assist in setting up emergency response system in the state.
This includes four different studies related to various aspects of emergency preparedness and response. The
scope of these studies is given below.
Emergency Communication, Forecasting And Early Warning System
Emergency communcation and early warning system: The existing emergency communication
system will be studied and analyzed to develop an appropnate emergency conmmucation system for
establishment in the state.
Cyclone forecasts and real time waning: Early and advance waning regarding occunrence of any
disaster helps in saving lives and property. The study will focus on all aspects of early waming
mechanisms for cyclones, for adoption by the state govemment
Information technology for disaster management The study will focus mainly on the use of
information technology used in the collection and dissemination of information, management of
emergency situation and in awareness building process especially in the specialized area of disaster
management
Emergency Response Centers
Studyfor Energency Response Centers: The study will identify the locations, roles and responsibilities,
fiameworks, mechanisms and equipment for networking and coordination with different stakeholders,
for the proposed emergency response centers.
Legal and Regulatory Franework for Disaster Management
Preparation of Disaster Management Act providing statutory powers to GSDMA: GSDMA, which
was constituted by a govemrment order, is now proposed to be made into a statutory body. Under the
study, the regulatory framework related to powers and authority of GSDMA will be developed for
institutionalizing disaster management mechanisms in the state.
Review of building codes and land use micro-zoning: GOG is talkng initiative to review the building
codes and formulate a disaster management act in the state, the first of its kind in the country. The
study will review the existing relief code, building code, land use planming laws and develop new codes
and laws, and assist the preparation of disaster management act for the state
Improving building permits and enforcement regime: Leaming from the present disaster GOG has
decided to reform the process of issuing pernits for new constructions and enforcement of building
codes in the state. The study will focus on developing a safe and sound building permit regime for
adoption in the state.



22
Damage and LOss Assessnet Methodologies
Damage Assessment Methodology The study will focus and analyze various methods used for
damage assessment in the disaster situations and develop scientific methods to obtain an accurate
estimation of damage.
Hazard Mitigation and Risk Transfer
37. The Project supports a paradigm shift to focus more on disaster mitigation issues as opposed to relief
strategies. The proposed component will include studies and activities that will support the development of
long term disaster mitigation strategies in the state. This includes:
Risk Transfer and Insurance: The study wil help GOG build the Gujarat Disaster Insurance Program
It will also focus on draft regulations detailing principles of the disaster fund flow, identify the potential
level of threat to economy and finance due to natural disasters. The study will explore ways to promote
risk sharing and transfer mechanisms (Le. insurance and reinsurance).
Vubnerabiliy Anaysis: Under the proposed study a detailed mapping of the state based on hazard, risk
and vulnerability analysis will be done. This will also include an inventory of hazardous factories in the
state. An atlas will be developed with the detailed vulnerability maps.
Drought pastern forecast: Drought is a silent emergency, but entirely different from other disasters.
This study will develop an early warring mechanism to identify different stages of drought and its
severity, for determining mitigation and respose mechanisms.
Seismic micro-zoning: Parts of Gujarat fall under Zone V category of seismic vulnerability. The study
will focus on seismic micro zoning to design the short term and long term interventions for minimizing
the impact of the earthquake.
Short-tenn and long-term mitigation measures: GOG is taKing several initiatives to minimize the loss
due to disaster in the state. The study wil aim to recommend various mitigation measures that could be
implemented in the state, consistent with the new disaster management policy.
Public Buildings
38. Support will be provided in planning and design studies for reconstruction of earthiuake damaged
Engineering College in Bhuj and Polytechnic Institute in Bhuj and for construction of buildings and control
roomis to foster emergency management as well as setting-up of GSDMA, GIDM and ISR. Support will also
be provided for peparation of inventory of hazardous faciities and the determination of the types of
retrofitting measures for individual structural systems.
Dam Safety and Irrigation
39. Support will be provided for the strengthening/reconstnction of earthquake affected dams in Saurashtra
and Kutch region. Since the imigation schemes are scattered in large geographical area, the technical
assistance will provide support to GOG to monitor progress and ensure strengthening/reconstuction of the
dams following the appropriate standards.
Roads and Bridges
40. Support will be provided for the execution of repair works for roads and damaged minor bridges and
protection structures along the roads, in nine eartquake affected districts. ThiFs wi include identification of
damages and rectification/remedial measures, for foundations, sub-stuctures and super structures.
41. Expressions of interests from consulting firms have been invited for all the major studies mentioned
above and the consultants terms of reference is under peparation. P osals have been invited from the short
listed firms for quality assurance and monitoring support for the dam safety works. Invitation of proposals
from short listed firms for investigation, design and praration of bidding documents for roads and bridges is
being issued. Requests for proposals for all major consulting studies, including those related to disaster
management are expected to be issued by end of May 2002.



23
5. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
PROJECT PREPAREDNESS
42. The experiences of prepanng and implementing the Phase I operations of GEERP have provided
invaluable support in the preparation of the proposed Project As outlined earlier, the progress on various
components under Phase I has been satisfactory. The Phase II Project will essentially continue the work
inifiated under Phase I with the exception of retrofitting of undamaged public buildings in the vulnerable
seismic zones IV and V, and other hazard-vulnerable areas. Preparation of all project components has been
undertaken under the Phase L thus providing adequate synergy and time lag for successful preparation. The
preparation of the housing reconstruction program is also linked to the on-going work under Phase L and
therefore benefits from adequate preparedness. The Project Inplementation Plan (PIP) prepared by GSDMA
outlines the implementation of the IDA assisted reconstruction program, of which the proposed Project is a
part of. An updated PIP will be furnished to the Bank by April 15, 2002.
OVERALL INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
43. GOG established GSDMA in February 2001, to coordinate and manage the comprehensive earthquake
recovery program GSDMA is registered as a society and is chaired by the Chief Minister. A State Advisory
Committee consisting of distinguished experts from different fields, guides GSDMA on all aspects of
reconstruction policy and implementation. Within the Govemment, a Central Implementation and Review
Group, under the chaimnanship of the Chief Secretary, reviews and monitors the program implementation on
a regular basis. At the district level, the district administration, presided by the Collector, is responsible for the
implementation of the program An Advisory Committee headed by the In-charge Minister of the district
provides gtudance to the district administration in program implementation. At the taluka-level, Additional
Collectors/Additional District Development Officers with delegated powers of the Collector and District
Development Officers are responsible for program implementation, while at the village-level, an officer of the
rank of Deputy Mamlatdar is responsible for coordination of implementation.
44. GSDMA Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is responsible for the overall management and implementation
of the proposed Project. The CEO exercises all the executive powers for the implementation of works, and
the procurement of goods and services. As GSDMA is still a new entity, efforts to strengthen its institutional
capacity are being initiated under the Phase I and will be continued under the Project. Studies have been
completed towards designing GSDMA's organization structure, as well as provide it with the statutory
authority for carrying out satisfactorily the duties assigned to it. A number of management, technical, and
accounting consultants have been engaged to support GSDMA in its regular functioning.
45. The execution of works, and the procurement of goods and services for specific components are done by
the responsible line departments, with overall coordination and monitoring by GSDMA. Each line
department implementing infrastructure rehabilitation components has formed a Project Implementation Cell
to monitor and manage the sector program At the field level, engineering circles are strengthened to
undertake and complete the works within the specified period. The staff in a number of line deparinents,
including Roads and Buildings (R&B), education, water resoures and urban development, have prior
experience of implementing Bank financed projects, and are generally conversant with the Bank procurement
guidelines. Additionally, they are provided training, as required. Each department indicating the staff and
consultant needs for engineering design and supervision, and management costs prepares an action plan.
Quality audit, design audit and completion audit by a thid party has been built into the system



24
Fig. 1. Overall Institutional Arrangements
Disaster Management
Capacity Buflding        \                      I                    /
GSDMA: 
Consultants
NGO's                                      Revenue dept                                 Roads & Buildings Dept
Water Resources Dept.
Commnunity                                         4                                        | ---- Home Departnent
Urban Dev. Dept
DishiictAdmin.     ]         |    Collector                        DDO                      Technical Education
Panchayat Department
Manmlatdar                        TDO
INsTnTUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR INDIVEDUAL COMPONENTS
Permanent Housing Reconstruction
46. Housing recovery program will be implernented by the Revenue Departent in nral areas and by the
Urban Development Department in urban areas as per implementation an-angements agreed for and based on
the success of Phase L GSDMA wil coordinate housing recovery program and will continue to perforn the
following functions associated with housing rehabilitation: (a) coordiate state-wide housing recovery
program with the many entities, including the relevant line departments; NGOs, private sector small
contrctors and large industrial houses, banks, financing institutions and micro-finance institutions; (b) provide
policy guidance; (c) manage financial resources and disburse funds to the decentralized centers, as
apprpriate; (d) ensure tight quality control in aspects of housing construction, financial management,
procurement, and facilitate independent audits; (e) coordinate overall standards in the housing reconsuction
process for all the participants in the public-private pantnership program; (f) provide and/or facilitate
appropriate technical assistance for all aspects of program implementation; (g) manage housing program
related databases; (h) coordinate community outreach and public relations for the programn; (i) provide overall



25
process and quality supervision and monitoring, and ensure that these fumctions operate properly at the
decentralized levels; and () ensure that processes are in place for two-tiered grievance redressal mechanisms.
47. An owner-driven decentralized implementation approach has been adopted for housing reconsttuction
implementation, with the District Collector coodinating implementation activities at the distict level, R&B
engineers for technical supervision and certification of construction, and Village Committees at the local level
for facilitating implementation and ensurng community oversight The communities, NGOs and juiior
engineers at the local level and R&B engineers at the district level will carry out supervision and monitoring
of all aspects of construction. An independent quality audit by National Council for Cement and Building
Materials (NCCBM) will be carried out for this component
Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure
48. Public Buildings - Reconstruction: Entire rehabilitation work is classified under three major categories:
(a) minor repairs, (b) major repair and retrofitting, and (c) reconstruction. All minor repairs work would be
completed under Phase L Primaiy Education Department, Higher & Technical Education Depatrtent R&B
Department, R&B (Panchayat) Department, Home Department and Urban Development (UD) Department
are responsible for implementation of this subcomponent
49. Repair & reconstruction: The mid-day meal (MDM) kitchen sheds will be repaired/econstucted by the
Village Civil Works Committee (VCWC) in the District Pnrmary Education Project (DPEP) districts. Rajkot
being the only non-DPEP district, VCWCs will be established in the villages, modeled after the successful
DPEP model, especially for repair and reconsiuction of the MDM kitchens. All DPEP VCWCs are well
experienced in undertaking small building works and have already successfully demonstrated their capability
in the repair and reconstruction of school buildings financed by various donors. The system and process of
civil works construction using Bank norms is already in place under DPEP. The ratings for implementation
capacity and project management under the DPEP in Gujarat have been satisfactory.
50. The implernenting agency for the reconstruction and repair of teacher training colleges, and the
government technical education institutions will be the Department of Higher & Technical education.
Innovative designs have been prepared for technical education under the earlier World Bank Technical
Education Project L These and the designs for teacher training colleges which have to be newly created, shall
be earthquake and cyclone resistant While the R&B Departnient will be responsible for repair, due to its
limited implementation capacity in the context of the overall workload services of consultants will be obtained
to prepare plans, designs, and bidding documents.
51. R&B Department will implement strengthening and reconstruction works of all state government
buildings other than those of the Home Department. Architectural plans of various buildings to be
reconstructed shall be prepared through the office of the Chief Town Planner and the Architectural Advisor
under the R&B Dpartme, and the structural designs for these buildings will be done by the design
organization of the R&B Department. Both organizations possess the necessary capacity and have already
made progress in their works. R&B will engage consultants for structural design for major repair works of
some of the residential and non residential buildings where non-estructive tests are to be conducted to
determine the strength of the building stucture to withstand the earthquake and wind stonm The works will
be camied out through contracts and will be supervised by the R&B department engineers. Consultants will
be hired for technical and quality audit for all major repairs and reconstruction works.
52. R&B (Panchayat) will implement the reconstruction of 260 buildings of the Panchayat Department This
Departent has already taken-up a nurnber of reconstruction of buildings in strict compliance with the
technical requirement for earthquake and cyclone resistant standards, and in line with the Bank procurement
guidelines. A consultant is being hired for quality audit
53. The repair and reconstruction of administrative buildings, residential quarters, and procurement of
furiture and technical assistance, etc. for the Home Department will be undertaken by the Gujarat State
Police Housing Corporation (GSPHC) . The agency is experienced in planning, designing and supervising
building construction. However, it is not familiar with guidelines and procedures applicable to Bank funded
projects, and this is expected to cause some delays in implementation. This will be mitigated through training



26
of the staff in procurement, disbursement and financial management aspects of Bank assisted projects, as well
as by using consultants, where requiued Third party quality assurance for all reconstruction works will be
used to ensure quality construction compliant with the earthquake and cyclone resistant standards.
54. Vanous municipal corporations and municpalities on behalf of the Urban Development Department will
carry out reconstruction of their buildings. While Ahnndabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has capacity to
undertake the engineering, procurement and constrction by themselves, other pardcipating municipal
corporations and municipalities will need techiical assistance in the reconstruction effort Third party quality
assurance will be used for all reconstruction works to ensure compliance with the earthquake and cyclone
resistant standards.
55. Public Buildings - Relrofiffing: R&B Departernt shall be responsible for state government buildings,
R&B (Panchayat) Department for panchayat buildings, and UD Departrent for the buildings of urban local
bodies. Each of them will act under a common principle and under the supervision of GSDMA.
56. The respective line departments with required information will conduct a detailed inventory of hazardous
buildings. GSDMA will hire consultants to assess the buildings for seismic and cyclone vulnerability, and
identify those that should become part of the retrofit program GSDMA will compile the lists of hazardous
buildings that should qualify for the retrofit, according to perceived levels of building's vulnerabity. This
information will be entered into a GIS-based database monitoring system. The system would be a project
managernent tool for monitoring the progress of works on any of the individual buildings, sectors as a whole
(e.g., all school buildings), or building types (e.g., all pre-fabricated school buildings), allowing versatlity in
supervision, quality audit and timely "trouble-shooting." GSDMA, using consultants, shall compile a manual
or guideline book to include the principal aspects of retrofit techniques recommended through typical retrofit
solutions. The consultants will develop retrofitting solutions for typical structnal types, keeping in mind
seismic and cyclone resistance, cost-effectiveness and speed of implementation of proposed solutions, and
assist the implementing deparrnents in the preparation of sample bidding documents.
57. Several levels of monitoring and quality audit will be implemented. This will include: (a) regular, day-o-
day implerentation monitoring performed by the engineering cadre of relevant line deparitents, after they
have undergone rigorous training in this respect; (b) expert implementation monitoring and quarterly
supervision of buildings under retrofit independently done by consultants who suggested the retrofitting
measures; (c) quality of building materials checked by and independent group; and (d) rigorous quality control
audit through an independent consultant team.
58. Public Buildings - New Construction With regard to new construction of control rooms, institutions
such as GSDMA, GIDM and ISR, the R&B Depariment will undertake the necessary construction works,
while the necessary architectural designs will be prepared through the Office of the Chief Town Planner and
the Architectural Advisor under the R&B Departrnent, which possesses sufficient expertise, experience and
capacity to undertake this work. Its capacity will be bolstered with consultant support, as requie   As in
odter components, independent audits will be instituted for quality control.
59. Dam Safety and IrTigation: The Water Resources Department (WRD) will implement the
strengthening and reconstruction works through its Chief Engineers and field construction circles, with four
Chief Engineers and seven Superintending Engineers handling the reconstruction/strengthening4rehabilitation
of 185 schemes in Kutch region and 37 schemes in Saurashtra region. The WRD has well organized
arrangements for design of darns and appurtenant structures - the Central Designs Oanization (CDO),
Gandhinagar. CDO is conversant of the prevailing critena and standards of designs. The Central Water
Commission (CWC), New Delhi is providing the necessary technical guidance for expeditious finalization of
the designs. For on-site design solution, WRD has set up design units in Bhuj for Kutch region and in Rajkot
for Saurashtra region. The designs will be reviewed and cleared for implementation by the two Dam Safety
Panels.
60. GOG will set up an efficient quality management organization to ensure that civil works and related
activities are canied out in confomity with supenor construction standards. Presently, there is an independent
quality control organization in the WRD, headed by a Chief Engineer directy under the Secretary (Water
Resources) and staffed with eight Executive Engineers, two Deputy Executive Engineers and 12 Assistant



27
Engineers. Since the strengthening and reconstruction works are wide-spread and sizeable in magnitude, the
present staffing will be augmented through re-deployment Accordingly, GOG will post a Superintending
Engineer (Quality Control) headquarteed at Bhuj, and also increase the strength of Deputy Executive
Engineers to 24 and Assistant Engineers to 48. This will strengthen the quality control set up, particularly for
the works in the Kutch region where a wide range of remedial works are to be camied out WRD will also hire
itemational consultants for quality assurance, technical audit, implementation management and reporting.
61. Roads and Bndges: Under the Bank financed Gujarat State Highway Project (GSHP), the R&B
Department has shown strong project preparation and implementation capabilities. Thus, to ensure the smooth
implementation of the emnergency road rehabilitation component, it was agreed that the Phase I program
would be implemnted using the same instituional and project implementation arrangements that are being
used to implement the GSHP. Within the R&B Department; the staff that is already in place to implement the
GSHP will be also responsible for managing the implementation of the energency road rehabilitation
component, since they are already fully trained and conversant in Bank procurement, disbursement, financial
management and monitoring procedures. As in GSHP, consultants have been hired for supervision and
project management. The works are progressing in a satisfactory manner demonstrating that the above
arrangements have worked very well.
62. Intemational consultants will be hired to investigate 700 krns of damaged state roads and suggest
measures needed for rehabilitation and stngtening the roads and bridges. Conractors will be appointed for
canying out the works which will be supervised by the departmental engineers under a quality assurance
regime to be supervised by independent consultants.
Community Participation Support
63. GSDMA is the implementing agency for this component The Information, Education and
Communications activities (preparation of print and audio-visual materials) will be contracted out to
specialized agencies. The sub-centers (Setus - Bridges) wilU be established through NGOs or the Distcict
Rural Development Agencies, and will be supported to fonr, train and nurture village self-help groups where
there are no other suitable community-based organizations. Village-level meetings, analysis, planning and
training wil involve village commuities and groups, assisted by the Setus and other NGOs. The gender
sensitization and disaster preparedness workshops will be caried out by competent NGOs contracted by
GSDMA. Procurement of the energency response equipment wil be the responsibility of GSDMA.
Strengthening of the gram sabhas wil involve the district administrations and line departments.
64. Community participation and capacity building activities would be implemented by a tri-partite
partnership between GOG, local NGOs and beneficiaries, including community organizations such as gram
panchayats, women's groups, user groups and others. A joint coordination group wil review standards and
set the broad strategy and guidelines for implementation. The social needs and impact assessments (already
contracted out to specialized agencies) wiU identify the strengths and weaknesses of these organizational
arrangements over time, permitting their strengthening where necessary. GSDMA's current capacity to
manage these activities wiUl be supplemented by experienced sociologists contracted to oversee the
implementation of the component
Disaster Management
65. GSDMA is the responsible agency for implementation of this component A Task Force is providing
guidance to GSDMA on the broader aspects of disaster management The recommrendations of the Task
Force will be taken-up for implementation in phases. GSDMA wilU hire consultants to conduct feasibility
studies and procure necessary equipment for sitrngteing control rooms, state-wide emergency
communication system, search and rescue, firefighting and information technology.
Project Management
66. GSDMA and the line departments who wil implement the Project, will use the resources available for
project management This will include the costs of operation and maintenance of additional offices,
equipment and vehicles; hiring of offices, equipment and vehicles; salaries and allowances of contractual staff,



28
consulting services for program management, quality assurance ,monitoring and evaluation, environmental
and social assessmrent and safeguard compliance, and financial, technical and procurement audits.
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
67. Goods, works and consulting services financed under the Project shall be procured in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants, and using the
Bank' s India-specific model standard bidding documents. Each contract for works estimated to be equivalent
of US$500,000 or more shall be subject to prior review by IDA. Each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$200,000 or more shall be subject to prior review by IDA. Each contract for ernployment of
consulting finns estimated to cost US$100,000 or more and US$50,000 or more in case of individual
consultants shall be subject to prior review by IDA. All other contracts will be subject to the post award
review. Particular emphasis is being given to Quality and Procurement Audits to be carried out on a
continuous basis, to verify that the activities financed under the component follow the eligibility criteria and
are implemented in an efficient manner (Attachrnent 4 on Procurement).
DISBURSEMENT
68. The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed against eligible expenditures in the following
percentages: 90 percent of civil works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and materials; 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factoxy cost) for equipnent and materials; 80 percent of local expenditures
for other items procured locally; 80 percent of all expenditures for consultants' services, 100 percent of all
expenditures for other consultants, training, workshops and study tours, and 70 percent of incremental costs
for running and operation in the first year, 50 percent in the second year and 30 percent in the third year.
Disbursemnents will be made against Statements of Expenditure for aUl contracts below the prior review limits
including those contacts for the employrnent of consultants costing less than US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals. Disbursements from IDA credit would initially be made in the traditional system
(reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and could be converted to the
Fmancial Monitoring Report (FMR) based disbursement at the option of GOG and GOI after the project
successfully demonstrates generation of quality FMRs.
69. The reallocation of funds under Phase I (para. 16 of MOP) has resulted in the need for provision of
retroactive financing of US$40.0 million under this Project Retroactive financing wil allow completion of
permanent housing reconstruction which was started under Phase I will cover eligible expenditures from
February 1, 2002.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
70. The Project has a financial management system that would be able to account adequately for project
resources and expenditures. An Operations Manual laying down in detail the financial policies and
procedures for the Project has already been prepared and is being used for Phase L The key financial staff are
also already in place at GSDMA and have had experience on Phase L Many of the line depatments assisting
GSDMA in the execution of the Project also have participated in implementation of Phase L Considering the
significance of the role of line deparftmts in the Project, Fmancial Management (FM) assessment was
camed out for GSDMA and the major line departments participating in the Project
71. GSDMA is cunenfly using an off-the-shelf software for its accounting and financial reporting needs.
Fmancial statements for the project are generated through this software and specific reports required are
prepared using the data from the system on spreadsheets. The input from the line departments to GSDMA is
in manual mode.
72. The Project will be budgeted in GOG budget as an identifiable single head budget item each year. The
funds will flow from GOI to GOG, and from GOG to GSDMA, with GOG assuming the responsibility for
transferring the fuids to GSDMA within five days of it receiving the funds. GSDMA will advance fuids to
the line departments based on their funds status and projected fmuds requirement.



29
73. The fund transfers from GOG to GSDMA were in line with the fund requirements. A Director Fmance
heads GSDMA's finance function. An experienced Controller of Accounts who provides leadership and
strategic direction on financial aspects of the projects assists him The line departments in the Phase I have
appointed nodal financial officers who undertake the accounting for the respective depatments for the project
GSDMA will advance funds to the line departments only after it has received a confinnation from the line
department that (a) a separate bank account has been opened in the name of GSDMA to be used specifically
for the project, and (b) the nodal finance person who would interact on behalf of the line department has been
appointed.
74. Audit: The audit of project expenditure incuned by GSDMA and the participating line departments will
be conducted by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, under terms of reference (TOR) also satisfactory to
IDA and will be furished within six months after the end of each year. Notwithstanding the audits, certificate
of expenditures from an independent auditor acceptable to IDA shall be furnished by GSDMA. The
certificate for the half year ending September will be furished before the end of Novemnber and for the year
ending March will be fumnished no later than June 30. The audit report (including on expenditure incurred by
the line departments) for the initial six months ended September 30, 2001 for the Phase I was carried out by
Accountant General (Audit), Gujarat and the report was submitted in time. However, the audit report is
qualified and has some important observations - mainly on the housing sector. GSDMA has submitted a
detailed action plan on major audit observations and it is in the process of corecting the shortcomings.
Analysis of Audit Issues
75. In the initial six monthly audit report for the immediate phase for the period ended September 30, 2001,
the statutory auditors (Auditor General (Audit) - Gujarat) made audit observations related mainly to the
housing sector. The observations include a few instances of irregular release of cash assistance, fund flow
delays, payment for work not actually executed, inadequate record keeping, excess/duplicate payments to the
beneficiaries and incomplete bank account reconciliations. The intemal auditors have also indicated some
areas of concem, again mainly in the housing sector on issues of excess/duplicate payments being made to the
beneficiaries, inadequate documentation, irregular payments and incomplete bank account reconciliations
76. An analysis of the audit observations indicated that: (a) in companson to the total number of transactions
(the intemal auditors are doing a 100 percent check in Phase 1), the number of observations was not
significant Out of a total coverage of Rs. 2,285.8 million, the queries were raised (including many of them on
procedural lapses), on an amount of Rs. 38.4 million (1.68 percent); (b) the number (1.44 percent) of
observations on the Bank financed housing categories are lower than the number (2.62 percent) of
observations for non-Bank financed activities; (c) there were no discemable geographic trend to indicate
problem districts; and (d) there was significant improvement in understanding and administration of the
second installment of financial assistance on housing The action plan and the impact analysis report indicate
the action plan drawn should satisfactorily address the statutory and intenal auditors' observations (also refer
Attachment 5 on Financial Management). The action plan, besides addressing the audit observations point by
point, also includes measures to strengthen the control environment The proposed measures include:
deputing a separate internal audit team to verify the timely resolution of audit observations, appointment of
one officer at GSDMA to exclusively monitor audit reports resolution, completion of bank account
reconciliation statements, streamlining the process of preparation of withdrawal claims, etc.
77. Most of the measures mentioned above have already been initiated. A special intemal audit team has
completed a compliance review in Taluka Development Office CIDO) Bhuj and Mamlatdar Dhangadhia, and
has reported marked inmpovement in compliance with audit recommendations. About 70 percent of bank
account reconciliations have been completed and work to complete the remaining is in progress. A
disbursement/audit workshop was held at GOG's initiative which helped in steamlhng the process of
preparation of withdrawal claims. Also modifications are being made to the Operations Manual on issues
such as approval of the schemes, procedure for award of works and services, to strengthen the internal control
environment
78. The resolution of major observations of intemal and extemal auditors will be completed by
August31, 2002.



30
6. ACTION PLAN
ACTIONS AGREED WITH THE GOVERNMENT
79. The following key actions have been agreed and finalized with GOG during Negotiations.
(a)    GOG will prepare a Disaster Management Policy focusing on capacity building, educaion and
communication to reduce the impact of disasters and to ensure better preparedness. The Policy will be
adopted by GOG by September 30, 2002.
(b)    With the objective of establishing a sustainable long-term disaster managerment system, GOG will
inrduce legislation in the form of the DisasterManagement Bill by December31, 2002.
(c)    GOG will address the mnajor action plan items emerged from the audit observations made in the half
yearly audit (for period ending September 30, 2001) report of the on-going Phase I program by August 31,
2002.
(d)    The Project funds will flow from GOI to GOG and from GOG to GSDMA, with GOG assuming
the responsibility for fund transfer to GSDMA within five working days of receipt of funds.
(e)    GOG will carry out social and environnental analysis through project completion to assess both
positive and negative (adverse) social and environmental impacts of the reconstruction program on different
stakeholders, especially the vulnerable groups. Quartery reports wil be fiunished to the BankL
(f)    Actions on non-structwal aspects of dam safety, for example, training of project staff associated with
flood forecasting and flood monitoring, training of village/taluka level government functionaries and village
representatives on disaster preparedness operations, preparing and implementing reservoir operation and
maintenance, will be camed out by GOG prior to re-commissioning of the earthake-affected dams.
(g)    Pending revision of the Building Codes by the Bureau of Indian Standards, GOG will enforce the
present Building Codes in the urban local bodies of the eardquake affected area effective September 30,
2002, and enforce the revised Building Codes as soon as it is made available by the Bureau of Indian
Standards. App  iate guidelines for construction of safe buildings will be evolved by GOG for the rural
areas and dissemination of it throughout the State will be taken-up effective September 30, 2002. GOG will
address the major action plan items emerged from the audit observations before August 31, 2002.
LMPLEMENTATION ACTION PLAN AND MONITORING INDICATORS
80. A detailed Implementation Action Plan (LAP) has been drawn up for the proposed Project The IAP
outlines the detailed implementation schedule for components and subcomponents. A summary chart is
given under Attachment 6 on Irmplementation Activities and Monitorng Indicators. Detailed monitoring
indicators have been drawn up to review overall project outcomes, as well as review progress on individual
components.



31
Table 3. Monitoring Indicators for Project Components
Conwnent Objdives| Pi                           Ageny          Pefo  Inweln&*ors            T Moniwo    g& Ewzaion
Hou.fn                                    _  _   _   _  _   _    _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _
Ower-diven reomstucdon/frdabihtation    GSDMA                  (a) 135,000 houses r ecn ted   GSDMA xmthly, quartedy
of destroyed/damged housing..                                  and 75,000 houses rehabilitated.  progress reports. Third party
audits, Bank reorts.
Capacity building for mnulti-azard resistant                   (b) 1000 engineers and 5,000
constucion                                                     masons tned m hazad resistant
consftucfion
Public efrsrucureRecod     ucion
Dam safet & Inig   on
Reabilitation of dans to hazard resistant  WR D ent            (a) 37 dams in Sanurshta and   WR Depanment monlhly,
staxlards.                                                      185 das in Kutch strengtdened  quartely prgress reports. Ihird
to hazrd resistant standards.  party audits, Bank reports.
Pubicbidings
Repair, rehabilitation, reconstruction of  R&B Dep an          (a) At least 1200 public buildings  Monhly, quarterly prgress
public buildings to ensue smooth pbhc   GSPHC, R&B               p     b   ia      to hazard  reports of line departmnnts.
administrationL                         Pandrayat DepartmentS  resistant standards.           GSDMA progress reports, Third
UD Deparlment, AMC                                     party audits, Bank reports.
Retrofiting of critical udanagedpublic                         (b) At least 500 public uildings  R&B Deparmtmrtmonrily,
buildings in zones IV & V to protect against                   retrofitted to hazard resistant  quartery progress reports,
future disasters.                                              standards.                     GSDMA progess reports, Third
party audits, Bank rpor
Setting up of new bildings to s greng                          (c) New office buildings       GSDMA progress reports, Third
disaser management capacities.                                 constructed for GIDM, GSDMA    party audits, Bank repor
and ISRP
Roads and Bridges
Imprvement of ea1quake-affected state   R&B Depment            (a) Around 700 km of roads and  R&B Department monthly,
road network, along with associated                             associated stnir              quartery prgress eports, ird
s    ues for ensuing cnnectivity.      _l                                i   l     _          party audits, Bank report
CommuityPartlipation
Reduction of vulnerability of communities  GSDMA                (a) At least 500 self-help groups  GSDMA monty, quarteriy
against future em crgenies and capacity                        consituted in villages.        progress reports. Third party
building of communities for disasLter                           (b) At least 1000 gram sabhas  audits, Bank repor
management thrugh staholder                                    conducted.
partidpation
Diste      M     _aemn Capadty Buikfin
Enhanced disaster management traugh     GSDMA                   (a) Gujarat Disaster Managemrnt  GOG State Gazette, GSDMA
setting up of regulatory and intitutional                      Act legislated                  mmthly, quartely progress
famework                                                       (b) Gujarat Intitute of Disaster  reports, Bank repor
Management and hIstitution for
Seismic Research setup.
Enhanced disaster management through    GSDMA                   (a) State-level disaster
improved capacities.                                           managem  ent plans prepared
(b) State-wide emmgency
communications network
establialied and made fincfional.
(c) State-wide contl rooms set
up andi made functionaL



32
Attachment 1
Social Development
Recovery Shutg and ProjectAciities
1. Immediate and rnediumerm recovery and reconstruction, particularly that related to housing, education,
health, civic services and livelihoods, required attention to a number of social issues and needs. These
included infomation dissemination and communication, community consultation, participation and
organization, and local capacity building.
2. CommwUn    Parjicxation. In the Phase L GOG implemnented a number of activities that elicited the
involvement of affected people, including the damage assessment surveys, release of housing assistance,
information dissemination, trainng, and establishment of a grievance redressal mechanism  Under the
proposed Project, community awareness, participation and organiation will be strengthened to ensure
optimal recovery of the affected communities and institute long-term disaster preparedness. Some of the
activities that are proposed are: preparation of village-level disaster management plans, formation of village
level self-help groups, 'setus' or support sub-centers, gender sensitization of officials and communities to
ensure attention to women, vitalization of the gram sabhas to improve information dissemination and
interactions between workers and communities, enhance community decision-making and equity, and
institute social audit of the recovery program. Community activities will involve NGOs extensively,
particularly in the spread of information and establishment of support structures. The on-going social
assessments will assess the extent of participation among the affected communities, particularly the most
vulnerable, and provide feedback to GSDMA to strengthen their participation.
3. Given the size of the atea and the large numbers affected, people have been well reached by the surveys
and financial assistance, and some services such as education. Efforts to reach affected people with other
information (e.g, on seismic-resisLant construction) and services such as health care will be continued. In
parallel with this, the tasks of reconsinuction and long-term disaster preparedness require the strengthening of
community organizations. GSDMA, District Administraons, and project partners such as NGOs would
augment information flows to the affected rutal and urban communities, emphasize and accelerate
community organization and the establishment of support mechanisms, and improve both the quantity and
quality of capacity building activities.
4. Partnershivs Numerous NGOs are working in various ways as partners to GOG to implement the
program As the reconstruction program progresses, additional private organizations (with the requisite skldls)
will be involved in developing community participation and organizations, assisting weaker sections to obtain
program benefits and other services required to rebuild their homes and lives (especially in remote villages or
those with strongly dominant groups), and more specialized ones will assist in dealing with specific problems.
5. Trrnsparen-v and Grievance Redressal The institution of simple tranwarency mnechanisms will
considerably enhance people's satisfaction. For example, damage assessment lists for each village (and urban
ward) will be displayed in public places, along with infonration on the installments paid. A grievance
redessal mechanism is in place, and is expected to resolve cases of exclusion and inadequate compensation.
SociaiAssessment
6. The proposed Project would utilize the findings of the continuous Social Needs and Impact Assessment
that was put in place during Phase L The assessment is identifying the social needs of the affected people,
especially of vulnerable groups such as women, children, scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, minorities, the
disabled, destitute and aged. It will also idenify the positive and negative social impacts of the recovery
program on all stakeholders, including the effects of the institutions involved (govenmient, NGOs, panchayati
raj, corporate bodies, etc.). Attention will be paid to needs and impacts related to disaster preparedness and
management in the future. The social assessment includes attention to identifying land acquisition and
resettlement-rehabilitation issues. The information from the participatory impact monitoring will be provided
regularly by the agencies contracted to cany them out to GSDMA and other relevant authorities for follow-up
action to mitigate any possible negative effects and enhance positive effects of the program



33
7. The main output of the assessments would be adequate, representative, quantitative and qualitative data
which would enable management of the social dimensions of the recovery program over the life of the
Project The SAs would continue throughout the project period and thus provide an independent mechanism
for monitonng social impacts. Other community-based mechanisms, such as grievance redressal committees
and public posting of beneficiary lists, would also help to ensure inclusion and equity in the distribution of
project benefits.
Social Safeguards
8. Two social safeguard policies apply to the Project O.D. 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement and O.D. 4.20
on Indigenous People.
9. Involutary Resettlement GOG has provided the Bank with information on the ownership and status of
large sites used for temporary shelter in Phase L partal relocation of villages and debris disposal, and
confirmed that no displacement or land acquisition occurred in establishing these sites. Relocation (i.e.,
pnmary displacement due to the earthquake) has been minimal on account of GOG's policy and efforts, and
public preference to reconstruct housing and public infistructure in situ wherever possible. In the case of a
few communities requiring relocation, GOG's policy is to reconstruct on government-owned or donated
private lands. No land acquisition is currently envisaged in the Project and, hence, secondary displacement is
considered unlikely. However, on account of the extent of the affected area, the difficulty of rubble removal
in certain locations, and community-driven decision-making, the Project has prepared for the possibility of
land acquisition during its course. In Phase L GOG agreed to consult the Bank on relocations involving more
than 25 families, and to implement the principles of full compensation and livelihood restoration for any
secondarily displaced persons. GSDMA has reviewed relocations case by case and provided the Bank with
appropriate infonnation establishing that no instances of secondary displacement have occunred to date.
GSDMA will continue to review any additional cases that may arise, document their details, and ascertain that
the agreed procedures on R&R (below) are being followed. A Land Acquisition Assessment Data Sheet has
been prepared and agreed with IDA-
10. If private land were needed for rlocatiorleconstruction, GOG would assist the relevant community to
purchase the land on the principle of willing seller-willing buyer rather than resortng to land acquisition
under law. If such land acquisition is necessary and/or the possibility of secondary displacement were to anse,
the Government would inforn the Bank and prepare an appropriate Resettlement Action Plan. Decisions
about land acquisition would be taken only after full consultation with all affected people, and full disclosure
of infornation and entitlements. The owners and occupants of the acquired land would be eligible for support
based on the Bank's Policy on Involuntary Resettlement The key principles for such support are that
acquired land and other private assets must be compensated at replacement cost, and support must be given to
regain livelihoods if earning capacity is reduced as a result of the land acquisition. In such cases, GOG would
contract an agency experienced in planning and implementing Resettlement Action Plans to ensure proper
consultation, compensation, and relocation assistance to the displaced persons.
11. Indigenous People. To meet the requirements of O.D. 4.20, the Project has collected infonnation on the
presence of Indigenous People ('Scheduled Tribes') in the affected areas. GOG's policy of paying housing
assistance on the basis of actual danage assessments provides for equitable treatment of vulnerable groups,
including Scheduled Tribes. Further, a gnievance redressal process is accessible to those who wish a re-
assessrnent of damage to their property. No instances of discrimination against scheduled tribes have been
brought to light by this process, the media, research studies, or the on-going social needs and impact
assessmnents. During this Project, GOG would put the following decision process in place for the preparation
of Indigenous Peoples' Developmnent Plans (IPDPs): (a) The continuing social assessments would identify
and documnent the prsence of tribal people amonrg the earthquake affected, and whether and how they are
able to assert their interests and rights within the ProjecL (b) It would also monitor the access of these tribal
people to project benefits and impacts. In the event that the Project has significant (expected or actual)
positive or negative impacts on the distinctive cultual or economic way of life of the tribal people, and/or if
they were not able to assert their rights, an IPDP would be prepared. (c) The IPDP would be based on the
infonned participation of the tribal people and would present strategies to address their concems. If adverse
impacts were anticipated, the IPDP would determine measures to avoid or ritigate harm



34
Implemn  tadon and IsitauonalArrngements
12. GSDMA has contracted the Social Assessments to independent agencies, and would be responsible for
contracting suitable agencies to carry out the RAPs and IPDPs. The Community Participation activities
would be managed by GSDMA and implemented through local govenunent agencies, by NGOs on contract
or community-based oganizations.



35
Aftachment 2
Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan
1. Environmntal Impads of the Eathquake. The eaiquake that hit Gujarat had a nunber of environmental
impacts, both direct and indiect These impacts have been assessed in order to identify measures that could be
considered during the reconstruction effort and as part of a broader disaster management framework and strategy.
The Gujarat Earthquake Recovery Program Assessment Report (March 14, 2001) included a summary of a Rapid
Environmental Impact Assessment (REIA) which outlined the main environmental issues as they were understood
shottly after the earthquake. The REIA was followed by a more comprehensive Rapid Environmental Appraisal
(Gujarat Institute of Desert Ecology - March 2001) which further outlined the issues and options with regards to
the reconstruction effot in the context of the delicate ecology of the affected ama The direct impacts identified
included the generation of large amounts of debris and rubble requiring proper disposal and damage to water
management infrastructure, among others. These assessments also recognized that additional impacts would need
to be mitigated as a result of the reconstruction efforts. These environmental studies are therefore important
background documents to the environmental assessment (EA) exercise that was developed and is being
implemented as part of the project preparation work.
2. Environental Management Framework. The envirnmental management frarework covering the
reconstruction effort continues to evolve as the issues facing the reconstruction program become clearer and the
scope of the environmental challenge is better understood. Much of the initial reconstruction work was done
under extreme emergency measures and some mitigation measures are likely to be required to minimize the long
term impacts of what was done in the early days following the earthquake. In addition to the need to mitigate the
environmental impacts of the reconstruction program, it has also become apparent that the environmental
management framework needs to be expanded and up-streamed to address issues in the reconstruction strategy,
such as town planning and temporary camp management. This has lead to the development of a more
comprehensive approach to the EA prcess, as illustrated in Figure A2.1. The EA process seeks to identify
opportunities for upstream enhancements of project components and mitigation of potential impacts, while
recognizing the constraints imposed by an emergency operation. The recent completion of the Gujarat State
Envirmntal Action Plan camied out by the Gujarat Ecology Commission (GEC) provides a comprehensive set
of background reports and studies to support the EA.
3. The environmental management framework includes a number of background studies. Environfmntal
mitigation measures are being included in the project design as and where applicable and the project is expected to
have a net positive effect on the environment. In fact, the environmental assessment (EA) process is being canied
out in a way that emphasizes the timely preparation of an Environnmtal Management Plan (EMP). One of the
first outputs of the EA process is an Environmental and Social Analysis report, including an EMP and an EMP
implementation plan, to be implernented by GSDMA and which the Bank will supervise. Given the ongoing
nature of the reconstuction effort, the EMP will be updated on a regular basis as additional recommendations
emerge from the EA work.
4. Envuromnentdand SocialAnalysis. As mentioned above, an Environmental and Social Analysis (ESA) was
undertaken to assess the environmental and social issues associated with the project, how these will be addressed
in the context of the Bank's environmental and social guidelines, and the necessary mitigation measures required
to minimize the impacts of project implementation. A number of the environmental issues were found to be related
to debris, rubble and materials management, and a number of provisions have been identified to mitigate the
impacts of the reconstruction work. The ESA also considered measures to deal with the rehabilitation of temporary
shelter sites and impacts associated with road and bridge repairs, among others.



36
Figure A2.1- Enviromental Mnagement Frmeweork
1                                        .  , ,  , ,  _ .,  ..  _.  __  .....  . _.- -. - ........... "----- -- ---- ------ --- -- - ---------- - - - -..............-.. .............. . .........  ..  .   ...  ..... .. ......... .....-....................
*                            Stakeholder Consultation and Participation Fr.a mex:-Ja
.................. ... ...,.._............... .......... .... .......  .... ........ .  ......   ...... ....... . _ _   .   .... .. ...   .
I                                  ..     " ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(r.J_ _   .,-  . 
Prt   I           ~~~~En-siruomenetal %s9,Nwc-if3             4': 1 
Copoen s l;-          - ; 1 [{
A                     Unaa .-. ,XI
. PidnsneSa*m       e;forvnnma lc                 nPumRcn<nt u.,              ,                  ,1| 
MilimcerwritiiEnvi,and            ta   ucisrin fkxju~ing iRecons-mLi- 'ur CI
Nlitieadon  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L fr.*Li h:Rnim1. 
l1'.  .        '   X,,e \ \i't I .  Soutces,  Uses &w  i l r,?.   2  .
. :-                                                           __           [; x 
0 ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... __B .  w  _._._......  ...................   ...... ........... ...... ..... . ... __... ........ s _.. t. ... . ._ ..  ..... ....... _... 
5. Environmental Managemenw Plan. The Envionmental Management Plan which is to be implemented
by GSDMA includes: i) use of stanLard mitigation measures as part of design and contracts; ii) use of
standard codes of practice as part of contract packages; iii) use of negative lists (things a spcific conmonent
would not finance), and; iv) use of screening criteria to detrmine whether additional environmental work
needs to be done on a sub-project by sub-pject basis, among others. Work relating to the repair and
reconstruction of roads and brdges will be undertaken in accordance with the ftamework agreed to under the
Gujarat State Highways Project. Large rubble disposal sites will be properly closed in accordance with site
closure and management guidelines which have been developed specifically for this project From a more
narrow perspective of the Bank's safeguard policies, comprehensive actions and mitigation neasures have
been considered and adopted for dealing with issues relating to the management of cultural propeies and the
safety of water management structures. Fmally, the Bank will supervise implementation of the Environrmntal
Management Plan.



37
Attachlment 3
Communication and Transparency Strategy
1. Background and Recovery Strategy. The core principles of the Recovery Strategy of the Gujarat
Earthquake Recovery Program include: empowering individuals and communities, decentrlization and
community-driven reconstruction, and communication and trasparency (Joint Assessment Report, March 14,
2001, pp. 30-31.) These principles arose out of, armong other things, the recognition that the reconstruction
efforts would not be sustainable if the affected individuals and communities did not have a sense of ownership
over the process, and if their preferences and feedback were not factored into policy-making; and that they
would not be credible if the procedures were not transparent, and if effective vigilance and grievance redressal
systems were absent
2. At the same time, the Govemment faced the huge challenge of assessing and collating individual and
community damage and requirements, determning and channeling the appropriate compensation to each
affected individual, communicating details of policies, awards and entitlements to all affected parties, sharing
knowledge and building technical capacity in all affected areas, facilitating and coordinating civil society
interventions, ensuring inclusion of and justice to marginalized sections, and preventing leakages during
implementation of the Reconstruction Program These complex requirements would necessitate a continuous,
multi-dimensional exchange of information and technical know-how among the Government, affected
populations, civil society partners, and secondary stakeholders, as well as a credible and transparent
monitoring and vigilance mechanism Thus, GSDMA has decided to put in place a Communication Strategy
to enable it to deal with these multiple demands.
3. Key Deliverables of the Communcation Strategy. The Communication Strategy will help support the
following aspects of the Reconstruction Program:
X Disseminating information about Government policies, orders, resolutions, etc, as well as individual
entitlements
*  Community consultation and participation
r Building technical capacity within communities
*   Coordination among the Government and its civil society partners
*  Transparency, vigilance, and grievance redressal mechanisms
* Addressing secondary and external stakeholders
4. For each of these aspects, and in order to ensure sustained, evenly spread, and consistent message
delivery, the Strategy will identify different target groups, suggest the methods and mediumn of
communication appropriate for each, the timing, intensity and scale of the activity, the anticipated outcome,
and the mode and periodicity of evaluating its impact It will also identify, and include provisions for
mobilizing and training, elements in civil society who can be effective and credible messengers to different
target grups.
5. In particular, the Strategy will specify the transparency and vigilance mechanisms, which will have a
strong element of informed public participation.
6. Communication Structure. A key element of the Communication Strategy will be the setting up of a
structured and sustainable system to implement, coordinate, oversee, and monitor all aspects and dimensions
of this multi-prong communication taslc The communication system will broadly comprise GSDMA at the
apex, followed by district and block administrations, cluster subcenters, district-block-village committees, and
village assemblies. These are explained below:
*   Since communication on such a large scale and on so many fronts will, of necessity, be a dynamic
process often affected by changing circumstances, devising and implementing the communication
stategy will not be a one-off activity, but a continuous process for GSDMA throughout the life of the
Reconstruction Program Tactics and messages will need continual coordination, mnodifyng and scaling,



38
their delivery will have to be timed and synchronized with the pace of implenmntation activity in various
sectors, and different audiences will reuire special attention at certain times. Devising the
Communication Strategy, and supervising and coordinating its implementation will therefore be the
explicit responsibility of GSDMA.
The actual work of comnunication on this huge scale of space, time, and intensity will, however, ride on
the shoulders of those direcdy interfacing with the public, such as talatis (village revenue officials),
village-level engineers supervising reconstruction work, and others in the administrative chain in the
districts, besides NGO workers and other civil society partners. Special programs to train and enhance
the communication capacity of those working directly in the field will formn a critical part of the
Communication Strategy.
* Communities have to sore extent already been mobilized, with Gram Sabbas (village assemblies,
whose membership comprises all eligible voters of the village) taking decisions on whether their village
should relocate or rebuild in siu. Village, block and distnct level reconstruction committees have been
constituted in all the affected areas. The Governnent, with the help of civil society partners, will clarify
the role, mandate, composition, and relationship of each rung, as required.
* In order to bridge the distance between the policy-making levels and those at the grassroots, GSDMA
has initiated the creation of Setu ('bridge") subcenters, each of which will look after a cluster of 15 to 18
villages. These subcenters, which will be set up and run with the help of civil society partners, are
intended to serve the multiple function of infonmation exchanges, training centers, comnunity
mobilizers, and public accountabilty monitors. To serve these purposes, the Setus are being mandated to
act as a two-way link in the information chain between village committees and the block/district
administration, identify and train communication workers, form self-help groups in villages to monitor
the reconstruction programn, and identify and train a leader in each such group who will become the
infonration contact point for his/her village. The Setus will also have other roles such as promoting
income-generation schemes and educating communities in disaster preparedness. The Setu program
will be implemented over a period of one year to begin with.
* For redressing gnievances, the senior-most judicial authority in every affected district has been made the
ombudsman for the reconstuction program His office receives, sorts, vets, and forvards conmlaints to
the concemed department Based on an assessment of its functioning, this system will be strengthened, if
necessary, and modified, if required.
7. The Communication Strategy will outline the relationship, information flows, responsibilities and
mandates of each of these nmgs, and also suggest alternative mechanisms in those areas not covered by Setus.



39
Aftachment 4
Procurement Arrangements
A.     INSrITrUoNAL CAPACrrY
1. The procurement under the proposed Project is a continuation of Phase I operations being executed
mostly by the same departments who have experience of Phase I operations. Further, the Engineers and other
staff in the Water Resources, Roads & Buildings, and other departments have implernented in the past Bank
financed projects such as Gujarat Rural Roads [Cr. 1757-INl, Gujarat Urban Development [Cr. 1643-IN, and
Gujarat Water Supply [Cr. 1280-IN. Currendy, Gujarat is participating in several multi-state projects such as
Reproductive Child Health [N-018-IM, Disttict Primary Education Project II [Cr. 2836-IN, Hydrology
Project [Cr. 2374-IN], Rural Women's Development & Empowerment Project [Cr. 2942-INI, Eco-
development Project[Cr. 291IN], etc. Gujarat is also implementing the Gujarat State Highways Project [hL
4577-IN]. Therefore, staff of the Gujarat government is generally conversant with the systems and
procedures to be followed for procuremnent in Bank financed projects and Gujarat has the necessary
institutional capacity to conduct project procurement following World Bank Guidelines. However, in order to
update the knowledge of the staff Gujarat needs to depute its key officers particularly from few departments
who may be canying out procurement under Bank fimded project for the first time to training institutes
offering procurement courses namely, the National Institute of Fmancial Management, Fanidabad, or the
Administrative Staff College of India, Hyderabad. Bank has conducted procurement workshops in
Ahnedabad during April 2001 and August 2001 which were attended by engimeers from majority of the
departments. Subsequently, Bank had several interactions with departments like Police Housing Corporation,
niuicipal corporation (which had limited experience on Bank-funded projects) and as a result limited
expertise was developed. However, these agencies will use the services of experienced consultants for
preparation of bidding documents and evaluation of bids.
The threshold at Para D has been set considering the above.
B.     PROCUREMENT MEHODS
2. The World Bank Borrowers shall procure aU goods, works and consulting services to be financed under
the Project in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, and Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants. All civil works, goods and services wiU be procured using India specific Bank's
model Standard Bidding Documents.
BI     Civd Woris [US$224.9 millon]
NCB [US$224.6 million]
3. Civil works generally comprise:
* Repair and strengthening, rehabilitation, reconstruction and upgrading (where necessary), of
damaged public buildings, roads and bridges, and dam and imigation infrastrcture in the earthquake
affected areas; and
* Retrofitting of undamaged public buildings of critical importance (such as schools, hospitals,
government administration buildings, fire and police stations).
* Construction of control rooms, Disaster Management Institute and Institute for Seismic Researtch.
4. Generaly civil works will be procured following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures in
convenient packages. The works are disbursed over the entire earthquake affected area and value of
individual packages will be small and therefore are unlikely to attract the interest of foreign contractors; but if
foreign firms wish to participate, they should be allowed.



40
Quoon, Direcd Coacting and Force Account [US$0.30 milion]
5. Small Repair and Reconstruction Works relating to retrofitting of schools with 50%o fumding by reputed
NGOs will be procured in Packages of US$50,000 equivalent or less using procedures acceptable to the
association in accordance with pragraph 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines
B2.    Housing Reconstucon Woris (US$197.2 mdilon)
The owner will carry out Reconstution of the houses in rual and urban areas themselves as per procedures
agreed for Phase I construction.
B3.    Goods [US$5250 million]
ICB[US$3120millon]
6. Goods and equipIment including computers, office equipment, fire fighting equipment, relief and rescue
vans, etc. will be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in respect of
packages above US$200,000 equivalent Under ICB preference will be given to domestically manufactured
goods in accordance with Appendix-2 of the Bank's Procurnnt Guidelines.
NCB [US$14.9 millon]
7. Other equipmnnts of small value will be pmcured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures in packages valuing individually equivalent US$200,000 and below in accordance with Para 3.3
and 3.4 of Bank's Procurerent Guidelines.
National/ntenmaional Shopping [US$6.4 million]
8. Small value off-the-shelf items including funiture etc., individually costing US$50,000 or less equivalent
per contract, would be procured following NationaVlIntemational Shopping procedures in accordance with
Para 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines.
B4.     Consultancy Senices (US$20.1 mioon)
9. The key consulting services will be procured as follows:
Si.                 Description of Sevices               Estimated Cost       Method of
No.                                                       [US$ mlliTonl       Selecton
1.    Public Infrastructure: Public Buildings: Technical     0.50          QCBS
Education: Consultancy services for planning, design,
quality assurance for engineering college and
polytechnic institute at Bhuj
2.     Public hifrastucture: Public Buildings: State Buildings:  1.80      QCBS
Quality audit of major repair, retrofitting, reconstuction
of govemnent deparment public building component
3.     Public nfraslructure: Public Buildings: Home
Department Buildings: Design, estimate, bidding
document prepation
[i]    Residenial Non-residential building            0.07          LC
[ii]   Quality Audit for building                     0.08          QCBS
4.     Public Ifrasructr: Public Buildings: Disaster         0.50          QCBS
M   anagm t Consultancy services for Disaster
Management Institute and Institute for Seismic
Research - planning, design and quality assurance
5.     Public Infiasructue: Public Buildings: Disaster       0.15          QCBS



41
Management GSDMA office complex - design and
supervision
6.     Public Infrasinicture: Public Buildings: Disaster     0.35         QCBS
Management Design and supervision of regional
emergency response center
7.     Public Infistuctue: Public Buildings: Disaster       0.25         QCBS
Management Design and supervision of Seismological
lnstittte
8.     Public Infrastructure: hTigation: Quality Monitoring and  1.25     QCBS
Implementation Support
9.     Public Infirastucture: Roads and Bridges: Design
Consultants for roads and bridges for preparation of
detailed project
[i]    Consultant - I                                 0.85         QCBS
Mii]   Consultant_-I                                  0.65          QCBS
10.   Public Infrastructure: Roads and Bridges Consultants   1.00         QCBS
for Quality Audit - Roads and Bridges
11.   Conmmnity Participation: Training and infornation      1.60         Finn   US$0.85
dissemination (several small consultancies)                         million    and
Individual
US$0.50 million
12.   Community Participation: Preparation plan of state,    1.20         QCBS
district and comrmity resoumces
13.   Community Participation: Consultancy services for
commnity participation - GSDMA Group
[i]   Consultancy Services for IEC activities          1.0          QCBS/CQ
[ii]  Gender sensitization Workshops                  0.20          QCBS/CQ
[iii]  Disaster prpaedness Group Fonmlation           0.42          QCBS/CQ
[iv]  Training of communities and periodic drills     0.18          QCBS/CQ
[v]   Vulnerability and risk identification and analysis  0.35      QCBS
[vi]  Preparation of community level disaster plan    0.15          QCBS/CQ
14.   Disaster Management GIS Based IT - Analysis,           0.75         QCBS
prediction etc.
15.   Disaster Management Communication network for          0.75         QCBS
early warning system                                          _
16.   Disaster Management Vulnerability Atlas                1.00         QCBS
17.   Disaster Management Feasibility studies for disaster   2.40         QCBS
management component
18.   Other Miscellaneous Studies                            2.65         QCBS/SS
TOTAL                                                20.10



42
C.     PROCUREWNT PLANNING
10. Govemment of Gujarat (GOG) has prepared a procurement plan for all the identified packages under the
project for each section separately as part of the Project Inplementation Plan. Procurement of all packages
would be undertaken in accordance with this procurement plan and the procurement plan will be updated and
monitored quarterly.
D.     REVIEW OF PROCUREMT BY THE BANK [TABLE B]
11. Prior Review
* All ICB contracts
* All NCB contracts of value US$500,000 and above for civil works, and first three NCB goods and works
contracts irespective of value.
* Consultants' contract with an estimated value of US$100,000 equivalent and above for firms and
US$50,000 equivalent and above for individuals.
E.      NCB PROVISIONS
12. All NCB contracts shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank and revised in
January 1999 [the Guidelines]. In this regard, all NCB contracts to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit
shall follow the following procedures:
i)      Only the nodel bidding documents for NCB agreed with GOI Task Force [and as amended for tirm
to time], shall be used for bidding,
ii)    Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, at
least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;
iii)   No special preference will be accorded to any bidder either for price or for other terms and conditions
when competing with foreign bidders, state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enteprises
from any given State;
iv)    Except with the prior concurrence of IDA, there shall be no negotiation of price with the bidders,
even with the lowest evaluated bidder,
v)     Except in cases of force rnajeure and/or situations beyond the control of the state, extension of bid
validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of IDA (i) for the first request for
extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (ii) for all subsequent requests for extension
inrespective of the period.;
vi) Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank. The system of
rejecting bids outside a pre-deterined margmn or "bracket" of prices shall not be used;
vu)    Rate contracts entered into by Directorate General of Supplies & Disposals, will not be acceptable as
a substitute for NCB procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable however for any procurement
under National Shopping procedures;
viii) Two or three envelope system wi1l not be used.
F.     PROCUREMT INFORMATION
13. Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) Prompt reporting of contract award information by GSDMA acting as the Project Management Unit
(PMU) for the respective components.
(b) Comprebensive quarterly reports by PMUs indicating:



43
(i)     revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost;
(ii)   revised timings of prcurenient actions including advertsing, bidding, contract award and
completion tine for individual contracts; and
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
SLNo0    Expe      Categoy                                       Pro>anet Method                 Total Cost
ICB        NCB      Othersi     NBF
A.       EHOUSING
1.      Works                                                                 197.2                   1972
(177.5)                 (177.5)
SUB-TOTAL OF COMPONENT A                                              197.2                  197.2
(177.5)                (177.5)
B.       PUBLIC BUIlNGS
Bi: EDUCATION
1.      Worts                                                       IZ2         03                     125
(11.0)     (0.3)                   (113)
2.       Goods                                                       1.2        13                      2.5
(1.0)      (10)                   (2.0)
3.       Consutancy                                                             0.2                     0.2
(0.1)                  (0.1)
SUB-TOTAL                                                   13.4       1.8                    15.2
(12.0)     (1.4)                   (13.4)
B2: PUBLIC BUILDINGS                                                                 _
1.      Works                                                       61.8                               61.8
________________________(55.6)                                                               (55.6)
2.       Goods                                                       1.5        12                      2.7
(12)       (1.0)                  (22)
3.       Consultancy                                                            2.5                     2.5
(2.0)                  (2.0)
SUB-TOTAL                                                   63.3       3.7                    67.0
(56.8)     (3.0)                  (59.8)
B3: RETROFIlTING
1.      Works                                                       25.3                               25.3
(22.8)                            (22.8)
2.       Consultancy                                                            04                      0.4
(03)                    (03)
SUB-TOTAL                                                   25.3       0.4                    25.7
(22.8)     (0.3)                  (23.1)
B4: DAM SAFEY & IRR1GATION
1.  Works                                                   76.7                              76.7
(69.1)                            (69.1)
2.       Consultcy and Traing                                                   12                      12
________  (1.0)  ________  (1.0)
SUB-TOTAL                                                   76.7        12                    779
(69.1      (1.0)                  (70.1)
BS: ROADS AND BRDGGES
1.      Works                                                       48.6                               48.6
(43.7)                            (43.7)
2.       Constncy                                                               2A                      2A
(1.9)                  (1.9)
SUB-TOTAL                                                   48.6        2A                    51.0
(43.7      (1.9)                  (45.6)
SUB-TOTAL OF COMPONENT B                                   227.3        9.5                  236.8
(204.4)     (9.0)                  (213.4)



44
C.       COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION SUPPORT
1.       Goods                                                           34          3.0                      64
_______                                               ________      (2.7)       (2.4)                    (5.1)
2        Consltancy                                                                  22                        2.2
(22)                      (2.2)
3.       Otier                                                                       3.9                      3.9
_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~(1.7)  _ _ _     (1.7)
SUB-TOTAL OF COMPONENT C                                         3A         9.1                      12.5
________       (2.7)       (63)                     (9.0)
D.       DISASTER MANAGEMENT
1.       Goods                                              31.2          7.1        2.5                      40.8
(25.0)       (5.6)       (2.0)                    (32.6)
2.       Consultancy                                                                  7.9                      7.9
______                               ________                  ~~~~~   ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~(63)  __ _ _ _(6.3)
3.       Odher                                                                       2.4                       2.4
(1.1)   __ _ _ _ _ _      (1.1)
SUB-TOTAL OF COMPONENT D                           312           7.1       12.8                      51.1
(25.0)        (5.6)      (9.4)                    (40.0)
FE        PROJECTMANAGEI2ENr
I1.      Consultancy                                                                 3.4                       3.4
(2.7)                     (2.7)
2.       Odthr                                                                        2.6                      2.6
_____              ~~~~~~(1.5)                (1.5)
SUB-TOTAL OF COMPONENT E                                             6.0                       6.0
(4.2)                    (42)
SUMMARY
1.       Wodrs                                                          224.6        03                      224.9
(202.1)      (03)                    (202.4)
2.       Goods                                              31.2         14.9         6A                      525
(25.0)       (12.0)      (5.1)                    (42.1)
3.       ConsultanCY&Trainig                                                        20.2                      202
(16.5)                   (16.5)
4.       Opewatng Costs                                                               8.9                      8.9
(43)    -                 (4.3)
5.       Housing Reconstiuction                                                     1972                     197.2
(177.5)                  (177.5)
TOTAL                                              3L2         239.5      233.0                     503.7
_250)       (214.1)     (2j _      _              (4428)
Figures in pa    hesis are the amimts tobe financed by the IDA All the costs mclude conngenes.
21  Indudes dvil works, goods, and seices to be prvaned out of Force Accomt and tngh natimnal shoppng, consling services,
taiing, tmical assistance, incrernental costs etc
1 Inchxdi contingencies
Note: QCBS = Qualty- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fxed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Quaiafications
Oder = Selection of mdividual consultants (per Secion V of Conslants Guidelins), Single
Source Selection of Firms or SOE fir Tramiing, etc. Selection of dndviual consultants (per
Section V of Consultants Guideines), Comneudal Pracces, etc.
N.BF. =Not IDA-financed
Figures in parentiesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA



45
Ptior review threshold
Table B: Threshold for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Sr.                           Contract       Vahle           ent         Contracts Subjecd
No.   Expendiure Category     Threshold             Method               to  Puior Rediew
(UJS$ thousand)                           (US$ million)
1.    Works                   All Contracts of      NCB                  US$140.5 million -
-Civil Works            US$500,000 and                            72 Nos.
above.
All ICB contracts for
civil work [if any].
2.    Goods                   Furst three comntacts  NCB                 US$0.5 million - 3
irewpective of value                      Nos.
All Contracts of     ICB                  US$31.2 nfllion -
US$200,000 and above                      20 Nos.
3.     Consuling Services     For US$100,000 and    Bank Guidelines and  US$18.5 million
above for firfs and  as stated in Table 'A'
US$50,000 and above  above.
For Idividual
Consultants
Total value of contracts subject to pnior review: US$180.7 million. [his constitutes about 59% of total costs
excluding housing component
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment - Medium
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once in every six months (excluding special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits).



46
Attachment 5
Financial Management Arrangements
Counby Issues
1. The following country issues will apply:
(a) Funds flow. The issue of availability of funds on a timely basis to the project implementing entity
applies to the project to the extent of this being a state sector project in Gujarat However, in Phase L
GSDMA did not face any fund shortage situation with GOG exhibiting comnitment to the projet.
(b) Audit reports. Quality and timeliness of audit reports as the audit of GSDMA will be conducted by a
AG (Audit), Gujarat However, the audit report for Phase I was received in time and GOG is in a
dialogue with AG (Audit) on a project specific TOR.
2. The following country issues do not apply:
(a) Accounting system. GSDMA's existing accounting system is capable of geneting financial
management information which could be used for decision making.
(b) Fnancial statements. Project Fmancial Statements of GSDMA are also expected to be produced
uihike Govt executed projects. However, their audit will present a challenge and GSDMA is in
dialogue with AG (Audit) to ensure that these statements are audited
Strengths and Weaknesses
3. Strengths: The project has the following strengths in the area of financial management: (i) GSDMA
has handled Phase I and the existing project personnel are trained in Bani's disbursement procedures; (ii) an
opeations manual has been prepared and is being used for Phase I which details the funds flow process, the
accounting anangements, financial pting, auditing etc. and (iii) the financal porting system from the
District Collectors to GSDMA for the housing component has worked fairly satisfactorily.
4. Significant weamess
Significant weakness                               Resolution
Staffing: Even though GSDMA is adequately        GSDMA will not advance funds to a line
staffed, some of the line departments are not    department till a nodal accounts officer has
adequately staffed to satisfactorily account for  been appointed and it is satisfied that an
receipt and usage of funds project funds         adequate arrangement for accounting for
receipts and usage of money is in place.
GSDMA has adequate capacity to carry out
such an assessment.
Audit Issues: Both the statutory audit report issued  GSDMA has drawn up a detailed action
by AG and the internal audit reports issued by a  plan on audit observations and is in the
firm of chartered accountants have raised control  process of correcting the shortcomings.
issues, especially in the housing sector.        GSDMA will resolve these audit
observations by end of August 2002 and
initiate recoveries, if required.
ImplemenlingEntiy
5. The implementing agency for the project is GSDMA which is a registered society. Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) supported by two Additional Chief Executive Officers (ACEOs) from GOG heads this unit
For the execution of the project some line departments will support GSDMA. The major line depaitments
that are expected to assist GSDMA in the execution of the project are: Roads and Building Department,
Revenue Depaltment (including District Collector's and Taluka offices), Water Resources Department,



47
Higher and Technical Education Department, Roads & Building (Panchayat), Home Departnent, Urban
Development Department and various urban local bodies.
Funds Flow
6. The primary budgeting exercise will be done at the line department level. However, these budgets will be
integrated in GSDMA budget and will figure as a single item budget head in GOG budget
7. The funds will flow from GOI to GOG and from GOG to GSDMA with GOG assuming the
responsibility for transfering the funds to GSDMA within 5 days of GOG receiving the ftmds. GSDMA will
advance funds to the line departments based on their funds stats and projected funds requirement
8. In Phase L fund transfers froim GOG to GSDMA were in line with funds requirements. GSDMA will
advance fimds to the line deparlments responsible for the execution of the project activities. The line
departments will operate a separate Bank account for receipt and usage of the project funds.
StAffin
9. A Diretr Fmance heads GSDMA's Fmance function. A Controller of Accounts assists him  The
Controller of Accounts provides leadership and strategic direction on financial aspects of the projects.
Necessary computer-literate core staff has also been appointed at GSDMA. The line departments will appoint
nodal accounts persons who will be responsible for the maintenance of books of accounts and financial
reporting for the project activities
Accournig Poles and Picedures
10. An Operations Manual has been developed and is in use in Phase L The Manual laid down in detail the
applicable accounting policies and procedures. The books of account will be maintained on a cash basis.
Standard books of accounts (cash and bank books, journals, ledgers, etc.) will be mnaintained at GSDMA on
the compunerized accounting system cuety being used.
11. The Operations Manual also laid down the accounting policies and procedures to be followed by the line
departments - consistent with Govt. accounting systems - assisting GSDMA in the execution of the project
These guidelines have largely been adhered to in Phase L
12. A Chart of Accounts has been developed to enable data to be captured and classified by expenditure
center, project components, and disbuem nt categories.
IntemlAudit
13. GSDMA has appointed and will continue to engage a firn of chartered accountants as itrnal auditors
with TOR satisfactory to the Bank to stngthen the intemal control system for the project The itemal
auditors are expected to carry out a 100 percent check of the transactions. The intemal audit reports, which
have been submitted on a monthly basis, have indicated some control observations. GSDMA has drawn a
detailed action plan on mnajor internal auditors observations. GSDMA will investigate and resolve all these
observations by end of August2002
F.entalAudit
14. The audit of project expenditure incurred by GSDMA and the participating line depariments will be
conducted by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA, under terms of reference (TOR) also satisfactory to
the IDA and will be furnished within six months after the end of each year. Notwithstanding the audits,
certificate of expenditures from an independent auditor acceptable to IDA shall be funiished by GSDMA.
The certificate for the half year ending September will be furnished before the end of November and for the
year ending March will be furnished no later than June 30.
15. The audit of Phase I is being camied out by Accountant General (Audit), Gujarat GSDMA has
submitted, in tine, an audit report (including on expenditure incuned by the line departments) for the Phase I
for the initial six months ended September 30, 2001. However, the audit report is qualified and has some



48
observations mainly on the housing sector. The observations include irregular release of cash assistance,
delay on flow of funds, doubtful execution of work, inadequate record keeping, excess/duplicate payments to
the beneficianes and incomplete bank account reconciliations. GSDMA has submitted a detailed action plan
on some important audit observations and is in the process of correcting the shortcomings.
Analysis ofAuditIssues
16. In the six monthly audit report for the Phase I for the period ended September 30, 2001, the statutory
auditors (AG (Audit) - Gujarat) made audit observations related mainly to the housing sector, as mentioned in
para 15 above.
17. The internal auditors also, in their monthly audit reports have indicated some areas of concem, again
mainly in the housing sector. Their observations include excess/duplicate payments being made to the
beneficiaries, inadequate documrentation, irregular payments and incomplete bank account reconciliations.
18. The intnal auditors carried out an impact analysis of the audit observations - which indicated that (a) in
comparison to the total number of transactions (the internal auditors are doing a 100 percent check in Phase 1),
the number of observations were not significant Out of a total coverage of Rs. 2,285.8 million, the queries
were raised (including many of them on procedumal lapses), on an amount of Rs. 38.4 million (1.68 percent);
(b) the number (1.44 percent) of observations on the Bank financed housing categoies are lower than the
number (2.62 percent) of observations for non-Bank financed activities; (c) there were no discemable
geographic trend to indicate problem disticts; and (d) there was significant improvement in understanding
and administration of the second installment of financial assistance on housing. The action plan and the
impact analysis report indicate the action plan drawn should satisfactorily address the statutory and interal
auditors' observations.
Reporifng and Monitoiing
19. The financial reporting from the line departmnts to GSDMA will be on a monthly basis. GSDMA will
consolidate the financial reports on a monty basis. In Phase L there was initially a lag in reporting from the
line departments to GSDMA which was addressed subsequently. GSDMA and the Bank have agreed on the
form and content of annual financial statements and Fmancial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to be submitted to
the Bank on a quarterly basis. The FMR formats are a part of the PIP.
20. GSDMA is cunrently using an off the shelf software for its accounting and financial reporting needs.
Fmancial statements for the project are generated through this software and other specific reports required are
prepared using the data generated by the system on spread sheets. The input from the line depatments to
GSDMA is in manual mode.
21. GSDMA is generating Project Fmancial Statements fromn the system being curndy used and the
financial accounting reports are expected to be generated from the same system. The physical progress and
procurement reports will be generated off the system
Impad of PrcrementAmgements
22. Since the procurement will involve a large number of contracts awarded by line departments, accounting
arrangements in the line departments are very important and will be focused during the project
implementation.
DisbursementAAmngemenls
23. Disbursements from IDA credit would initially be made in the traditional system (reimbursement with
full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and could be converted to the Fmancial Monitoring
Report (FMR) based disbursement at the option of GOG and GOI after the project successfilly demonstrates
generation of quality FMRs.
24. A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be operated by the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Government of India (GOI). The authorized allocation of the



49
Special Account would be US$60.0 miDion. The Special Account would be operated in accordance with the
Bank's operational policies.
25. The project will submit withdrawal applications to Controller of Aid, Accounts and Audit (CAA&A) in
DEA for onward submission to the Bank for replenishment of the special account or reimbursement.
26. Disbursenent will be made on the basis of statement of expenditure for (a) civil works for contracts not
exceeding US$500,000 (b) Goods for contracts not exceeding US$200,000, (c) consultants for contracts not
exceeding US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals and (d) increnental qopeming and
maintenance costs defined as the costs of operation and maintenance of additional offices, equipment and
vehicles, hiring of offices, equipment and vehicles, and salaries and allowances of contractual staff, incurred
for the purpose of camrying out the proposed ProjecL
27. Action Plan
Action                      Responsible         Completion Date
Person
Appointment of a nodal finance person in the   Secretary -    Before the funds are released
line departments to ensure there is adequate   Line           to the line department.
accounting for funds received for the project  department
Investigation and resolution of statutory and  CEO -          August 31, 2002
intemal audit observations                     GSDMA
Supenion Plan
28. From a Fmanial Managernt stand point, the project will need intensive supervision for the reason of
the emergency nature of the pnject and the fact that the expenditure will be incurred by a fairly large number
of line departnents at decentalized locations. The focus during the supervision wil be on the capacity
building activities including at the line depamnts to ensure that resources and expenditures are being
adequately accounted for, review of fuids flow systems and resolution of audit issues.



50
Attachment 6
Implementation schedule
Components       Base Cost    Start   End                                               Project Implementation Period
Million Rs  Date    Date     3/02     6/02     9/02     12/02    3/03     6/03     9/03          33       04          9/04     1        3/05
o z      Rural Housing         4350.0     03/02   12/02
02z
x ui     Urban Housing         4000.0     03/02   12103            _
Technical              570.0     02102  04105          . =_u__..-
Major Repairs           40.0     06/02  03/03
Reconstruction         420.0     11/02  04/05
Consultancy            104.0     02/02  04/05         .       *.
Services
|c        eFuriture &             6.0     07/02   04/05
|   Equipment
x        Municipal Schools       54.2     04/02   11/03
u    Minor Repairs            0.2    0402    10/02
.2   Major Repairs            2.3     07/02   04/03
Reconstruction          48.0     07/02   11/03
Consuitancy              3.5     04/02   11/03  _   _
o         Services
FFurnture &               0.2    0/02    11/03
Equipment
|            ePublic&Buldings-  1779.3    11101   09104                                                  _ _ _ _     _ _   _  _     m         m       urn
State R&BD
c Major Repairs          500.0     11/01   04/04
Reconstruction        1101.5     11/01  09/04
Consuitancy               102.3     02/0    09/04
t    Services
* Furniture &             75.5     002      904                      --          -     a-.-aa-au-aa-
Equipment            ________



51
Components     Base Cost  Start  End                                       Project Implementation Period
Million Rs  Date  Date  3/02     6/02    9/02   12/02   3/03   6/03    9/03   12/03   3/04    6/04   9/04    12/04   3/05
PublicyBuidings-   111.0    10/01   03         _                                       IL1
Panchayat
Reconstnjction     108.8    10/01  06/03
Consultancy          2.2    04/02  06/03
Services
Home Dearmet       372.8    03102  12/04       m      u*-m-..-.un*-.                                            r.m 
Housing
Reconstruction     366.8    10/02  12/04
Consultancy          6.0    03/02  12/04       - - u - - - u
Services
Disaster           395.0    01/03  03/04 _  _    _    _          _    _   _n_.in
management
InstituteI
C-onstruction      395.0    01/03  03/04 _
State R&B                          12103     un       ~   -   -      
Department          214.1   11/01
Buildings
2 m Panchiayat                                             ..-a         mr        r.         r 
Department          199.     06102  1`1103
Buildings
m   Municipal Buildings  627.8  04/02  04/04
.E  Consultancy          175     1/1   04/04 -   r 
Servies                 1.       10
a.
o   Strengthening      2000.0   08/02  05/04                    -    -       -      -.      m            m     .
f   co
2     consultancy servioes  100.0  11/01  05/04-            u      ~   ~        E    u  n    U   un       nn     *
o Strengthening        3189.3    12101  03/04           r _ _ _ _EEEE
E                        5
c o  Consuhtancy                       03/04
Servces50.0                    11/01           ..        .. nur       nu-          nu     -*-m



52
z e  Consuitancyservices 329.5  092 03/04  _ _
15E a Furniture &  17. 
1 0   ugprne&    1D7565  01/03 03/04___________________ 
0 ~  Equipment
Co   Operations Cost &  ~ 1120/5m.m                         m                             m 
2    Others       100.0  10102  035
Fumhure &    270.0  03/02 09/03  _    .   . _rn _   ___  ___
c   Equiprnent
c :  Consultancy   90.0  08/02  03/04
E a  Services
E:E  Others          -   042  09/03
f   I IEC Actvfties,  160.0  11/01 0410S w. _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ =
Training & Workshop   _      __
Consultancy  140.0  04/02 04105 _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
EServices
U C  Others        110.0



MAP SECTION






68'            690            700            71 °           720            730            740            75S
This nmp  pos producedby tm Mop Design Un of The World Book.                                 INDIA
c1ho-           nPAK ISTAN                                                         GUJARAT EMERGENCY
eno5.5'\     o     (.-     - :P,,EARTHQUAKE RECON-
A X tn--->  J  1-_ 2  ;STRUCTION PROJECT
'--4--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
24'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
240 ~~~~~~   r           J armowo. ~~~~~~~~~~~~RAJASTHAN
[ ~  ~   s,4 '           ;/;.y.K                                                             A
' ~'s'                       S C  3'.2
5..,'.rD '                 AHMEDABAD           22A   S C
-1  ~ ~ ~ ~~SRIENDRAAGAR         /%od0User       'I   Gdkp/
GuildAwl s  flij L5(I fldNJ5,  r~§  5       1 HoII( r  t-'   MADHYA
GuOki. of KutcA0PRADESH
lea'O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
4$  .~~..-.  if W?  )P4m$~~~ : K0 T,
~IM0NL~ qe#,ett '  /      -         OTHER              R   OA   DS P NssiVAQDARA
B  uc-~~~~~~~~-
X  EARTHQUAKE EPICENTER  .ET .iuloi .a                                          KIeM         HA AS TR
(3  STATE CAPITAL   Dob of occurrence: ~ ~ ~ ~ --R-E 260/20  Khmb At A  I,. 
--- -----SEVERELY AFFECTED TALUKAS (SUB-DISTRICTS) R:). MOI:\
AFFECTED TALUKAS (SUB-DISTRICTS)                              Gu9ro 
210
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS  Focus:                                                    r
OTHER ROADSNooi                                                          K:::  TEDAG
21    RAiLROADS                                       w
0  SELECTED TOWNS
@  DISTRICT CAPITALS  ~EARTHQUAKE DATA:  Diu bslood             okd       rMAHARASHTRA
®  STATE CAPITAL     Dote of occurrence: 26/01/2001DA                 N
SELECTED TALUKA BOUNDARIES  rime: 8:46 a.m.Dmn
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES  Mageitude: 6.9 Richtes- scaleA R B N
Latitude: 23.40 N.~ 
- - STATE BOUNDARIES  ~   02                         E                       J0         3 0    Kilometers 20 
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  Foces: 25 km. deep&
- 200                                                                             NAGAR H-A VELI 0  35    70 Niles
680             6~90           7,0             7              720             730            740



