Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3637 IN
Project Agreement
(Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF GUJARAT
Dated June 4, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3637 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the STATE OF GUJARAT, acting by its Governor 
(Gujarat).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India 
Page  2
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three hundred and fifty six million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR356,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Gujarat agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Gujarat, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
(a)
 “Building Codes” means the relevant Building Codes made applicable in 
Gujarat;
(b)
“Central Implementation Review Group” means the Central Implementation 
Review Group to be maintained by Gujarat pursuant to paragraph 7(b) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement;
(c)
“Dam Safety Panels” mean the Dam Safety Panels to be maintained by Gujarat 
pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Environmental and Social Analysis Report” means the environmental and social 
analysis report dated March 11, 2002 as amended from time to time, carried out by Gujarat, 
satisfactory to the Association, to assess, among other things, the environmental and social 
impacts associated with the Project; mechanisms for mitigating and monitoring adverse impacts 
of carrying out the Project, including the rehabilitation of temporary shelter sites, impacts 
associated with repairs and strengthening of roads and bridges, debris, rubble and material 
management; and an emergency preparedness plan for selected dams;
(e)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management plan 
prepared and adopted by Gujarat, contained in the Environmental and Social Analysis Report 
and satisfactory to the Association, as such plan may be updated from time to time by agreement 
of the Borrower and the Association, setting forth the measures to be taken by Gujarat for 
mitigating and monitoring the adverse environmental and social impacts resulting from the 
implementation and operation of the Project;
(f)
“Housing Recovery Plan” means the Housing Recovery Plan to be maintained by 
Gujarat pursuant to paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Housing Rehabilitation Policy Framework” means the Housing Rehabilitation 
Page  3
Policy Framework to be maintained by Gujarat pursuant to paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement;
(h)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan of 
Gujarat for the carrying out the Project, dated March 22, 2002 and amended from time to time, as 
agreed with the Association;
(i)
“Resettlement Framework” means the resettlement framework adopted by 
Gujarat for the Gujarat State Highway Project  (Loan 4577 IN), for which the Bank assisted with 
financing pursuant to a Loan Agreement dated October 18, 2000, between the Borrower and the 
Bank; and
(j)
“Tribal Development Plan” means the Tribal Development Plan to be 
implemented by Gujarat pursuant to paragraph 6 (d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Gujarat declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through its relevant departments and agencies under the overall coordination of the 
GSDMA, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and  technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and Gujarat shall otherwise agree, Gujarat shall carry out or shall cause 
GSDMA to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)
Gujarat shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to GSDMA in 
accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of 
enabling the Authority to coordinate the implementation of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Gujarat shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use  of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Gujarat shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
Page  4
between the Association and Gujarat, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Gujarat on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Gujarat shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
Gujarat shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Credit, or the performance by Gujarat of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05.
Gujarat shall afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with Gujarat on any matters relating to the Operational Manual.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Gujarat shall, or shall cause GSDMA to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, satisfactory to the Association, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, and to register separately 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project, of the departments and agencies 
of Gujarat and of GSDMA responsible for carrying out the Project.
(b)
Gujarat shall, or shall cause GSDMA to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six 
months after the end of each Fiscal Year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Gujarat shall take, or shall cause GSDMA to take, necessary measures to enable 
Gujarat or GSDMA, as the case may be, not later than October 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a 
Project Management Report for such period in respect of the Project that:
Page  5
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon taking such necessary measures referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
Gujarat shall prepare, or cause GSDMA to prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Gujarat shall, beginning with the first period ending September 30, 2002 and until 
completion of the Project, provide to the Association a certificate of expenditure from an 
independent auditor acceptable to the Association, in accordance with appropriate accounting 
principles and procedures acceptable to the Association, evidencing the expenditures of its 
departments and GSDMA in respect of the Project, for the six-month period ending September 
30 and the  Fiscal Year ending March 31. 
(b)
The certificates referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 3.03 shall be provided 
to the Association by no later than: (i) November 30 of a Fiscal Year for the first six-month 
period of that Fiscal Year ending September 30; and (ii) June 30 of the following Fiscal Year for 
the Fiscal Year ending March 31.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of Gujarat 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
Page  6
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify Gujarat of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For Gujarat:
Chief Secretary 
Government of Gujarat
Gandhinagar
Gujarat, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Gujarat may be taken or executed by 
its Secretary, Finance Department, or such other person or persons as Gujarat shall designate in 
writing, and Gujarat shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in New Delhi, 
India,  as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF GUJARAT
By /s/ S. G. Mankad
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
:
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  8
(b)
Notification and Advertising
:
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more 
shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under 
paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding advertised nationally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association: (a) 
works under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $225,100,000 equivalent; and 
(b) goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $14,900,000 million.
2.
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $6,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of International and National Shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works through Community Participation
Small repair and reconstruction works of schools estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, related to 
civil works under Part C of the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association as per paragraph 3.15 of Procurement Guidelines.
4.
Procurement for Private Housing
Goods and works required for reconstruction and repair of damaged private houses 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 per unit, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $197,200,000 equivalent may be procured by beneficiaries in 
accordance with the established local private sector or commercial practices acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
Page  9
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  10
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to: (a) contract for works in accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Section I; (b) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Section I; (c) first three contracts for goods, 
irrespective of value, awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section I; and 
(d) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section I.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least Cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  11
2.
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by social workers, Dam Safety Panel members and trainers shall 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.19 of the Consultant Guidelines 
and procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
Page  12
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Gujarat shall implement or shall cause GSDMA to implement the Project in accordance 
with the Project Implementation Plan and the Operational Manual.
2.
Gujarat shall carry out or cause to be carried out all civil works under the Project to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with design standards and technical 
specifications satisfactory to the Association. Such standards and specifications shall include, 
inter alia: (i) seismic and cyclone resistance features; and (ii) adequate measures for mitigating 
adverse environmental impact.
3.
Gujarat shall maintain GSDMA, and two Dam Safety Panels with composition, powers, 
functions and resources satisfactory to the Association, and shall assist in  carrying out of 
preparation and implementation of emergency preparedness plan for selected dams in accordance 
with the Environmental and Social Analysis.
4.
Gujarat shall not carry out or cause to be carried out any activities under the Project 
involving any relocation of people to new areas unless:
(a)
such relocation is carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Framework 
and a Resettlement Plan, satisfactory to the Association, prepared in accordance with the 
Resettlement Framework and the Environmental and Social Analysis, provided, however, that 
any large-scale relocation (i.e., larger than 25 families) is carried out with the prior agreement of 
the Association;
(b)
such resettlement plan referred to in clause (a) of this paragraph, shall be 
prepared by an agency experienced in planning and implementing resettlement plans, satisfactory 
to the Association; and 
(c)
to the extent practicable, Gujarat makes available land for such relocation that is 
owned by it and is free from encumbrances and encroachments and or occupants or obtains such 
land which are made available to it on a voluntary basis, with or without compensation, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided that if compensation is to 
be paid, it shall be determined in accordance with the resettlement plan referred to in clause (a) 
of the paragraph 4, Resettlement Framework and the Environmental and Social Analysis.
Page  13
5.
Gujarat shall implement or shall cause GSDMA to implement the environmental 
mitigation, monitoring, institutional strengthening and other measures set out in the 
Environmental Management Plan in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time 
schedule and other provisions set out therein and shall not take any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such implementation.
6.
Gujarat shall:
(a)
carry out a program of social assessment, in accordance with procedures and 
terms of references satisfactory to the Association, identifying the social needs of the people 
affected by the implementation of the Project with particular reference to vulnerable groups 
focusing, inter alia, on women, children, scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, minorities, the 
disabled, destitute and aged, identifying appropriate recovery programs for those affected, 
improving the effectiveness of institutions involved in the recovery program, formulating future 
disaster preparedness, identifying land acquisition and resettlement-rehabilitation issues;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association,  a quarterly report setting out the progress in carrying out the assessment 
referred to in clause (a) of this paragraph;
(c)
 based on the results of the assessment pursuant to clause (a) paragraph 6, take 
such measures, satisfactory to the Association, for managing the social dimensions of the 
recovery program;
(d)
without limitation to clause (c) of this paragraph, prepare one or more  Tribal 
Development Plans (TDP), satisfactory to the Association where the assessment carried out 
pursuant to clause (a) of this paragraph, identifies the presence of tribal groups affected by the 
implementation of the Project, such plan to be prepared in accordance with the Environmental 
and Social Analysis; and 
(e)
implement under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, TDPs as 
referred to in clause (d) of this paragraph.
7.
Gujarat shall:
(a)
maintain the Housing Rehabilitation Policy Framework (Housing Framework) 
and a Housing Recovery Plan (Housing Plan), and without prejudice to paragraphs (1) and (2) 
hereof, implement Part A of the Project in accordance with such Housing Framework and 
Housing Plan and with the objectives of ensuring that the housing options include features that 
encourage public-private participation, the options available to beneficiaries are owner-driven 
and that the selection process is participatory;
(b)
maintain the Central Implementation Group established by Gujarat with 
composition, powers, functions and resources satisfactory to the Association for purposes of 
implementation, monitoring and quality review of Part A of the Project; and
(c)
maintain the institutional framework set out in the Housing Framework and the 
Housing Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
8.
Gujarat shall take necessary measures to ensure that:
Page  14
(a)
 revisions made from time to time to Building Codes are made applicable in the 
state in accordance with appropriate administrative procedures;
(b)
appropriate action is taken by urban local bodies in the Affected Areas to adopt 
and enforce Building Codes by no later than September 30, 2002; and
(c)
appropriate guidelines for construction of safe buildings are evolved for rural 
areas and disseminated throughout the state. 
9.
Without prejudice to paragraph (2) hereof, Gujarat shall: (a) carry out or cause to be 
carried out, construction works under Part B of the Project in accordance with approvals 
provided by a Dam Safety Panel referred to in paragraph (3) hereof; and 
(b) implement measures, satisfactory to the Association, on the non-structural aspects of dam 
safety, including training of Project  staff associated with flood forecasting and flood monitoring, 
training of village/taluka level government functionaries and village representatives on disaster 
preparedness operations, preparation and implementation of reservoir operation and 
maintenance.
10.
Gujarat shall maintain a quality control mechanism, satisfactory to the Association, 
applicable to construction works under Part B of the Project.
11.
Gujarat shall provide quarterly reports to the Association within 15 days after the end of 
each quarter describing the progress achieved to date in implementing the Project. All such 
reports shall be prepared in a format satisfactory to the Association.
12.
Gujarat shall provide to the Association technical and quality audit in respect of the 
implementation of the Project in accordance with terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory 
to the Association.
13.
Gujarat shall:
(a)
continue its initiative in preparing, and endeavor to complete by September 30, 
2002, a disaster management policy, satisfactory to the Association, focusing on capacity 
building, education and communication for the purpose of reducing the impact of disasters and 
ensuring better preparedness; and
(b)
by December 31, 2002, introduce in its legislative assembly a draft of a disaster 
management bill, with the objective of establishing a sustainable long-term disaster management 
system.
14.
Gujarat shall cause GSDMA:
(a)
to maintain throughout the life of the Project, a finance/management professional 
to function as a controller of accounts, whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory 
to the Association;
(b)
to maintain a chartered accountant firm as internal auditors with terms and 
references satisfactory to the Association; and
Page  15
(c)
to advance funds to the line departments only upon receiving a confirmation 
from the line departments that: (i) a separate bank account has been opened in the name of 
GSDMA to be used specifically for the Project; and (ii) an official has been designated by the 
relevant line department to interact with GSDMA on financial matters. 
15.
Gujarat shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about September 30, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of such 
Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by October 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
