Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3637 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 4, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3637 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 2002, between INDIA, acting by its President  (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
Page  2
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Gujarat with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the credit 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to the State of Gujarat 
(Gujarat) as set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and Gujarat (the Project 
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through         October 6, 1999) (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affected Area” means the area in Gujarat (as hereafter defined) damaged by the 
earthquake of January 26, 2001;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower and Gujarat’s fiscal year, beginning 
on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year;
(e)
“GSDMA” means the Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority established 
as a registered society in accordance with the relevant laws of the Borrower, and includes any 
successor thereof;
(f)
“Gujarat” means the State of Gujarat, a State of India, and includes any 
Page  3
successor thereof;
(g)
“Operational Manual” means the manual dated July 3, 2001, prepared and 
adopted by GSDMA, which sets out the terms, conditions, procedures and eligibility criteria in 
accordance with which GSDMA shall carry out the Project, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
(h)
“Project Agreement” means the project agreement between the Association and 
Gujarat of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(k)
“Water Resource Department” means the Water Resource Department of 
Gujarat.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to three hundred and fifty six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
356,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
Page  4
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
October 15 and April 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  October 15 and 
April 15 commencing October 15, 2012 and ending April 15, 2037.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 15, 2022 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) 
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent 
(2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
Page  5
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause Gujarat 
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of 
Gujarat therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Gujarat to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Gujarat in 
accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States 
of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Gujarat pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Page  6
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one year after the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
Gujarat shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Development 
Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Gujarat will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Gujarat shall have taken any action for the dissolution, disestablishment or 
suspension of operation of GSDMA, or GSDMA shall have amended or repealed its 
Page  7
memorandum or rules and regulations so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of 
GSDMA to carry out its functions under the Project Agreement.
(d)
Any change shall have been made to the Operational Manual, so as to materially 
and adversely affect the ability of GSDMA to perform any of its functions under the Project 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to the relevant provision of the General Conditions relating to 
other events of acceleration, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the event 
specified in Section 5.01 (a), (c) and (d) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions, namely that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Gujarat, and is legally binding upon Gujarat in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by Gujarat, and is legally binding upon Gujarat in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy 
Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
New Delhi, India
Page  8
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-31-66175 FINE IN
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in New Delhi, 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Adarsh Kishore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
305,600,000
90%
(2)
Goods, equipment, 
33,800,000
100% of foreign
vehicles, furniture,
expenditures
materials and supplies
100% of local
expenditures (ex factory cost) 
and 80% of local expenditures 
for other items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
     11,600,000
80%
(4)
Other consultants, training, 
1,700,000
100% 
workshops and study tours
(5)
Incremental operating costs
3,300,000
70% until 
April 30, 2003; 50% 
until April 30, 2004; 
and 30% thereafter
        TOTAL
356,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the costs of operation and 
Page  11
maintenance of additional offices, equipment and vehicles, and salaries of additional staff, 
incurred for the purpose of carrying out the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph 1 above, eligible expenditures under 
Category (4), shall refer to those expenditures incurred by those entities or persons who are not 
liable to tax under the laws of the Borrower.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $40,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after February 1, 2002.
5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) works under contracts not exceeding $500,000 
equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent;    (iii) consultants’ 
services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, in the case of firms; (iv) 
consultants’ services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, in the case of 
individuals; and (v) training, workshops and study tours, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account, in the 
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02(b) of the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
Page  12
(c)
if the Borrower or Gujarat shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement and Section 3.01 (b)(ii) of 
the Project Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special 
Account or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Page  13
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $60,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $30,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR75,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  14
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $120,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist Gujarat in carrying out the second phase of a 
program of rehabilitation and reconstruction in the areas affected by the Gujarat earthquake of 
January 26, 2001, including restoration of housing and public buildings, restoration of basic 
infrastructure in the roads and irrigation sectors, and development of an institutional framework 
to allow better disaster mitigation and risk management for future natural disasters.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:  Permanent Housing Reconstruction
Carrying out a program of reconstruction of fully collapsed houses and repair of partially 
damaged houses in the Affected Area. 
Part B
:  Dam Safety and Irrigation
Reconstruction, strengthening and repair of damaged earthen dams for medium and 
minor irrigation and water supply schemes in the Affected Area, including embankments, 
Page  15
appurtenant works, and distribution networks, and provision of technical assistance for design, 
construction monitoring, quality control, supervision, environmental management and 
implementation of the works related to such schemes, as well as strengthening the capacity of the 
Water Resources Department for quality control and supervision monitoring.
Part C
:  Public Buildings
(a)
Repairs and strengthening of damaged public buildings, provision of furniture, 
equipment and technical assistance.
(b)
Reconstruction of administrative buildings and residential quarters, restoration 
works and retrofitting of buildings including, inter alia, schools, technical education institutions, 
fire stations, hospitals, administrative and residential buildings of Gujarat and provision of 
furniture, equipment and technical assistance.
(c)
Construction of buildings and control rooms, including emergency response 
centers, for developing emergency management in the Affected Areas and provision of technical 
assistance.
Part D
:  Roads and Bridges
The rehabilitation of damaged State roads in the Affected Area, including strengthening 
and reconstruction of damaged bridges and structures, and provision of technical assistance for 
survey, design and technical audit.
Part E
:  Community Participation
Improving the capacity of government agencies, communities and non-governmental 
organizations in the Affected Area to participate in activities related to the implementation of the 
Project through, inter alia, mobilization, communication, and provision of training.
Part F
:  Disaster Management
Developing a disaster management strategy with focus on reducing risk and vulnerability 
through:
(a)
carrying out a program to address both pre-disaster emergency preparedness and 
post-disaster emergency response and training;
(b)
hazard mitigation and risk transfer activities to support the studies necessary for 
designing and implementing hazard reduction activities in the Affected Areas; and
(c)
strengthening the capacity of GSDMA, and establishing Gujarat Institute of 
Disaster Management (GIDM) and the Institute for Seismic Research (ISR). 
Page  16
Part G
: Project Management Support
Support to GSDMA to ensure the effective carrying out of the Project and the 
supervision of its execution through the provision of incremental operating costs, equipment and 
vehicles, and consultant’s services focusing, inter alia, on training, program management, quality 
assurance, monitoring and evaluation, environmental assessment, and audits.
* * 
*
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2005.
