                                  Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                   Report No: ICR0000638




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-36370)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 356.0MILLION

                      (US$442.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                    FOR A

     GUJARAT EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT




                                 April 29, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Urban and Water Unit
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2008)
                               Currency Unit = Indian Rupees
                                    INRe.1.00 = US$ [0.022]
                                     US$ 1.00 = [INR 45.00]
                                        FISCAL YEAR

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB     Asian Development Bank                     GoI       Government of India
APL     Above Poverty Line                         GSDMA     Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority
BME     Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation          GSHP      Gujarat State Highways Project
BPL     Below Poverty Line                         GSSI      Gujarat School Safety Initiative
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                ICB       International Competitive Bidding
CBO     Community Based Organization               IDA       International Development Association

CBDMP   Community Based Disaster Management        IEC       Information, Education and Communication
        Program
CBDRM   Community Based Disaster Risk              ISR       Institute of Seismological Research
        Management
CEO     Chief Executive Officer                    ISR       Implementation Status Report
CP      Community Participation                    MTR       Mid-Term Review
DCA     Development Credit Agreement               M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
DEA     Department of Economic Affairs             NCB       National Competitive Bidding
DEOC    District Emergency Operation Centers       NDMA      National Disaster Management Authority
DM      Disaster Management                        NIDM      National Institute of Disaster Management
DMA     Disaster Management Authority              NGO       Non Governmental Organization
DMCB    Disaster Management Capacity Building      OP        Operational Policy
DSRP    Dam Safety Review Panels                   OBC       Other Backward Class
DRM     Disaster Risk Mitigation                   PAD       Project Appraisal Document
EA      Environmental Assessment                   PDO       Project Development Objective
EMF     Environmental Management Framework         PIP       Project Implementation Plan
EMP     Environmental Management Plan              OP        Operational Policy
EMAP    Environmental Management Action Plan       R&BD      Roads and Buildings Department
EOC     Emergency Operation Centers                SA       Social Assessment
ERC     Emergency Response Center                  SC/ST     Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe
GDMA    Gujarat Disaster Management Act            SEOC      State Emergency Operation Centers
GDCR    General Development Control Regulation     TA        Taluka Administration
GEERP   Gujarat Emergency Earthquake               TDO       Taluka (Sub District) Development Office
        Reconstruction Project
GIDM    Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management   USAID     United States Agency for Institutional
                                                             Development
GoG     Government of Gujarat                      WRD       Water Resources Department



                                 Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero

                               Country Director: N. Roberto Zagha

                                Sector Manager: Junaid K. Ahmad

                          Project Team Leader: Soraya Goga

                             ICR Team Leader: Soraya Goga

                                                               INDIA
      GUJARAT EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
                                                         CONTENTS



Data Sheet

A. Basic Information........................................................................................................................i
B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................................i
C. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................................i
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................................... iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .....................................................................................v
H. Restructuring (if any)..................................................................................................................v
I. Disbursement Profile ...................................................................................................................vi

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
   3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
   6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 19
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 20
   Annex 2: Outputs and Outcomes by Component ......................................................... 22
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 36
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 37
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 39
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 40
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 41
   Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 52
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 53
   MAP IBRD 31839

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Gujarat Emergency
Country:                India                   Project Name:         Earthquake
                                                                      Reconstruction Project
Project ID:             P074018                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-36370
ICR Date:               05/01/2009              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                      INDIA
Original Total
                        XDR 356.0M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 230.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority
Government of India for Polio Eradication
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/20/2001    Effectiveness:                            07/15/2002
                                                                               12/23/2004
Appraisal:             02/26/2002    Restructuring(s):
                                                                               02/29/2008
Approval:              05/02/2002    Mid-term Review:       11/01/2003         11/14/2003
                                     Closing:               10/31/2005         10/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                           No                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Housing construction                                           61               54
Irrigation and drainage                                        13               12
Other social services                                           2                5
Roads and highways                                             14               16
Sub-national government administration                         10               13


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Natural disaster management                                   Primary         Primary
Other urban development                                       Primary         Primary
Participation and civic engagement                            Primary         Primary
Rural policies and institutions                              Secondary       Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          N. Roberto Zagha                Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:            Junaid Kamal Ahmad              Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader:       Soraya Goga                     Shyamal Sarkar
ICR Team Leader:           Soraya Goga
ICR Primary Author:        Soraya Goga




                                             ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to assist Gujarat in carrying out the second phase of a
program of rehabilitation and reconstruction in the areas affected by the Gujarat
earthquake of January 26, 2001, including restoration of housing and public buildings,
restoration of basic infrastructure in the roads and irrigation sectors, and development of
an institutional framework to allow better disaster mitigation and risk management for
future natural disasters.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Revised objectives of the Project were to assist (a) the Borrower in eradicating
poliomyelitis; and (b) Gujarat in carrying out the second phase of a program of
rehabilitation and reconstruction in the areas affected by the Gujarat earthquake of
January 26, 2001, including restoration of housing and public buildings, restoration of
basic infrastructure in the roads and irrigation sectors, and development of an institutional
framework to allow better disaster mitigation and risk management for future natural
disasters.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values         Target Years
               Rehabilitation and reconstruction program in the earthquake affected areas
Indicator 1 :  including restoration of houses, public buildings and basic infrastructure in the
               roads and irrigation sectors completed.

                                          Houses             Houses

                                          Reconstructed:     Reconstructed:Houses

                                          135,000            125,000         Reconstructed:

                                          Hses Repaired:     Hses            125781

                                          75,000             Repaired:       Hses Repaired:

                                          Engr Trained:      42,000          41751

                                          1,000              Engr Trained: Engr Trained: 678

                                          Mason Trained:     1,000           Mason Trained:
                                                             Mason           3832
Value                                     5,000              Trained: 5,000 Dams
quantitative or                           Dams                               Rehabilitation: 225
Qualitative)                              Rehabilitation: 222Dams
                                          P Building: 1200   Rehabilitation: PB: 3701

                                          PB reconstructed:  225             PB reconstructed:

                                          Incl in above      PB: 2000        232

                                          PB retrofitted: 500PB              PB retrofitted: 2848

                                          NB construct:      reconstructed: NB construct:

                                          Constr for GIDM,   200             Constr ISR in

                                          ISR                PB retrofitted: progress GIDM

                                          Roads Imprv:       2000            Roads Impr: 870km

                                          700km              NB construct: roads
                                                             Constr for


                                               iii

                                                               GIDM, ISR
                                                               Roads Impr:
                                                               800km
Date achieved                              10/31/2005          10/31/2008    03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %       All original targets achieved or exceeded except houses repaired or reconstructed

achievement)   due to lower than assessed demand. All revised targets met or exceeded

Indicator 2 :  Institutional framework to allow better disaster mitigation and risk management
               for future natural disasters developed.
                                                               Reduced
                                           Reduced comm        comm          Reduced comm
                                           vulnerability: 500 vulnerability: vulnerability: DM
                                           selfhelp grps       DM            Committees formed
                                           constituted, 100    Committees    in 10289 villages

Value                                      GM conducted        formed        Setup inst

quantitative or                            Setup inst          Setup inst    framework: Mgmt

Qualitative)                               framework: Mgmt framework:        Act Leg
                                           Act Leg             Mgmt Act Leg Imprv DM
                                           Imprv DM            Imprv DM      Capacity: Expert
                                           Capacity: State     Capacity:     Committee on
                                           wide Emergency      State wide    statewide comm
                                           com network         Emergency     was constituted
                                                               comm network
Date achieved                              10/31/2005          10/31/2008    03/31/2009
Comments       All original and revised targets achieved except some procurement of equipment,
(incl. %       and works for Regional ERCs and implementation of capacity building in
achievement)   certain smaller ULBs. These are in progress at closure, financed by GoG


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of reconstructed houses insured - 100%
                                                               100 % of the
                                           100 % of the        houses        100 % of the houses
Value                                      houses              reconstructed reconstructed with
(quantitative                              reconstructed with with financial financial assistance
or Qualitative)                            financial           assistance
                                           assistance from thefrom the       from the Project are

                                           Project are insured Project are   insured

                                                               insured
Date achieved                              10/31/2005          10/31/2008    03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %       All original targets fully achieved
achievement)




                                                iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived                DO                       IP                Disbursements
                                                                           (USD millions)
   1   06/24/2002           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      0.00
   2   12/30/2002           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    66.25
   3   06/27/2003           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    88.22
   4   11/26/2003           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   137.31
   5   06/25/2004           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   170.99
   6   12/24/2004           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   189.42
   7   06/23/2005           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            235.48
   8   12/30/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   275.59
   9   06/28/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   289.06
  10   12/28/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   299.91
  11   06/29/2007       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            306.90
  12   12/17/2007       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            313.36
  13   06/27/2008       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            325.46
  14   10/31/2008       Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                   330.94



H. Restructuring (if any)

                               ISR Ratings at    Amount

 Restructuring       Board     Restructuring Disbursed at      Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)         Approved                   Restructuring
                 PDO Change                                         Key Changes Made
                                 DO       IP     in USD
                                                 millions
   12/23/2004           Y          S       S       189.42
                                                             Expand support for disaster
                                                             management activities, enhance

   02/29/2008                    MS       MS       318.25    the emergency response
                                                             capacity statewide and redefine
                                                             the dam safety and irrigation
                                                             component



If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                    Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                            Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                       Satisfactory




                                               v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Devastating Earthquake: On January 26, 2001 Gujarat experienced a devastating
earthquake. At the end of two minutes, 13,000 people were dead and 167,000 were
injured. The scale of physical destruction was also immense: 1.2 million homes, 2,000
health facilities, 12,000 schools, hundreds of public and other buildings (including
thousands of records), dams, water supply systems, roads, power and telecommunications
systems, factories, cottage industries and farms were all destroyed or damaged,
effectively crippling the state's social, public, and municipal services as well as its
economy. The earthquake affected 12 districts1 but Kutchh, one of the poorest districts in
the state, was most seriously affected with an average of 70% of all buildings destroyed.
The earthquake followed two other natural disasters, from which the disaster- prone state
was still recovering: a cyclone in 1998 and the start of a drought in 1999.

The Government of Gujarat and the Donors response: The immensity of destruction
drove an intense response. The Government of Gujarat (GoG) acted swiftly to move
beyond relief towards reconstruction. Recognizing the need for co-ordination of
Government, donor agencies, and NGOs, the GoG formed the Gujarat State Disaster
Management Authority (GSDMA) in February 2001. In parallel, the GoG undertook a
damage assessment and then invited the World Bank, Asian Development Bank (ADB),
the Government of the Netherlands, and the United States Agency for International
Development to review its findings. The assessment estimated sectoral asset losses at
US$2.1 billion for the same-standard replacement costs (including household assets) and
US$1.8 billion in improved-standard replacement costs (but excluding household assets).

The Response Strategy: The GoG, with the assistance of the World Bank and ADB,
subsequently developed an innovative strategy for rebuilding damaged infrastructure and
services, supporting the sustained livelihoods of very vulnerable households and building
built disaster management capacity. The strategy called for a phased implementation: (i)
the Short Term Phase supported priority areas to address basic human needs and begin
reconstruction. (ii) the Medium Term Phase continued and completed the reconstruction
and recovery efforts, but also initiated a medium-term emergency response management
program; and (iii) the Long Term Phase aimed at strengthening the capacity of GSDMA
for reducing and managing natural hazards, and piloted implementation of risk
management transfer mechanisms. The GoG subsequently developed a Gujarat
Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction Program, covering all sectors that were damaged
by the earthquake, with different sectors financed by different donors2, The program also
addressed medium and long-term goals i.e emergency response and risk mitigation.

The Bank Support: Consistent with this approach, the Bank assisted GoG in developing
and financing Phase 1 of the Program through reallocating credit proceeds from several
other ongoing Bank financed projects (US$ 261.6 M, approved in March 2001). Phase 1


1Kutchh, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Surendranagar, Ahmadabad, Patan, Banaskantha, Porbandar, Bhavnagar, Surat, Amreli,
Junagadh
2
 Mainly World Bank, ADB, Government of Netherlands and European Union

                                                     1

of the Program supported immediate reconstruction of housing, health, education, dams
and irrigation, roads and bridges, public buildings and community participation support.
The Bank followed by approving the GEERP (Cr 3637) in May 2002, to reinforce the
Phase 1 interventions and to assist the GoG in implementing its medium-term strategy.

Rationale for Bank Assistance: The CAS for India (June 2001) complemented the
strategic objectives of India's Ninth Plan and focused on strengthening the enabling
environment for development, sustainable growth and support to critical interventions to
benefit the poor. The project contributed to the latter two goals, as natural disasters affect
growth and inordinately affect the poor, who lack the capital for quick recovery.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objective of the project is to assist Gujarat in carrying out the second phase of a
program of rehabilitation and reconstruction in the areas affected by the Gujarat
earthquake of 26 January, 2001, including restoration of housing and public buildings,
restoration of basic infrastructure in the roads and irrigation sectors, and development of
an institutional framework to allow better disaster mitigation and risk management for
future natural disasters3.

The key indicators of achievement of the development objectives are the following:

(a) Housing: (i) Number of damaged/destroyed houses rehabilitated/repaired by owners;
     (ii) Number of engineers/masons trained in hazard resistant construction;
(b) Public Infrastructure reconstruction: (i) Number of affected dams strengthened to
     hazard resistant standards in Kutchh and Saurashtra regions; (ii) Number of Public
     buildings repaired, rehabilitated, or reconstructed to ensure smooth public
     administration; (iii) Number of critical undamaged public buildings in seismic Zones
     IV and V retrofitted to protect against future disasters; (iv) Number of new buildings
     to strengthen disaster management capacity and; (v) length in km of earthquake
     affected state road network improved along with structures for ensuring connectivity;
(c) Community Participation: (i) Number of self help groups constituted in villages, and
     (ii) number of gram sabhas conducted to reduce vulnerability of communities against
     future emergencies and their capacity building through stakeholder participation;
(d) Disaster Management Capacity Building: to enhance state's disaster management
     capacity through : (i) setting up of two regulatory and research institutions, (ii)
     preparing state level disaster management plans, (iii) setting up and making
     functional statewide emergency communication network, and (iv) setting up and
     making functional statewide control rooms.



1.3 Revised Approved PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification



3
  The PDO in the original DCA differs from that of the Technical Annex (TA). The original PDO in the TA read as
`The original objectives of the project were to: (a) promote sustainable recovery in the disaster-affected areas, and (b)
lay the foundations for sustainable disaster management capacity in Gujarat. The project is evaluated against the PDO
of the DCA as the latter is the legally binding document.

                                                            2

In December 2004, the PDO was revised through a first adaptive restructuring as follows:
(a) to assist the borrower (GoI) in eradicating poliomyelitis; and (b) same as the original
PDO above. The PDO (a) was added to assist GoI to part finance "Polio Eradication"
under the Immunization Strengthening Project (Cr. 3340 IN, closed on 12/31/2005)
implemented by the Government of India and Credit amount of US$ 20 M equivalent was
reallocated from the project's potential savings to this new component. All activities
related to polio eradication were supervised and monitored under that project.

In February 2008, during a second restructuring, the PDOs and the key indicators
remained unchanged. However, the team revised the output targets to reflect reduced or
increased demands under specific components. This opportunistic restructuring built on
existing knowledge to better achieve the project's PDO, especially as it related to the
development of an institutional framework and vulnerability reduction. (See Section 1.6)

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project's direct beneficiaries include: (i) home owners whose homes were destroyed
by the earthquake; (ii) farmers and other users of the dams and irrigation infrastructure;
(iii) road users; (iv) communities who improved their disaster preparedness; (v) the
public administrative services which utilized affected public buildings; and (vi) residents
of Gujarat who benefit from an improved state disaster management capacity. Under the
2004 restructuring, the beneficiary list expanded to include the poor, women and children
who are primarily affected by polio4.

1.5 Original Components

The original five components included: A. Repairs and Reconstruction of Permanent
housing; B. Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure; C. Community Participation; D.
Disaster Management; and E. Project Management.

Component A: Repairs and reconstruction of permanent housing (Costs at
Appraisal/Actual US$ 197.2 M/ US$ 132 M): This component financed the
implementation of owner driven housing construction, initiated under Phase 1, for 75,000
partially damaged and 135,000 fully damaged houses with associated capacity building
support and training of masons and engineers.

Component B: Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure (Costs at Appraisal/Actual US$
236.9 M US$ 245 M): This component included financing of:
·Public Buildings
 o Repair and Reconstruction of 1,200 residential and non-residential buildings in
      several government departments.
 o Retrofitting of 500 undamaged critical public buildings located in highly vulnerable
      seismic zones IV and V.




4Note that the polio project was not restricted to implementation in Gujarat, but was country-wide

                                                      3

   o Three new buildings5 for GSDMA, and for the newly conceptualized Gujarat
        Institute of Disaster Management (GIDM) and the Institute of Seismological
        Research (ISR).
·Dams & Irrigation: Repairs to 222 dams and irrigation infrastructure in Kutch and
 Saurashtra and technical assistance in carrying out the repairs.
·Roads & Bridges : Rehabilitation /strengthening of 700 km of state roads and associated
 technical assistance

  Component C: Community Participation (Costs at Appraisal/Actual US$ 12.5 M/ US$ 4
  M): This component included information and communication activities, establishment
  of village level institutions, strengthening local governments, gender sensitization and
  community based disaster awareness and preparedness programs.

  Component D: Disaster Management (Costs at Appraisal/Actual US$ 51.1 M/ US$
  73.5M): This component supported Gujarat in achieving its long term goals of building
  institutions to better manage disasters. It built on the recommendations on the (then)
  Draft Disaster Management Policy and the Disaster Management Bill (enacted into law in
  2003). The component included:
  ·Emergency Management Activities including (i) feasibility studies related to the setting
   up of an emergency response system; (ii) institutional consolidation including an
   institutional capacity assessment and operationalizing an emergency management
   system and (iii) setting up of an emergency response system
  ·Hazard Mitigation and Risk Transfer Activities such as studies on digital hazard maps,
   inventories of hazardous buildings, regulatory studies on building codes, procedures for
   community based disaster management planning etc.
  ·Development of Disaster Management Institutions: Strengthening the GSDMA and
   establishing the GIDM and the ISR.

  Component E: Project Management (Costs at Appraisal/Actual US$ 6.0 M/ US$ 6.0 M)
  included GSDMA incremental operating costs for project implementation.

  1.6 Revised Components

  In the first restructuring, a new component for Polio eradication was added to partly
  finance a GoI implemented Polio Immunization Project. The second restructuring
  enhanced/reduced the output targets as follows:

  (i) Component A: Reduced number of owner driven houses that the Credit will finance
  from 135,000 reconstructed houses to 125,000 and from 75,000 rehabilitated houses to
  42,000. This reflected reduced overall demand.
  (ii) Component B: Expanded Dam Safety component to mitigate risk by strengthening 4
  vulnerable (but undamaged) dams in earthquake sensitive area. Road network
  improvement expanded from 700 km to 800 km.
  (iii) Component D: (i) Expanded Hazard Risk Mitigation Activities from the initial 12
  earthquake affected districts to all 25 districts in Gujarat, and (ii) Enhanced Emergency


  5The 3 institutions were formed after the earthquake to build long-term disaster management capacity.

                                                      4

Response Capacity to include the fire and rescue services of municipalities and the
ambulance services of hospitals -statewide for first response.

1.7 Other significant changes

(a) Project closing date extended three times (2 years, 4 months and 8 months; Total 3
years). An initial extension until October 31, 2007 was required due to the enormity of
the implementation challenges (mainly in the Dams and Irrigation component,
reconstruction of urban housing and in retrofitting of public buildings). The original
unrealistic 3-year implementation period was a contributory factor to the required
extension. The second extension (February 28, 2008) and third extension (October, 31
2008) resulted from implementation delays following force majeure (i.e. severe floods in
2005 and 2006) and the third extension allowed the IDA to assess if a GoG proposal to
expand the disaster management component could be adequately implemented.

(b) Cancellations: Cancellation of SDR 76.16 M Credit occurred in two installments,
first in June 2005 to reallocate funds to the Emergency Tsunami Reconstruction project,
and the second in January 2007 because of the potential savings arising out of reduced
financing required for housing component and favorable SDR- USD- INR exchange
rates. At Project Closing, further SDR 49.02 M Credit remains unutilized.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background Analysis, Preparation and Design:

Project Objectives and Design: The Development Objectives and the GoG's medium
term reconstruction strategy were well aligned. Both focused on immediate
reconstruction and the initiation of institutional development for disaster management
(See Section 1). The projects joint focus (reconstruction and disaster management i.e.
hardware and software) distinguishes it from many other post-disaster recovery projects
that usually emphasize only reconstruction without disaster risk mitigation. The Bank's
focus on the seemingly disparate components (as far ranging as housing, dams, roads and
disaster management) responded to requests by the GoG and also took into account other
available financing provided by additional donors.

Lessons Incorporated: The project's design took lessons from the implementation of
the Phase 1 Program, as well as other Bank assisted Emergency Operations in India. The
project incorporated a high-powered coordinating authority, GSDMA, in response to
earlier project's findings that implementation performance is directly related to
government capacity to co-ordinate multi-sector operations and processes6. This was
particularly important in the GEERP, which was implemented by 12 different agencies7

6
 This was a lesson of previous Bank assisted projects including the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency
Reconstruction Project, the Maharashtra Emergency Earthquake Rehabilitation Project and the Andhra Pradesh Hazard
Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery project.
7Director Primary Education Program, Director Technical Education, State Roads and Building Department, Panchayat
Roads and Building Department, Capital Projects Roads and Building Department, Home Department, Ahmadabad

                                                          5

and 200,000 homeowners. At a technical level, third party quality audits for construction
were included in the project design, learning from the experience of the Phase 1 Program.
Finally, the project design incorporated a coherent well-targeted information
dissemination campaign. This facilitated effective project implementation.

The Project design was also extremely innovative. Some examples include: (i)
leveraging the disaster and the reconstruction needs to introduce a medium and long-term
disaster risk mitigation strategy (including the formation of institutions8 for disaster
management, the strengthening of dams (i.e. not only their immediate repair) to seismic
resistant standards); (ii) introducing a home-owner approach to construction, rather than a
contractor based approach, and formulating a complex cash-grant system to support the
approach; (iii) supporting joint home ownership between the husband and wife; and (iv)
including community participation and community based disaster management programs
into the overall disaster risk management strategy.

2.2 Implementation

Institutional Readiness: The GSDMA had been formed, staffed and allocated financial
resources and had already implemented the Phase1 Program by the start of the project. A
Gujarat Disaster Management Bill, which would provide the legal authority for a
reconstituted GSDMA and its disaster risk mitigation functions, had been drafted,
followed by the promulgation of the Act in 2003.

Implementation Delays: As with many emergency projects, not all components or
activities (the dams' sub-component and the disaster management component, urban
housing and retrofitting of public building activities in particular) were adequately
prepared at the time of appraisal. It was understood that these would be prepared during
the project's first year. These factors were compounded by technical issues (particularly
in the dams sub-component), delays in urban planning (financed by another donor),
capacity constraints of line departments (especially in the Dams Sub-Component)
GSDMA in managing Bank Procurement.

The multiplicity of reasons for delay affected each component differently:
(i)      the scale of the housing reconstruction program drove a tight operational plan.
         Consequently, late starters ­ mainly in urban housing - (or beneficiaries who
         experienced problems `out of the ordinary') were severely handicapped in
         completing their homes within the required period and budget. Furthermore, there
         was an extensive delay in the completion of urban plans for 4 towns, which,
         concomitantly, delayed the reconstruction of housing in the affected towns;
(ii)     the scope of the technical requirements in constructing dams (which included
         required retroactive engineering designs, approvals from the DSRP and lengthy
         approval processes) worked against the completion of works in three years9. This
         was compounded by weak contractor capacity;


Municipal Corporation, Jamnagar Municipal Corporation, Special Project Roads and Building Department, Water
Resources Department, GSDMA.
8Including the GIDM, the ISR, the GSDMA, the ERCs, the EOCs
920 large dams required additional time for implementation due to the required safety review process.

                                                       6

(iii)     the innovativeness of the Disaster Management Program i.e. its design in the
          absence of any experience both in the state and in India - also militated against
          timely completion of the component.

In retrospect, the project's delivery was driven by the immensity of need (as is often the
case in emergency projects), based on a rationale that beginning reconstruction on the
prepared components/subcomponents (Housing, Public Buildings, Roads, Community
Participation) was preferable to simultaneous implementation of, particularly the dams
sub-component and the disaster management components, where preparation was yet to
be completed. Furthermore, the limited time stipulations of OP 8.5, rather than a realistic
assessment of the time required for project implementation, drove the three-year project.

Participatory Processes: The participatory ethos that permeated the program (and also
the project) began immediately after the earthquake. The GoG convened a Statutory
Advisory Committee (SAC), comprising of sector specialists, to assist with strategy and
policy. It also began to collaborate with a network of NGOs, particularly in Kutchh. It
continued throughout the program and the project through (i) incorporating participatory
process in the housing construction process; (ii) expanding the disaster risk management
framework to communities. An information and education framework complemented
this. The GSDMA and the GoG monitored the effectiveness of participatory processes
through a continuous social impact assessment. A Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
Study (BME) measured the program's impact (See section 3).

Bank Supervision and Actions Taken: Initial Bank supervision largely reflected the
projects' emergency nature. Consequently, it focused on preparation activities, the
resolution of social safeguards concerns and problem-solving in those components/sub-
components experiencing implementation delays (particularly housing)10. At the time of
the MTR, the team appeared confident that project would meet its October 2005 closing
date. However, the team soon recognized that several components would not be
concluded by the closing date and sought a two-year extension until October 31, 2007.

In October 2007, the GoG sought an extension, together with a project restructuring. The
extension was required due to force majeure (i.e. floods in 2005 and 2006) which had
forced the GSDMA to withdraw temporarily from GEERP to manage the post-flood
recovery. The team designed the two-stage extension to ensure that procurement and
implementation were proceeding as planned prior to undertaking project restructuring and
granting the third extension. The initial four-month extension also allowed the team to
evaluate if the expansion of the program to all districts (as requested by the GoG) and
procurement of equipment could be completed within the requested period.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


10(i) the delay in implementation of the dam's sub-component presents the contradiction between the need
for quick action versus quality control. The emphasis of the team/ GoG veered towards ensuring adequate
quality rather than meeting unrealistic timeline; (ii) in the Housing Component, although the majority of
housing construction was completed in the allotted time, `anomalies' in urban areas and late starters
required innovative solutions; (iii) Social safeguards, in response to findings of the CSIA consistently
clarified entitlement, focusing especially on Scheduled Caste families, and relocation concerns.

                                                        7

The program's impact (i.e. not only the Bank financed components) was monitored
through a Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation Framework. The hypothesis was that the
reconstruction program improved the quality of life of earthquake affected communities
beyond pre-earthquake levels. Indicators took into account (i) basic minimum service
levels suggested by the 9th five year plan; (ii) sectors where investments were substantial.

Sector specific outcomes and indicators were identified and appropriate tools for data
collection were designed including 3 surveys covering housing, education, women's
livelihoods (surveys 3 and 4), agriculture (survey 1), cottage and village industries
(survey 2), water supply, public buildings, roads and bridges, health and power.
Individual studies were also undertaken for dams and irrigation, capacity building and
disaster preparedness, community participation and trade and commerce. The findings of
the BME were part of a `feedback loop' that the GSDMA used to identify areas where
additional resources or remedies were required.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social Safeguards: Two social safeguard policies applied to the project: OD 4.30 on
Involuntary Resettlement (now O.P. 4.12) and OD 4.20 on Indigenous People (now O.P.
4.10). Compliance is rated as satisfactory. OP 4.12 applied to 'secondary' relocation
where persons were dislocated from (i) areas where the GoG located new housing
construction financed under the project; (ii) some town planning areas. It did not apply to
primary relocation i.e. where the earthquake had dislocated people.                      The extent of
project-affected persons was unknown at the project's start and the Bank requested the
Borrower to report instances of secondary relocation. Only one instance of secondary
relocation was identified (at the project's start) and a methodology and actions to address
the relocation based on consultations with the affected people was formulated.

OP 4.10. Tribal people affected by the earthquake received equitable benefits, since the
project provided benefits based on the damage assessments. Land alienation did not
affect tribal people and there is no evidence that the project affected tribal culture
negatively. Indeed, the livelihood interventions, communication campaigns and
community participation efforts were built on local cultures and networks.

Environment        Safeguards:          OP      4.01     on     Environmental      Assessment,      and
OPN11.03/OP4.11 on Cultural Resources were applicable and Borrower compliance has
been consistent with the requirements and is rated as satisfactory. Environmental
Management was systematically integrated into the project using an Environmental
Management Framework (EMF) approach11. All implementing agencies used activity
specific environmental mitigation checklists developed under the project. Environmental
Management Action Plans (EMAP) were prepared for new construction and/or
augmentation of infrastructure. All environmental management measures were
incorporated in the various contract documents - and contractor compliance was
monitored. Quarterly reporting by the GSDMA on the environmental safeguards

11Included screening criteria to determine if additional environmental work was required, standard
mitigation measures as part of design, use of standard codes and environmental management action plans

                                                      8

indicates that all implementing agencies followed environmental management guidance
of the EMF and EMAP.

Environmental concerns were proactively integrated into the project. Some examples
include (i) initial concerns on construction related impacts were immediately addressed
(notably by the R&BD, which also benefited from its engagement with the State
Highways Project); (ii) the GSDMA, initiated and financed several studies including a
flood vulnerability assessment, vulnerability due to climate change in 4 cities and seismic
microzonation of a proposed Special Investment Region in Ahmadabad district.

Financial Management and Disbursement is rated as satisfactory and the Borrower has
complied with all legal covenants. The financial management arrangements for the
project were satisfactory. Audit Reports were received as scheduled, disbursements have
also been timely and the finance unit of the GEERP has been effective in coordinating
and monitoring the projects financial management status. The submission of details of
expenditure incurred and possible recoveries for ineligible expenses claimed for the
construction of approximately 19 500 houses remains as an outstanding issue.

Procurement: Procurement under the project was generally satisfactory. However,
capacity building of the GSDMA to ensure efficient management of complex ICB
procurement processes and procedures could have improved procurement performance.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The three institutions whose formation was supported by the project (i.e. GSDMA,
GIDM and ISR) remain after the project closed, now supported financially by the GoG.
Furthermore, the NDMA is collaborating with the GSDMA in implementing the National
Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project currently under preparation for Bank financing. Finally,
the dams and roads financed by the project have been adequately operated and
maintained since their completion.

However, concerns include (i) potential risk that village level disaster preparedness may
not be sustained (i.e. no updating of disaster management plans, no continuation of gram
sabhas on DM preparedness); (ii) the implementation of the Operations Plan for the
Emergency Response Centers (which relies on the co-operation of several levels of
Government) will be challenging; and (iii) poor awareness on household insurance
negates long term risk mitigation goals.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives continue to be highly relevant to Gujarat, India and Bank's new
CAS. The GoI's 11th five-year plan, 2007-2012, incorporates the aim of consolidating
disaster preparedness, prevention and risk mitigation progress by integrating them into
the development process. GEERP piloted such integration. The current India CAS (2009-
2012) states that the WBG will assist in increasing the resilience of people and the


                                             9

economy to natural and man-made shocks. This articulates with the GEERP objective of
building resilience and reducing the vulnerability of communities to disasters through
risk mitigation and preparedness programs.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The two-part PDO was linked to the PDO Indicators as follows: PDO Indicator #1 related
to the rehabilitation of housing, public buildings, roads and dams. PDO Indicator #2
related to institutional development. An assessment of the outputs linked to each PDO
Indicator reveals a rating of `satisfactory' as the project met all identified targets.

Assessment of PDO Indicator #1: Rehabilitation and reconstruction program in the
earthquake affected areas including the restoration of houses, public buildings and basic
infrastructure in the roads and irrigation sector.

Restoration of Housing: The physical targets were met and exceeded. This reflects the
GoGs tremendous organizational capacity and motivation to deliver, given the immensity
of need and the complexity of the housing program12 (See Annex 2).                                           However,
completion rates and technical quality of construction remain as issues of concern.
Approximately 19, 500 beneficiaries who received an initial payment or the initial and
second installment did not seek / receive final payment and, in theory, did not complete
their homes. The GSDMA is currently reviewing each case and taking required action13.
These could include late starters in the program (about 7.5%) who experienced
difficulties in completing construction to an appropriate standard due to cost inflation of
construction materials and the demobilization of Government staff (who supplied
technical assistance) allocated to the program. However, this represents a small number
and percent of the total beneficiaries. More concerning, and a definite risk to
sustainability, is the finding by a post-facto technical audit that suggested that 7% of a
sample of houses did not conform to the earthquake resistant structural construction
standards. The GSDMA is currently reviewing these cases through a comparison with the
third party audit (undertaken during construction) and proposes to assist these
homeowners in ensuring their homes are retrofitted to seismic resistant standards.

Non-Physical aspects of the program demonstrated good performance. Efforts to address
transparency, participation and voice in housing reconstruction were sound and the
housing program did improve access to services, housing conditions and gender equity
for beneficiaries. However, the insurance program, although pioneering, reveals mixed
results for the long-term intention of transferring risk to the private sector.

Positive Impacts of the Homeowner driven approach:



12
   The program included designing mechanisms to ensure community based equitable allocation of grants, transparent
and actual financing flows to beneficiaries, monitoring housing construction progress against standards in order to
trigger financial flows, ensuring an adequate supply of materials, co-ordination of different levels of Government and
different departments particularly in urban areas
13 Note that the GSDMA have found that 478 houses have been completed. A further 7,500 houses are estimated to
qualify for the benefit (i.e. have been completed to seismic resistant standards. The recovery process had been initiated
where houses have not been completed to seismic resistant standards and thus far, US$ 1.1 m has been recovered.

                                                           10

·   Beneficiary Satisfaction: The project's owner driven housing approach empowered
    beneficiaries so that they `owned' the construction process. Satisfaction levels with
    this approach exceeded those associated with other approaches (See Annex 2).
·   Quick Completion: Lengthy procurement processes were avoided; thus ensuring rapid
    start ups. Also, because a homeowner (rather than a contractor) was undertaking
    construction, the incentive to rapidly complete the house was extremely strong.
·   Cost Savings: The approach ensured that all available financing was used towards
    construction, as there were no intermediary costs (i.e. NGO/contractor fees, profits)

Transparency and Voice: The publication of the beneficiary list (derived from the damage
assessment) at village level and on the GSDMA website, coupled with a grievance
redressal procedure to challenge the beneficiary allocations, strengthened the goals of
transparency, equity and voice. Transparency compliance was high ­ the BME reported
that 93% of sample villages did publish the beneficiary list. A two-tier grievance
redressal procedure (village and district), through which beneficiaries could complain
against their allocation, accommodated beneficiary voice. Approximately 40,000 claims
were received through this procedure with beneficiaries primarily protesting: (i) their
belief that they have not received the assistance that they were eligible for (15%); (ii)
others with similar damage have received more than they have (60%); and (iii)
beneficiaries unaware that they could receive assistance (25%).

Housing Insurance: The insurance aspects of the program ­ designed to mitigate long-
term risk - was pioneering. Payments for insurance premiums were automatically
deducted from the final housing installment. The details of the strengths and limitations
of the insurance program are in Annex 2. Limitations include poor awareness of the
program. Positive consequences include 44% of respondents were willing to buy
insurance even though only 18% had actually purchased voluntary insurance (See Annex
2 for details of strengths and limitations of the program)14.

Housing Conditions: The housing program has improved beneficiary access to services
and living conditions. The percentage of beneficiaries reporting a formal (pucca)
residence has increased, particularly amongst the poorest beneficiaries. Access to
sanitation and cooking facilities has also improved. However, actual access differs
amongst economic groups (particularly in their improved access to sanitation) with BPL,
SC, ST and OBC still lagging behind beneficiaries above the poverty line. (See Table and
further details in Annex 2)

Gender Equity: The opening of a Bank account (for transfer of the benefit) and the
registration of the house in the names of both the husband and wife was a tremendous
step for gender equality, although awareness of joint ownership is low (See section 3.5).

Public Buildings: The project met and exceeded the physical targets for the
reconstruction, repair and retrofitting of public buildings. However, the new building for




14
  GSDMA report on Capacity Building and Disaster Preparedness, July 2007. Pp 24-30

                                                    11

the GIDM was incomplete by the end of the project and there are concerns regarding the
operations and maintenance of the engineering schools financed by the project15.

Dams and Irrigation: The project achieved its monitorable indicator for this sub-
component and all targeted 225 dams (revised as part of the 2008 restructuring) were
strengthened including the 4 additional vulnerable dams (but not damaged)                                   in the
earthquake sensitive area. However, the dams and irrigation sub-component did delay
project implementation, as its progress lagged the planned program by several months.

Roads: The roads sub-component achieved and exceeded its revised target of 800 km of
roads and associated structures rehabilitated/maintained. The impact of the sub-
component on the end user appears positive. These include (i) 60 % of urban and 65% of
rural residents expresses satisfaction with connectivity to nearby locations; (ii) 62% of
rural respondents and 60% of urban respondents noted a decrease in travel times to
surrounding locations/villages; (iii) there is also an increased frequency of local travel
reported by 63% of rural and 60% of urban respondents.

PDO Indicator 2: Development of Institutional Framework to allow better disaster risk
mitigation and risk management for future natural disasters.

Most targets for this indicator, including the legislation of the Disaster Management Act
and the subsequent formation of the GSDMA, GIDM and ISR have been achieved.
Furthermore, 3-tier control rooms have been set-up and are operational at state, taluka
and district headquarter levels. Disaster management plans have been prepared for all
districts, and approximately 10,375 villages, 97 urban local bodies and 144 talukas in 14
vulnerable districts. Finally, GEERP positively impacted national and community level
disaster management.

An Innovator in India: Integrating Post Disaster Recovery and Risk Mitigation and
Initiating a Legal and Institutional Framework. The state (and the projects) disaster
management approach was innovative and reflects international best practice. GEERP
was the first project in India that incorporated a comprehensive mitigation and
community preparedness component into a post-disaster recovery and restructuring
program. The project has also significantly and positively affected the legal and
institutional framework for disaster management in Gujarat. The promulgation of the
Gujarat Disaster Management Act, which conferred powers on the GSDMA, was a
significant institutional achievement in itself. The project's continued support of the
GSDMA, the EOCs, the ERCs, the ISR, the GIDM, its capacity building initiatives at the
state, district, taluka and community level across all the disaster affected districts, its
community awareness programs and its support of improvement in scientific and
technical capacity, ensured an overall improvement in disaster management capacity.
This comprehensive project design was successfully implemented and, on completion of
remaining equipment procurement and sustainable operations of the new institutions,
may prove to be an international best practice for post-disaster long-term recovery and
building community resilience to future disasters.


15The final ICRR mission had found that Bhuj Engineering College lacks the finances for the adequate operations and
maintenance of the buildings and its grounds.

                                                      12

Impact on National Disaster Management: The Gujarat legislation was a precursor to
the National Disaster Management Act in 2005 which also allowed for the formation of
the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in 2006. The NDMA is engaged
in prioritizing and building capacity for risk mitigation programs across the country.

Impact on Community Awareness: The project significantly and positively influenced
disaster awareness at community level. For example, a survey reveals that 90% of
respondents now placed heavy items at low levels, and were aware of the need to move
away from tall buildings towards open spaces at the time of an earthquake (See Annex 2).

Concerns: First, some procurement of works and equipment is still outstanding. The
delivery of some emergency equipment for the ULB's is outstanding, although
procurement is underway. Construction is also underway (but not complete) for the
GIDM, 5 ERCs (4 have started, 1 is yet to begin), 4 (out of 25) district EOCs (21
complete, 3 underway and 1 not started). However, all outstanding procurement of goods
and works has been financed by the GoG and are scheduled for completion by the end of
2009. Second, GSDMA will need to ensure the sustainability of some aspects of the
program, particularly to ensure continued engagement and interest of local government
authorities at the district, taluka and sub-taluka level and with community members
trained through earlier CBDRM initiatives. Further, a draft Operations Plan outlining the
staffing, training, deployment, operation, and maintenance of emergency management
equipment for ERCs is available but its implementation needs to begin urgently.

3.3 Efficiency (Not required for emergency projects)

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The project is rated as satisfactory for the PDO.

The project did meet and exceed all targets relating to the reconstruction effort. Survey
findings reveal that quality of life has exceeded pre-earthquake levels (The baseline of 1
pre-earthquake dropped to 0.36 immediately after the earthquake and is now at 1.178)
(See Annex 2). Furthermore, beneficiaries have experienced improved access to formal
housing and sanitation. Residents have also benefited from decreased travel times and
increased access to surrounding locations. Finally, the improved disaster management
framework demonstrated its effectiveness in the states response to the 2006 floods. GoG
and GSDMA are proactively addressing potential sustainability issues referred to in
Section 3.2 above.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

(a) Empowerment of Women: The Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation Study confirmed
the program's positive impact on women. Of particular importance, women reported a
decreased workload, as they no longer had to constantly prepare `lipai' for mud houses.


                                              13

Women beneficiaries also reported (i) increased confidence, especially in voicing their
needs to community officers and government officials; (ii) improved aspirations for their
children (including girls). They attribute these changes to increased exposure to outsiders
especially during visits to the Bank. (Note that because women were joint account
holders, they were required to be present for every banking transaction).

(b) Development of Skills for Youth, and Subsequent Support to Livelihood: The
project's skills training program, aimed at the building construction industry, impacted
positively on youth who were the major participants in the program. This allowed for
their further employment as masons and builders within the reconstruction program.

(c) Creation of Awareness among School Children and Teachers: A very carefully
formulated and implemented pilot school safety program, which included school safety
assessments and plans and hazard response drills, was highly successful and the GoG
subsequently rolled out the program throughout the state.

 (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Dams and Irrigation: The projects engagement of two Dam Safety Review panels,
comprising highly experienced and reputed specialists in relevant disciplines (e.g.
hydrology, earthquake engineering, geology/geotechnical engineering, dam designs and
construction) drove an ethos of quality in the reconstruction process. This was enhanced
by the introduction of procedures for total quality management16 that are now
institutionalized within the GoG. The introduction of a methodology of reverse
engineering design in Gujarat, (since the original designs of many of the dams could not
be found) allowed for the re-skilling of engineers in Water Resources Department
(WRD).

Roads: The project benefitted from work already underway under the GSHP, financed by
the Bank. The capacity benefits in engineering design were adequately demonstrated -
consultants were appointed to design the original 800 km; but R&BD staff prepared
subsequent designs. In addition, R&BD's efficient project management demonstrated the
strengthening of its capacity in the fields of procurement, contract management, quality
assurance, environmental management, and in managing consultants.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Support to the banking sector: The project's cash flow mechanism, which was
premised on the opening of a beneficiary bank account, boosted the customer base of
local banks; thus supporting their continued development;

(b) Support to the insurance sector: The housing insurance program improved the
customer base of the insurance industry.


16
  Including quality assurance methodologies and checklists, including regular materials testing. Testing was
strengthened by procurement and use of three mobile testing laboratories. Technical Assistance and Quality Assurance
(TA&QA) consultants were engaged to ensure third party quality audit and technical support during implementation,
and for the preparation of completion plans and reports.

                                                         14

3.6 Findings of Beneficiary Survey/Stakeholder Workshops Not required

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to Development Outcome is rated as Modest.               The GoG continues to
demonstrate financial and institutional commitment to the project objectives, particularly
as they relate to the goal of the development of a disaster risk mitigation system. The
three institutions, whose formation was precipitated by the earthquake, identified as key
institutions for sustainable disaster management, and subsequently supported by the
project (i.e. GSDMA, GIDM and ISR), remain after the projects' close, supported
financially by the GoG. The GSDMA will also act as the counterpart to the National
Cyclone Mitigation Project, which is under preparation for financing by the World Bank.
The GoG further demonstrated its commitment to the projects outcomes through
continued financial support (expenditure since project closing is over US$ 2m).

In addition, GoG and GSDMA are proactivly addressing remaining potential risk factors
to the development outcome. These include:
o Housing Insurance: The demonstrated lack of awareness of beneficiaries towards the
    project financed insurance program makes it uncertain that beneficiaries will continue
    payments after the project financed 10-year period. This could negate the long-term
    goal of transferring risk from individual homeowners to the insurance private sector.
o The challenges to implementing the ERC Operations Plan (which relies on
    intergovernmental co-operation) presents a risk for their effective functioning
o Regular monitoring and refresher trainings by the GSDMA are required to effectively
    sustain community disaster management activities.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

The Bank's performance during preparation is rated moderately satisfactory. Preparation
began immediately after approval of the Phase 1 Program in March 2001 and was
speedily completed by February 2002. The project design appropriately drew from the
Bank's extensive experience in disaster related projects and from the lessons of the
ongoing Phase 1 Program (refer to section 2.1). Housing reconstruction, roads and
community participation was already under implementation, supported by the Phase 1
Program. In response to the GoGs financial challenge, the project was approved with the
understanding that some of the components (dam strengthening and DM capacity
building) would be further prepared during the first year.

The project design was complex, reflecting the demands of the reconstruction effort, the
numerous sectors addressed and the resultant multiplicity of implementing agencies.
Several risk mitigation measures addressed this complexity including (i) provision of
extensive external consultant support; (ii) capacity building programs at community level



                                             15

and for the advanced technical design inputs; (iii) the continued support of GSDMA to
ensure coordination; (iv) development of quality audits for technical/ fiduciary aspects.

The design was consistent with the fiduciary and safeguard policies. However, risks were
not fully identified at entry and the short implementation period proved inadequate.

(b) Quality of Supervision

The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank maintained
continuity through the retention of the same experienced team leader and social
development specialist throughout the supervision period. Supervision teams were
consistently substantial and all fourteen supervision missions (approximately two per
year) were well documented. Field visits were numerous and, in addition to the
interaction with GoG's high-level relevant officials and the GSDMA, and desk reviews
of reports, the team consciously sought feedback from affected households. Continuous
social assessment, consultations with the other donors and NGOs and regular benefit
monitoring studies were useful in addressing implementation concerns.

An examination of supervision aide memoirs and Implementation Status Reports (ISR)
reveals the team's attention to PDOs, project implementation progress and monitoring of
legal covenants and agreed actions and issues, particularly fiduciary and safeguards
issues. ISR ratings appear realistic and the team downgraded the DO and IP ratings as
required (mainly due to implementation delays in the Dams and DM component). In
addition to reallocations/ cancellations that were effected to support the other projects,
the team monitored the utilization of Credit and sought further cancellations when
potential savings became clear. Once the emergency reconstruction work neared
completion, the Bank encouraged the GoG to expand the DM capacity-building
component to the whole state, demonstrating the Team's foresight in building capacity to
better mitigate any future disasters.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Consequently, the overall rating for Bank's performance has been rated satisfactory.




5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Borrower (GoG) performance is rated as satisfactory. GoG maintained its commitment
to the project objectives throughout the implementation. It ensured early passage of the
Gujarat Disaster Management Act, set up the GSDMA during Phase 1 and fully staffed
and equipped it during the early period of implementation. The GSDMA was largely
autonomous and approved most scheme and procurement decisions. The GoG
consistently provided project funds and key project covenants were always in
compliance.


                                              16

Borrower's performance flagged slightly after the first three years, subsequent to the
conclusion of the majority of the emergency reconstruction. This delayed the
implementation of the dams and irrigation sub-component and the procurement of some
equipment. The hiring of key senior staff in GSDMA was not always timely and this
affected the completion of the DM component. However, the GoG always provided
adequate financial resources to GSDMA.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Performance of GSDMA and its partner implementing agencies is rated as satisfactory.
The GSDMA provided sound leadership and coordination of numerous implementing
agencies (with varied implementation capacity), NGOs and donors. The GSDMA also led
implementation of the housing, community participation and disaster management
capacity building components and these were satisfactorily implemented. The agency
received many international awards in recognition of the exemplary work undertaken as
part of the project. However, performance in the procurement of equipment could have
been better. The performance of the other line local departments and Urban and Rural
local bodies was also generally satisfactory and implementation delays and operational
issues were resolved. The Dams and Irrigation component experienced a 3-year delay but
final implementation was satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Therefore, overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The integration of long- term goals (e.g. disaster management capacity building, drafting
of seismic resistance planning standards, ensuring quality control in dams
reconstruction) into a disaster reconstruction project is effective, but requires a longer
(and more realistic) implementation period. (This was also a finding of the Andhra
Pradesh Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project). The scale of
operations and the need to nurture and restore confidence of the affected population,
while ensuring cost effectiveness, is a time consuming activity. Faced with the competing
demands of reconstruction versus long-term risk mitigation, implementing agencies focus
(rightly) on reconstruction, further delaying the implementation of risk mitigation
programs. Consequently, project design should allow for a longer period of
implementation (initially focusing on reconstruction, followed by disaster risk
mitigation). The current Bank OP 8.0 allows for such flexible design.

Homeowner driven approach is popular and effective in reconstruction; but assumes a
pace of implementation that can exclude some beneficiaries. The high levels of
satisfaction amongst beneficiaries' points to the perceived and actual benefits of the
homeowner driven program. However, its assumption that all homeowners can build to
target within a particular period excludes beneficiaries who were unable to maintain the
programs deadlines. These beneficiaries then face increased construction costs (due to


                                             17

inflation) and this affects completion rates.             Critical improvements to the housing
program would include facilitating co-financing opportunities to mitigate against an
increase in the cost of construction, partnerships with humanitarian organizations to
support vulnerable families, timely intervention for `non starters'.

Transparency and equity interventions work best when incorporated into a program,
rather than as stand-alone activities. The repair and reconstruction of over 1,14 million17
houses with minimal grievances/allegations of corruption reflects a successful
incorporation of transparency and voice. In particular, (i) the damage assessment, which
is a technical exercise, benefits from community participation to ensure transparency and
social acceptance; (ii) an effective Grievance Redressal Mechanism complements the
community assisted damage assessment by allowing community `voice'. Tthe
introduction of the `lokpal' that acted as an independent judicial ombudsman/legal
appellate greatly improved the projects' two-tier grievance redressal mechanism system.

Fund disbursement linked to construction progress (for individual construction)
facilitates effective use of funds: In the absence of this link, there is a risk that
beneficiaries may use funds for purposes other than the intended use.

A legal and institutional framework is key to integrated disaster management. The GoG's
2003 promulgation of the Gujarat Disaster Management Act, provided for the formation
and mandate of the GSDMA. The formation of the GSDMA allowed for quick policy
decisions during project implementation, for the co-ordination of a multitude of line
departments (without questions of authority) and for the integration of longer-term
disaster management into the disaster reconstruction. In the absence of the Act and the
GSDMA integrated disaster management would not have been possible.

Post-disaster recovery and reconstruction periods can provide opportunities for disaster
risk mitigation and capacity building: This allows a disaster risk mitigation program to
capitalize on the institutional resources and organization required in reconstruction (e.g.
IEC activities, the village level self-help groups, gram sabhas etc.).

Immediate reconstruction needs often contradicts with long-term sustainability.
Disasters require quick reconstruction to meet the needs of affected people. This can
contradict with long-term sustainability. For example: (i) the required revision of
planning and building codes to ensure earthquake resistant construction delayed the start
of housing reconstruction in urban areas; (ii) the compliance rate of construction
improved over time as masons, engineers and technical officers were trained and became
familiar with the program requirements. However, the urgency of construction precluded
against undertaking training prior to construction.

Projects Impact on Bank-Wide Operations: The projects approach to the reconstruction
of housing (the homeowner based approach, the cash grant transfer process, the damage
assessment, the grievance redressal process, the third part audits) are now standard across
South Asia disaster management housing reconstruction programs and has influenced
housing reconstruction in Aceh, Indonesia. Lessons learnt from the project (including

17Includes repair and reconstruction. Reconstruction alone was approximately 200 000 houses.

                                                   18

closely linking fund disbursement to construction progress, a more than two tier
grievance redressal process etc) have been integrated into those projects.

Size of Disaster Management Projects: After two rounds of cancellation ($20 M for Polio
and SDR 76 million for Tsunami), the project is still left with a saving of SDR 49 M.
This has also occurred in a subsequent Bank Financed DM project in India. It may be
advisable to prepare a smaller project and seek additional financing if required.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower received a draft ICR. Their comments clarified concerns identified in that
document on the projects extension and the insurance aspects of the housing program.
The draft ICR was revised accordingly. The Borrower disagreed with the identified
challenges of sustaining community disaster management and implementing the
Operations Plan for the ERCs. However, the ICR Team felt that this remains a challenge
that requires the continued intervention of the GSDMA for sustained implementation.
Finally, the Borrower argued for a project performance rating of Highly Satisfactory.

The Borrowers Evaluation is provided as Annex 7. The finding largely concur those of
the ICR. However, the evaluation identifies the Bank's management of procurement as
onerous. The evaluation also refers to a `ban' on the shopping method of procurement.
However, the team does not recall this `ban'. In some instances, the Bank objected to the
`splitting' of packages.




                                            19

                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

 (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                       millions) *
A. REPAIR AND
RECONSTRUCTION OF                       197.2             132.00             67%
PERMANENT HOUSING
B. RECONSTRUCTION OF
                                        236.9             245.00           103.4%
PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE
C. COMMUNITY
                                         12.5               4.00             32%
PARTICIPATION
D. DISASTER MANAGEMENT                   51.1              73.50            144%
E. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                     6.0               6.00            100 %
F. POLIO ERADICATION
                                                           20.00             NA
ACTIVITIES


            Total Baseline Cost         503.7             480.5              95%

Physical Contingencies
                                         42.2                0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies
                                         39.8                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs        503.7**           480.5
Project Preparation Fund                  0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00               0.00            .00
     Total Financing Required             0.00



 *Inclusive of contingencies as per Final ISR dated 10/31/2008
 ** Since contingencies have been distributed amongst components A to F above, these
 are not added again.

(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of Co   Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                      financing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)     millions)
Borrower                                            60.90         132.26       217 %
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                     0.00          0.00         .00
and Development
International Development
                                                    442.80        348.24      78.6 %
Association (IDA)




                                            20

21

                        Annex 2: Outputs and Outcomes by Component

Output from                                       Revised Output
                     Original Output                                           Status of Indicator
each                                              Indicators
                     Indicators (May 2002)                                     as on September 30, 2008
component                                         (February 2008)
HOUSING

Owner driven         135,000 houses               About 125,000 houses         Total of 125,781 houses
reconstruction,      reconstructed and            reconstructed to             reconstructed, (in addition to
repair and           75,000 houses repaired       earthquake resistant         16,529 under phase I) and
strengthening        and strengthened.            standards and about          41,751 houses repaired
of                                                42,000 houses repaired
destroyed/dama                                    and strengthened.
ged housing.         1,000 engineers and                                       678 engineers, 3,832 masons
                     5,000 masons trained in      1,000 engineers and          trained in hazard resistant
                     hazard resistant             5,000 masons trained in      construction. 100 Municipal
                     construction.                hazard resistant             Engineers trained in reviewing
                                                  construction.                designs, 248 certified through
                                                                               Mason's Certification
                                                                               Program18
PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE RECONSTRUCTION

                     37 dams in Saurashtra        221 earthquake-affected      225 affected dams (185 in
Dam Safety &         and 185 dams in Kutch        dams (185 in Kutch and       Kutch and 35 in Saurashtra)
Irrigation           strengthened to hazard       36 in Saurashtra)            completed.
Rehabilitation       resistant standards.         strengthened to hazard
of dams to                                        resistant standards.
hazard resistant
standards                                         4 earthquake vulnerable      4 dams completed.
                                                  dams in Saurashtra
                                                  strengthened to hazard
                                                  resistant standards.
                     At least 1,200 public        At least 2,000 buildings     3,701 buildings reconstructed
Public               buildings repaired and       reconstructed and 200        and 232 damaged buildings
Buildings            strengthened to hazard       damaged buildings            were repaired and strengthened
Repairs,             resistant standard.          repaired and strengthened    to hazard resistant standard. .
Rehabilitation,                                   to hazard resistant
reconstruction                                    standard.
of public
buildings to
ensure smooth
public admin.




18Since the start of reconstruction 6,200 engineers & 29,000 masons trained in multi-hazard construction



                                                     22

Output from                              Revised Output
                 Original Output                                    Status of Indicator
each                                     Indicators
                 Indicators (May 2002)                              as on September 30, 2008
component                                (February 2008)
Retrofitting of  At least 500 buildings  At least 2,000 buildings   Retrofitting of 2,848 buildings
critical         retrofitted to hazard   retrofitted to hazard      completed.
undamaged        resistant standards.    resistant standards.
public
buildings in
Zones IV & V
to protect
against future
disasters.
Setting up of    New office buildings    New campus constructed     ISR: Construction of campus
new buildings    constructed for Gujarat for Gujarat Institute of   completed and is functioning
to strengthen    Institute of Disaster   Disaster management        from the new campus.
disaster         management, Gujarat     (GIDM), and Institute of
management       State Disaster          Seismological Research     GIDM: is established, but
capacities.      Management Authority    (ISR).                     construction of its campus is in
                 and Institute of                                   progress. Completion is
                 Seismological                                      expected in Dec-09.
                 Research.


Roads and        Around 700 km of        Around 800 km of roads     Road works: Strengthening
Bridges          roads and associated    and associated structures  works for 870 km of roads and
Improvement      structures              rehabilitated/maintained.  101 bridges repaired and 28
of earthquake    rehabilitated/maintaine                            bridges were reconstructed.
affected state   d.
road network,
along with
associated
structures for
ensuring
connectivity.
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION

Reduction of     At least 500 self-help  Disaster Management        Disaster Management
vulnerability of groups constituted in   Committees (a self-help    Committees formed in 10,829
communities      villages.               group) formed in           villages in 14 disaster prone
against future                           earthquake affected        districts. Members of the
emergencies                              villages and members are   DMCs have been trained in
and capacity                             trained in various aspects various aspects of disaster
buildings of                             of disaster management     management including response
communities                              including response like    like first aid, search and rescue.
for disaster                             first aid, search and
management                               rescue.
through
stakeholder                              Disaster Management is     Gram Sabhas conducted two
participation.   At least 1,000 Gram
                                         included as a mandatory    times in a year in all 18,000
                 Sabhas conducted.
                                         subject in the agenda of   villages of the State. Disaster
                                         all Gram Sabhas            Management is a mandatory
                                                                    subject in the agenda of Gram


                                            23

Output from                             Revised Output
                Original Output                                     Status of Indicator
each                                    Indicators
                Indicators (May 2002)                               as on September 30, 2008
component                               (February 2008)
                                                                    Sabhas.
                                        Community based             Community based projects
                At least 50 self­help   projects, e.g. retrofitting initiated, for example,
                community based         and reconstruction of       retrofitting and reconstruction
                hazard reduction        earthquake resistant        of earthquake resistant house,
                projects initiated.     house, masons training,     masons training, village
                                        village development         development plans.
                                        plans initiated.
DISASTER MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING

Enhanced        Gujarat Disaster        Gujarat Disaster            Bill was passed in the
disaster        Management Act          Management Act              Legislative assembly on March
management      legislated.             legislated                  28, 2003, and made effective on
through setting                                                     May 13, 2003.
up of
regulatory and  Gujarat Institute of    Gujarat Institute of        GIDM and ISR have been set-
institutional   Disaster Management     Disaster Management         up and functioning.
framework       (GIDM) and Institute of (GIDM) and Institute of
                Seismological Research  Seismological Research
                (ISR) set up.           (ISR) set up.

Enhanced        Process for Taluka and  Process for Taluka and      A community based process for
disaster        community level         community level disaster    disaster management planning
management      disaster management     management planning         at village, urban local body and
through         planning established.   established.                taluka level established.
improved
capacities      State level disaster    State level disaster        3-tier Disaster Management
                management plans        management plans            Plans prepared including all
                prepared.               prepared.                   districts 10,829 villages, 97
                                                                    urban local bodies and 144
                                                                    talukas.

                State wide emergency    State wide emergency        Expert Committee on statewide
                communications          communications network      communication network
                network established     established and made        submitted its final report to
                and made functional     functional                  GSDMA. Final report on
                                                                    "Hazard Early Warning and
                                                                    Communication System" is
                                                                    available & implementation
                                                                    piloted.

                                                                    3- tier control network
                Statewide control       Statewide control rooms
                                                                    established and are operational
                rooms set up or updated set up or updated and
                                                                    at Taluka Level (Mamlatdar
                and made operational.   made operational.
                                                                    Office), District HQ and at
                                                                    State level (Sachivalaya).

                                                                    All procurement underway and
                                        Adequately equipped
                                                                         t    i     t h    b

                                           24

Output from                                           Revised Output
                          Original Output                                        Status of Indicator
each                                                  Indicators
                          Indicators (May 2002)                                  as on September 30, 2008
component                                             (February 2008)
                                                      Regional Emergency          most equipment have been
                                                      Response Centers            received. State ERC Civil
                                                      established                 works ongoing for 4/5 ERCs.



                                                      Emergency response          Contracts have been signed for
                                                      capacity of the municipal   procurement of equipment.
                                                      corporations,
                                                      municipalities and district
                                                      hospitals enhanced


The project did meet and exceed all targets relating to the reconstruction effort. Survey
findings reveal that quality of life has exceeded pre-earthquake levels (the baseline of 1
pre-earthquake dropped to 0.36 immediately after the earthquake and is now at 1.178).

 Quality of Life Index
 1.40


                                   1.143    1.178
 1.20                     1.122
                                            0.035
                                   0.021
      1.000               0.122
 1.00




0.80




0.60



                  0.362
0.40




0.20




0.00

      Baseline   Post EQ Survey 1 Survey 2 Survey 3


Component A: Permanent Housing Reconstruction

Background: The total destruction of approximately 233,660 houses and the partial
damage of a further 971,538 house left the GoG with a tremendous financial and
operational challenge. The GoG subsequently formulated a housing recovery policy,
based on principles of beneficiary contribution and empowerment and community
participation. The policy was operationalized primarily using a homeowner driven
construction approach. Recognizing the skills constraints in constructing to earthquake
resistant standards, the training of masons and engineers was incorporated into the
housing program. Third party technical auditing, to ensure building conformity to the
seismic resilient and development regulations, provided further quality control. Finally,
the transfer of future disaster risks to private sector through housing insurance completed
the housing programs' operational strategy.

IDA responded to the financial challenge of housing reconstruction, targeting 75,000
repairs and the reconstruction of 135,000 fully damaged houses (revised to 42,000 repairs
and reconstruction of 125,000 units). The GEERP Housing component built on the Phase
1 Program (closed on March, 31, 2003) which supported temporary shelters, debris
removal, housing damage assessment, and initiated the housing reconstruction program
by initiating financial assistance to over 500,000 eligible families and completing
approximately 300,000 houses. GEERP focused on financing part of the remainder, but


                                                        25

supported only those beneficiaries, who were homeowners, and who had received a first
installment of payments during the Phase 1 Program. The targets have been
satisfactorily achieved.

Implementation: Under the `homeowner driven approach', cash grant entitlements
(based on a damage assessment) were paid in installments into a beneficiary bank
account based on physical progress and technical quality approvals by project engineers
and taluka officers. Key highlights of the process include:
 · A Damage Assessment was undertaken by a three-member team in each village viz a
    Government Engineer, revenue officer and NGO Representative/School Teacher.
    Housing was classified into five damage categories i.e. from G1 (least damaged) to
    G5 (fully destroyed)1
 · Financial Assistance and Eligibility for the Housing Assistance Cash Grant was
    determined by the assessment and was structured in six packages, including two for
    landless families and tenants (not Bank Financed). Inclusivity was a key aspect of the
    program. Criteria determining eligibility included residential use, proof of ownership
    and residence.
 · The Cash Grant Management Process was undertaken as follows:
    -     Taluka Administration (TA) prepares list of damaged houses, damage
          classifications,   financial   entitlements   based    on   estimated    cost   of
          rehabilitating/reconstructing the houses;
    -     Damage assessment list published in public places and grievances accepted;
    -     Grievance Redressal was implemented at village and district levels. Grievances
          were obtained in writing and ledgers were maintained at districts. Unsatisfied
          Complainants could seek further legal recourse through a Lokpal/Ombudsman
          established by the High Court;
    -     TA prepares final list of beneficiaries. Copies of agreement and `housing
          reconstruction guidelines' are provided to the eligible beneficiaries;
    -     The TA sends the final beneficiary list to the Lead Bank for remitting the fund
          to the beneficiary bank account (jointly held with the spouse);
    -     Lead bank sends the beneficiary list to the local banks for account verifications.
    -     Local banks send officials (with a photographer) to the villages to assist
          beneficiaries in opening a bank accounts (if necessary);
    -     TA deposits the total funds estimated for the first installments to the lead bank
          as an advance. The Lead Bank transfers the funds to the local banks;
    -     Upon the submission of the agreement by the beneficiaries, local banks release
          the first installment to the beneficiary accounts,
    -     Banks release second and third (i.e final) installments based on approvals
          provided by TA.
    -     Final payments for the fully damaged houses are paid upon the conformation
          that the house constructions are technically satisfactory and insured.

 · Technical Assistance and Capacity Building included (i) formulation and publication
    of comprehensive technical guidelines; (ii) appointment and training of about 1,600
    project engineers to supervise and certify technical quality of the constructions, upon
    which payments were made; (iii) training of engineers, masons and artisans on
    earthquake resistant construction.


                                              26

 · Quality Assurance activities included (i) continuous technical supervision by project
     engineers; (ii) third party technical audit by the National Council for Cement and
     Building Materials.
 · A Mandatory Multi Hazard Insurance of Houses transferred the risks of future
     disasters to the private sector and covered new houses, including reconstructed units,
     financed through the World Bank assistance (G5), and NGOs.

Performance: The project has achieved its targets and the following reflect on
performance:

 · Housing Conditions:            The housing program has improved beneficiary access to
     services and living conditions. The percentage of beneficiaries reporting a formal
     (pucca) residence has increased, particularly amongst the poorest beneficiaries.
     Access to sanitation and cooking facilities has also improved. (See Table below)
     However, actual access differs amongst economic groups (particularly in their
     improved access to sanitation) with BPL, SC, ST and OBC still lagging behind
     beneficiaries above the poverty line. (See Table on Improvement in access to service
     delivery)
 · Satisfaction with Homeowner Approach (See Table on beneficiary satisfaction)
     Beneficiaries revealed high level of satisfaction with the homeowner approach, over
     other construction approaches.
 · Incompletion Rate: The project experienced a low incompletion rate ­ 19,51219 are
     estimated to have not completed construction.
 · Late starters: Most of the housing program was completed by March 31, 2003.
     Subsequently, material banks were closed and, by March 31, 2006, project technical
     staffs were mainstreamed into the regular administrative system. Late starters to the
     housing program, (nearly 14,260 families constituting 7.5% of the eligible families),
     subsequently experienced increased cost of construction due to inflation.
 ·   Technical Quality of Houses: The concurrent third party technical audit targeted
     282,000 visits in 41 talukas and observed vast improvements in the technical
     compliance as time progressed, but prior March 31, 2006. However, in the absence of
     a consolidated audit report, it is impossible draw conclusions regarding the overall
     compliance rate.
 · Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 40,421 appeals were received and resolved through
     the project grievance redressal mechanisms. Although each district maintained a
     grievance ledger, there is no centralized database. Consequently, it is not possible to
     provide an analysis of the main grievances.
 · Knowledge Transfer: The transfer of knowledge on best practices in construction
     proved effective at sustaining and improving the application of seismic resistance
     techniques during the reconstruction process. However, field assessments suggest that
     some of these best practices have subsequently been ignored, particularly in rural
     areas, due to the waning institutional intermediation. The enforcement of GDCR and
     building plan approval processes established during the project allows for higher
     levels of sustainability in urban areas.


19The number may decrease as the GSDMA is currently undertaking a verification process. They estimate
that 7,500 beneficiaries of the 19512 have completed their homes to seismic resistant standards.

                                                   27

 · Disaster Risk Transfer Mechanism: Payments for insurance premiums were
    automatically deducted from the final housing installment. However, anecdotal
    evidence points to instances where policy documents were not issued to homeowners.
    There is also a poor awareness of the insurance program, although the demand for
    insurance is currently higher than its supply (see Figure below)
 · Recovery of Unutilized Assistance: The GSDMA is in the process of investigating the
    reasons for non-completion by approximately 19,500 households. Thus far, they have
    found that beneficiaries have completed 478 houses. Initial indications are that a
    further 7,500 houses will qualify for the benefit (i.e. have been completed to seismic
    resistant standards. The GoG have initiated the recovery process (US$ 1,1m thus far)
    where homeowners have not constructed to seismic resistant standards.

Table on Improvements in Access to Services
                         % increase     Access to     % increase in    Access to       % increase in
                         in Pucca       toilets       Separate Toilet  Cooking         separate kitchen
                         Houses                                        Facilities

Urban*                       13              95              5                                6
Below Poverty Line           21              85             27                               17
Above Poverty Line           13              90              5                                4
Scheduled                    20              84             18                               13
Caste/Scheduled                                                              No
Tribe/Other                                                              Discernable
Backward Caste                                                           Difference
Rural*                       31              76             54                89              7
Below Poverty Line           85              55             189               78             23
Above Poverty Line           40              68             74                83              8
Scheduled                    73              60             112               73             10
Caste/Scheduled
Tribe/Other
Backward Caste
*Note that under access data, this refers to the general population




  Table on Satisfaction with Housing Approaches20
           Assessment                Homeowner Driven Model          NGO-Contractor Led Model
      Indicators/ Housing         Self Help        Co-financing    In-situ         Relocation
   Reconstruction Principles      Approach         Approach        Approach        Approach

Beneficiary Satisfaction

Housing Location                          S                S              S              MS

House Size                                S                S              S              MS

Suitable to local lifestyle               S                S              MS             NS

Adequate storage                          S                S              MS             NS



20Self help approach is the classical homeowner driven approach in which houses are reconstructed using
the cash grant and TA provided by the government. Under the co-financing approach a co-funding agency
`tops up' the government grant.

                                                      28

Preferred roofing                                  S                    S                       S                 S

Compound wall                                     NS                   MS                      NS               MS

Privacy maintained                                 S                    S                       S               NS

Stakeholder Ownership

Beneficiary participation                          S                    S                     Ok - NS           NS

Program awareness                                  S                    S                      MS               NS

Community participation                          N/A                    S                      NS               NS

Participation of Panchayat                       N/A                   N/A                     NS                 S

Occupancy                                          S                    S                       S               MS

No preference towards elite                        S                    S                      MS                 S

Opportunity to choose neighbor                     S                    S                       S               NS

Quality of Construction

Use quality materials                              S                    S                       S                 S

Quality workmanship                                S                    S                       S                 S

Basic services provided                           NS                   NS                       S                 S

Meet Seismic Specifications                       MS                    S                       S                 S

Suitable for upgrading                            MS                    S                       S                 S

Organized Development

Safe physical extension                           MS                    S                       S                 S

Encroachment of public space                       S                    S                       S               NS

Land transfer and ownership                        S                    S                       S               NS

House insurance                                    S                    S                      MS               MS

Community space provided                         N/A                   N/A                     MS                 S
Planned development                              N/A                   N/A                     NS                 S

S ­ satisfied, MS = moderately satisfied, NS = not satisfied, N/A = not applicable



  Insurance - Awareness, know how to claim, duration
                                                                       Gap between desired and actual
  and posses relevant documents
                                                                       level of insurance
                  40%

                                        34%
                  35% 32%                                                                 50%
                                                                                                          44%
                                                                                          45%
                  30%                                28%
     stnednopse                               26%
                                                                                          40%
                  25%
                                                            21%                           35%

                  20%                                                                     30%

               R          13%                                                             25%
                  15%          12%
                                   11%                                                          18%
                %                                                            stnednopse   20%
                  10%                                                                  R
                                                                                          15%
                                                                                        %
                   5%                                                                     10%

                   0%                                                                      5%

                            Rural               Urban                                      0%

                                                                          Voluntary Insurance        Willingness to buy Insurance
     Awareness of Insurance - G5       Know how to claim insurance

     Possess relevant documents        Know about Duration of Insurance

Figure 1 Risk Transfer Mechanisms


Component B: Public Infrastructure Reconstruction

Public Buildings:



                                                                    29

Background: The subcomponent included (a) reconstruction and repair of residential and
non-residential buildings; (b) retrofitting to provide for anti-seismic and anti-cyclone
strengthening of        undamaged public buildings of critical importance in the highly
vulnerable seismic zones IV and V, and in other hazard-vulnerable areas; and (c)
construction of new buildings and control rooms for emergency management, the Gujarat
State Disaster Management Authority (GSDMA), Gujarat Institute of Disaster
Management (GIDM) and Institute of Seismological Research (ISR). The targets for this
sub-component have been satisfactorily achieved.

Implementation: The program was implemented through affected GoG line departments
including the Primary Education Department, Higher and Technical Education
Department, Roads and Buildings Department, Police Housing Corporation, and the
urban local bodies such as Ahmadabad Municipal Corporation, Jamnagar Municipal
Corporation, Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation, Surendranagar Municipality and
Radhanpur Municipality. Consultants who lent technical assistance in the planning of
vital institutional complexes21, in determining solutions for retrofitting of damaged and
undamaged buildings and in technical audit and quality assurance for construction
activities, also supported the implementing agencies.

Performance: Reconstruction and Repair. All damaged public buildings were repaired
and retrofitted or reconstructed, as appropriate. Major repair and retrofitting of 3,933
buildings is complete. (This includes 1,330 buildings by State R&B Department, 2,195
by Police Housing Corporation, 125 by Ahmadabad Municipal Corporation, and 283
education buildings by various owners), and reconstruction of 2,501 buildings (695 by
State Roads and Buildings Department, 719 by Panchayat R&B, 562 by Home
Department, 1 by Municipal Corporation, and 524 education buildings by various
owners). Third Parties supervised all work and quality of construction is sound

Performance: Retrofitting. The program for retrofitting of undamaged public buildings
followed subsequent to the rehabilitation/reconstruction of the damaged infrastructure.
An assessment of the condition of buildings owned by the Department of State and
Panchayat located in vulnerable areas, and the practical consideration of what could be
completed by project closing, determined the program's scope. The program targeted
3,162 public buildings and 2,848 buildings were retrofitted by October 31, 2008. Works
are ongoing for 67 panchayat buildings. Contractor poor performance affected progress
for 21 panchayat buildings. 226 buildings (110 state buildings and 116 health/education
buildings) were dropped for various reasons including works financed by other funding
sources, (including government financing).

Performance: Construction of New Buildings.                          Construction of the Institute for
Seismological Research is complete. The GoG have awarded contracts and/or
construction is ongoing for the GIDM, State Emergency Operations Centers (SEOC),
Emergency Response Centers (ERCs) at Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Surat, Vadodara and
Gandhidham. The construction of a new building for the GSDMA was dropped after a


21such as, Jamnagar Municipal Corporation Building, Government Engineering College at Bhuj Institute of
Seismological Research, Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management, State Emergency Operations Center, and
Emergency Response Centers

                                                         30

decision that the institution would continue to operate from the existing premises. The
GoG financed the remaining contracts after the credit closing on October 31, 2008.

Dams and Irrigation:

Background: This subcomponent initially proposed to rehabilitate and strengthen water
storage and irrigation infrastructures damaged by the earthquake in Kutchh and
Saurashtra regions including technical assistance, and works for strengthening of 222
earthen dams (185 dams in Kutchh and 37 dams in Saurashtra) and appurtenant structures
to withstand earthquakes and cyclonic storms22. During project implementation, one dam
(Machhu-I) in the Saurashtra region was dropped as the design could not be finalized
within the project period. However, four new dams in the vulnerable zone were included,
bringing the total number of dams under rehabilitation/strengthening to 225. The IA has
completed implementation of dam safety measures for the additional dams in the
vulnerable zones. The Borrower was unable to complete the construction of two Phase II
dams, (Machhu II and Bhadar) within the project period. The GoG completed the
remaining works by March 31, 2009. Overall, the target of strengthening these dams to
hazard resistance standard has been satisfactorily achieved.

Implementation Process: The program implementation by the WRD began by
immediately undertaking immediate repairs that could be concluded prior to the 2001
monsoon season. 165 dams in Kutchh and 37 dams in Saurashtra fell in this category.
Since detailed designs and as-built drawings for most old minor irrigation dams were not
available, the IA undertook field surveys to reconstruct the pre-earthquake engineering
drawings prior to undertaking designs to ensure the strengthening of the dams. The Dam
Safety Review Panels (DSRP-I and DSRP-II) reviewed and cleared all designs following
their visits to all dam sites, first during the initial review and then after all drawings and
design details were completed23.

Performance: There were significant procurement delays as staff of the IA and local
contractors did not have experience in Bank procurement procedures. Furthermore, at
times, selection of contractors with inadequate experience or resources did occur as the
remote location and small volume of work for most dams made the bid unattractive to
larger contractors. By the end of the original project closing date, civil works
construction 17 dams was complete in Kutchh, and work had commenced on 32 dams in
Saurashtra and 167 dams in Kutchh.

Roads and Bridges:

Background: The project initially targeted the strengthening of approximately 700 km of
roads. This was revised to include 800 km of roads. The sub-component built on the
Phase 1 Program that had rehabilitated 201 km of roads between. December 2001 and


22Detailed measures for strengthening the dams were based on the results of preparatory activities (supported by Phase
I GEERP) and the guidance/recommendations of the two Dam Safety Review Panels.
23This included review of hydrologic studies, guidelines for revised methods for hydrologic studies, review of hydraulic
designs of spillways, gates, stilling basins and waste weirs, examination of their adequacies and recommended
improvement measures, review and recommended improvements of structural designs. The DSRPs also recommended
basic dam safety features that need to be incorporated in these dams.

                                                            31

August 2002. All work on the bridges were initiated under the Phase 1 Program and
continued under this Project (Cr. 3637). The targets for this sub-component have been
satisfactorily achieved.

Implementation and Performance: The roads and bridges reconstruction, rehabilitation
and strengthening program under the Project was managed by the R&BD using the
successful project implementation arrangements, staff and practices of the Bank-financed
Gujarat State Highways Project (GSHP). The rehabilitation of roads was undertaken
under 17 contracts awarded in 2004.           15 contracts covering about 696 km were
completed in 2005, 1 contract (approximately 59 km) was completed in December 2006.
The Roads and Buildings Department (R & BD) terminated a further contract (46km) in
February 2007, because of the contractor's inability to complete the works within
extended time. A different contractor substantially completed the work in March 2008.
Rehabilitation and strengthening of an additional 68 km were undertaken under five
further contracts in March 2007. The Contractor substantially completed these works by
February 2008. The post-works Defects Liability Period (DLP) of one year was over for
17 of these 22 contracts by the credit closing in October 2008. The remaining DLPs will
be completed between November 2008 and March 2009.

Component C: Community Participation

Background: This cross cutting component supported information, communication and
education activities, the establishment of village-level sub-centers to build capacity for
earthquake resistant construction, the formation of self-help groups to monitor
construction activities, gender sensitization and a community disaster preparedness
program. The targets for this component have been satisfactorily achieved.

Implementation and Performance: Community involvement was high during the relief
and reconstruction phase, and through the period of intense activity in both rural and
urban areas. The GoG was also open to the involvement of NGOs and indeed a large
number participated in the relief as well as reconstruction phases of the program. Some
highlights include:

·   Housing: (i) The reconstruction program framed a housing assistance policy based on
    the extent of damage to houses rather than on any social or economic attributes of
    beneficiaries. (ii) Grievance redressal mechanisms were set up to ensure that houses
    were appropriately categorized, and that claimants received due assistance. (iii)
    Owner-driven housing reconstruction helped to increase and internalize knowledge
    on disaster-resistant reconstruction. (iv) Large numbers of masons and engineers were
    trained and were available in the villages/towns during construction to pass on their
    knowledge of disaster-resistant construction. (v) The acquisition of such knowledge
    was also embedded in the payment schedule ­ payments were tied to achievement of
    construction targets with the final payment linked to certification that the house was
    disaster-resistant. (vi) New houses were registered in the names of both husband and
    wife to achieve a measure of gender equity in property ownership.




                                              32

·   Disaster Management: (i) The program included active interpersonal communication
    (e.g. in gram sabhas) and media-based information campaigns to spread knowledge
    about earthquakes as well as other hazards, including floods, fire, and cyclones. (ii)
    Special training programs were also carried out, e.g. program to sensitize officials to
    the special needs of women during disasters. (iii) The program supported efforts to
    organize people in the villages for future disasters, including the establishment of
    Disaster Management Committees (at village, block, district, town and state levels)
    and teams for search and rescue, first aid, providing relief etc. Village disaster
    management plans were prepared and provide information about the village (relevant
    topography, `escape routes', vulnerable people, etc.) and its resources (rescue
    equipment, etc.). (iv) A school safety program focused on improving information and
    preparedness in schools, as well as potentially making schools `safe havens' in future
    disasters. The GoG expanded the program throughout the state.

Component D: Disaster Management

Background: The disaster management component assisted in laying the foundation for
sustainable disaster management capacity in Gujarat. Initial key activities included (i)
emergency management; (ii) hazard mitigation and risk transfer studies and; (iii)
development of disaster management institutions including strengthening the capacity of
the GSDMA and establishing the GIDM and the ISR. The targets for this component
have been satisfactorily achieved.

Implementation and Performance: Disaster Management Institutional Capacity
Building: Gujarat has developed a strong institutional framework towards better disaster
preparedness, risk mitigation and emergency response for future natural disaster events,
as outlined in the Disaster Management Policy for the State. Furthermore, following the
earthquake in 2001, the Gujarat Government acted swiftly in strengthening institutional
and legal frameworks for disaster management through enacting the Gujarat Disaster
Management Act (2003) which also allowed for the legal reconstitution of the GSDMA.

In February 2001, two weeks after the earthquake disaster, the GoG formed the GSDMA,
the central planning, coordinating and monitoring body for disaster management and post
disaster reconstruction and assessment. In addition to the GSDMA, the GoG also
established the Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management, (a first in India) to assist in
training of government officials on disaster management. The GoG established the
Institute of Seismological Research in 2003 to study and disseminate information related
to earthquake prediction, monitoring, computation, and observation network. Permanent
seismological observatories have been established in various districts.

Implementation and Performance: Emergency Management: The project assisted the
state in strengthening its capacity in better managing and responding to emergencies. The
Government has established Emergency Operation Centers (EOCs) in each of the
districts. The State EOC has been strengthened through the procurement of additional
communications and audio/visual equipment and a new center is under construction. In
addition, the GSDMA has established five Regional Emergency Response Centers and
have provided essential search and rescue equipment (such as basic fire, search and


                                              33

rescue equipment and ambulances) to Municipal Corporations including Ahmedabad,
Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar and Junagarh. Vehicles have been retrofitted to be
able to carry all equipments. New mobile communications units have been created for
deployment during emergencies. Fire engines have been procured and redesigned to suit
specific emergencies. Firefighters have been trained for using the new equipment and in
search and rescue techniques. A communication network has been laid to interconnect the
control rooms and response centers.

Implementation and Performance: Hazard Mitigation towards Earthquakes and
Other Hazards: The project assisted the GoG in reviewing Building Codes. Use of the
new codes is now mandatory to ensure hazard resistant building construction. In parallel,
the GoG revised the General Development Control Regulation (GDCR) to ensure
structural safety of buildings and to streamline the building permission process. Manuals
and guidelines for multi-hazard resistant construction and retrofitting of all types of
buildings were prepared, followed by a communications campaign on the new
regulations.

The GoG has piloted programs emphasizing structural and non-structural School Safety
targeting 100,000 students and 3,000 teachers. The non-structural aspects included
preparation of disaster management plans (approximately 152 schools), disaster
preparedness drills, and teacher and student trainings on disaster management, building
seismic safety and retrofitting of damaged structures. Furthermore, over 1,500 teachers
from 25 districts of the state were in the basics of DM, and 86 master trainers and 593
district-level trainers have been trained. An audit for seismic safety of all 55,000-school
buildings will be undertaken, followed by appropriate retrofitting.

The GoG has revised civil engineering curricula to include disaster resistant design and
construction, and this curriculum has been introduced in all polytechnic institutes and
technical universities in Gujarat. Ongoing training is also conducted for practicing
engineers, architects and masons in public and private sectors. The GoG has introduced a
competency based certification program for masons and the Gujarat Professional Civil
Engineer's Act (2006), which has been passed by the Legislative Assembly, will ensure
that only qualified structural engineers undertake design of building structures. The states
hazard risk profile has been mapped and a vulnerability atlas is available to assist in
development planning.

The GSDMA undertook several studies including the Hazard Risk and Vulnerability
Assessment, Review of Building Codes, Feasibility of Seismic Microzonation,
Establishment of Emergency Response Centres, Establishment of Gujarat Institute of
Disaster Management, Establishment of Hazard Early Warning and Communication
System, Damage and Loss Assessment methodology, and Flood Vulnerability
Assessment of four urban agglomerations in Gujarat partly financed by IDA.

Implementation and Performance: Community Participation. In association with
UNDP, a Community Based Disaster Management Program (CBDMP) was launched in
over 4,000 villages in 68 talukas of 14 districts selected based on vulnerability. The
program aimed at building awareness and capacity in disaster management activities with


                                            34

attention to differential gender needs and women's involvement. Training under this
program included orientation training programs for officials in districts and sub-districts,
preparation of communication materials, training of doctors and paramedics, training in
search and rescue operations and early warning and communication systems.
Furthermore, a large numbers of volunteers/responders were given Special Flood Rescue
Training and emergency rescue kits were provided to more than 2,000 flood-prone
villages. A school-safety program was designed, implemented and expanded. The GoG
also established a state specific Disaster Resources Network, containing 9 million
records. The community based program, together with the newly introduced response
system, revealed results and community response during the flood emergency in 2005
and 2006.                                        The figure below adequately demonstrates the results of the awareness
program.


Where have you kept heavy                                                                                           If insidea building when an
                                                             Stand near atall building during
objects in your house?                                                                                              EQhits ...
                                                             EQ?
                          120%
                                                                           120%
                                    96%       95%                                             100%      99%                                      120%
                          100%                                                                                                                        99%
                                                                           100%                                                                               98%      Move out
  st
    nedn                  80%                        Higher                                                    Yes
                                                                           80%
                                                     Heights
        opse                                                  stnedn
                          60%                                                                                                                                          Stay
                                                                                                                                                                       Indoors
            R                                                       opse   60%
                                                                                                               No      stnednopse                100%


                                                                                                                                                  80%


                                                                                                                                                  60%

                          40%                        Lower              R  40%                                                   R
             %                                       Heights
                                                                         %                                                        fo              40%
                                                                                                                                                                       Don't know
                          20%
                                4%       5%                                20%                                                      %             20%
                                                                                           0%        1%
                                                                                                                                                         1% 0%   0% 2%
                            0%                                                        0%
                                                                                                                                                   0%
                                 Urban    Rural                                             Urban     Rural
                                                                                                                                                        Urban   Rural


If outside, when an EQ hits ...
                                                                          Awareness that schools could
                                                                                                                    Use ElectricSwitches during
                                                                          beused as disaster shelters
                            120%

                                    99%          Get under a                           80%                          EQ?
                                                                                            73%
                                            97%
                                                                                                                                                  120%
                            100%                 tree
                                                                                       70%                                                                100%
              stnednopse                                                                             58%                                                            99%

                            80%                                             st 60%                             Yes                                100%
                                                                            n
                                                 Get inside a                ed        50%                 42%                                    80%
                            60%                                                n
                                                 building                       o
                                                                                 ps    40%                     No                                 60%                    No
                        R                                                                        27%
                                                                                   e
                            40%                                                        30%
                                                                                    R
                         %                                                                                                           stnednopser                         Yes




                                                                                                                                                  40%
                                                                                     % 20%
                            20%                  Walk towards                                                                                   %
                                0% 0%  1%2%
                                                 open places                            10%                                                       20%
                                                                                                                                                       0%       1%
                             0%
                                                                                        0%                                                          0%
                                 Urban   Rural
                                                                                              Urban    Rural                                            Urban    Rural


Figure 2. Awareness - Dos and Don'ts




Project Sustainability Concerns include:
  · Completion of Construction and Procurement of Equipment: (i) some essential
                                infrastructure (including the GIDM building and campus, the State EOC and three
                                district EOCs) are still to be completed with financing from the GoG; (ii)
                                procurement                               of                 some            essential                                     equipment             for emergency response and
                                communications is still outstanding and is being financed by the GoG.
  · Continued Engagement of Local Government: GSDMA will have to ensure continued
                                engagement and interest of local government authorities at the district, taluka and
                                sub-taluka level and of community members trained through earlier CBDRM
                                initiatives. The state will face challenges in operationalising the ERCs, as this
                                requires the integration of several levels of government.




                                                                                                                                                             35

     Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
     (including assumptions in the analysis)



Not carried out for the Emergency Reconstruction Project




                           36

     Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

    (a) Task Team members
                                                                  Responsibility/
           Names                         Title               Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Shyamal Sarkar           Task Team Leader                   SASDU
Robert M. Maurer         Lead Urban Specialist              SASEI
Deepak K. Mishra         Sr. Economist                      SASPR
Jelena Pantelic          Consultant, Disaster Management    SASEI
Bilal H. Rahill          Lead Environment Specialist        SASES
Meera Chatterjee         Sr. Social Development Specialist  SASDI
Natarajan Raman          Principal Procurement Specialist   SARPS
Devesh Chandra Mishra    Sr. Procurement Specialist         SARPS
Radhey S. Pathak         Sr. Irrigation Engineer            SASDA
Preeti Kudesia           Sr. Public Health Specialist       SASHD
Sumir Lal                External Affairs officer           SAREX
Vijayasekar Kalavakonda  Senior Insurance Specialist       GCMNB
Tapas Paul               Sr. Environmental Specialist       SASDI
Prema Clarke             Sr. Education Specialist           SASHD
Vandana Rao Sipahimalani Education Economist                SASHD
Fabio Galli              Sr. Financial Specialist           SARFM
Margaret Arnold          Sr. Disaster Management Specialist TUDUR
Jaswant Channe           Transport Specialist               SASEI
Narayanan Edadan         Consultant, Housing                SASEI
R. K. Malhotra           Consultant, Dam Safety/Irrigation  SASEI
Kavita P. Rao            Consultant, Economic Analysis      SASPR
Sangeeta Anand           Program Assistant                  SASEI
Margaret Anne D' Costa   Program Assistant                  SASEI
 \\



Supervision/ICR
Shyamal Sarkar           Task Team Leader till 07/31/2008   SASDU
Soraya Goga              Task Team Leader from 08/01/2008 SASDU
Robert Maurer            Lead Urban Specialist              SASEI
Jelena Pantelic          Consultant, Disaster Management    SASEI
Bilal H. Rahill          Lead Environment Specialist        SASES
Devesh Chandra Mishra    Sr. Procurement Specialist         SARPS
Meera Chatterjee         Sr. Social Development Specialist  SASDI
Sujit Das                Sr. Transport Engineer             SASDT
Prabir Joardar           Sr. Irrigation Engineer            SASDA
Radhey S. Pathak         Sr. Irrigation Engineer            SASDA
Margaret Arnold          Sr. Disaster Management Specialist TUDUR
Santosh Kumar            Disaster Management Specialist     SASEI
                         ET Consultant, Disaster
Saurabh Suresh Dani                                         SASDU
                         Management
Sameer Akbar             Sr. Environmental Specialist       SASES


                                          37

Tapas Paul                      Sr. Environmental Specialist             SASES
Gaurav D. Joshi                 Environmental Specialist                 SASDI
Manmohan Singh Bajaj            Sr. Procurement Specialist              SARPS
Debabrata Chakraborti           Sr. Procurement Specialist              SARPS
Dara LengKong                   Young Professional                       SASEI
Sumir Lal                       External Affairs officer                SAREX
Raghu Kesavan                   Sr. Infrastructure Specialist           SASDU
Vandana Rao Sipahimalani        Education Economist                     SASHD
Deepa Sankar                    Education Economist                     SASHD
                                Sr. Financial Management
Priya Goel                                                              SARFM
                                Specialist
                                Sr. Financial Management
Atul Bhalchandra Deshpande                                              SARFM
                                Specialist
Rajat Narula                    Financial Management Specialist         SARFM
Eugene N. Gurenko               Lead Financial Sector Specialist        GCMNB
Sanjay Rastogi                  Consultant, Financial Management SARFM
Harbans Lal Aneja               Consultant, Procurement                 SARPS
R. K. Malhotra                  Consultant, Dam Safety/Irrigation        SASEI
Narayanan Edadan                Consultant, Housing                     SASDU
Sangeeta Anand                  Program Assistant                        SASEI
Michelle Lisa Chen              Program Assistant                       SASDU
Sunita Singh                    Team Assistant                          SASDU


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                  USD Thousands (including
                                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                  2                           20.7
  FY02                                                95                           299.524

                                Total:                97                           320.2
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                45.80                         98.4
  FY04                                                45.11                        103.9
  FY05                                                29.78                         95.5
  FY06                                                18.91                         54.8
  FY07                                                18.97                         50.9
  FY08                                                17.04                         63.1
  FY09                                                14.86                         86.6

                                Total:               190.47                        553.2




24Note that staff weeks and expenditures include supervision of Phase 1.



                                                   38

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
             (if any)
          Not applicable




                39

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                     (if any)

                 Not Applicable




                        40

       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

    INDIA: GUJARAT EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION
                              PROJECT (Credit 36370-IN)

          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT AND RESULTS
    Evaluation by the Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority (GSDMA)



1. Window of opportunity:

Gujarat has a history of turning adversity into an opportunity and the devastating
earthquake of 2001 again provided an opportunity for conceiving a programme with a
clear vision in mind i.e. to "Build Back Better". The relief, reconstruction and
rehabilitation in the earthquake affected areas in Gujarat have won universal acclaim.
    ¾ GSDMA         was    awarded    the   Commonwealth         Association  for Public
       Administration & Management (CAPAM) GOLD Award for "Innovations in
       Governance" in the year 2004. Innovations like Owner Driven Construction, role
       and involvement of community at every stage of implementation, transparency,
       equity procedures and various capacity building initiatives were recognized and
       appreciated by CAPAM.
    ¾ GSDMA was awarded the United Nations Sasakawa Award for Disaster Risk
       Reduction 2003 for innovative approaches adopted in disaster situations wherein
       many partners and stakeholders provided knowledge and resources to formulate
       effective policies and legislation for disaster risk reduction.
    ¾ GSDMA's "Gujarat EmergencyEarthquakeReconstruction Project"and theTask
       team of the World Bank associated with the Project was awarded the prestigious
       Green Award by the World Bank in 2004 for successfully integrating
       environmental concerns and safeguards in the Emergency Reconstruction and
       Rehabilitation Programme.

2.Project Design: Integrating disaster risk mitigation and reconstruction

Gujarat being a multi-hazard prone State, the need was to adopt a holistic, integrated and
comprehensive approach to disaster management, focusing on risk and vulnerability
reduction through policy, legislation, capacity building, education and communication to
reduce the impact of disasters and achieve better preparedness. Subsequent to the
earthquake of 2001, the State Government, with the assistance of the World Bank and
ADB, developed a strategy for rebuilding damaged infrastructure and services,
supporting the livelihoods of vulnerable households and building adequate disaster
management capacity. The strategy moved beyond reconstruction to disaster risk
mitigation following a phased implementation pattern. Phase I of the GEERP supported
immediate repair, reconstruction and rehabilitation of assets like housing, health,
education, dams and irrigation, roads and bridges, public buildings, whereas Phase II
supported reconstruction and recovery efforts to complement and reinforce the
achievements of the Phase I interventions and support the implementation of disaster risk
mitigation strategies, involving community participation and institutional development.



                                             41

A massive rehabilitation and reconstruction program (Gujarat Emergency Earthquake
Reconstruction Program ­ GEERP) amounting to US$ 1,765 million was launched with
GoG funding and assistance from the Government of India, and bilateral and multilateral
funding agencies: The World Bank; Asian Development Bank, the Netherlands
Government, European Commission etc. Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority
(GSDMA) was established to coordinate between international funding agencies and
implementing agencies such as government department, NGOs etc. The Gujarat State
Disaster Management Policy was framed and the Gujarat State Disaster Management
Act, 2003 was enacted.

In order to build the long term capacity in multi-hazard resistant construction, a huge
force of engineers and masons were trained. A mechanism for screening of competent
engineers and masons was put in place through certification of masons and licensing of
engineers. Quality certifications of constructions were carried out by government
engineers and third party auditors for compliance with the seismic resistant features.
Issues related to building codes and general development control regulations were
addressed. Revision of syllabi and training of teachers of technical institutions was
undertaken. The Disaster Management component was designed to support the State in
achieving its long term goals of building institutions to prevent and manage disasters. It
dealt with the main facets of disaster management, including both pre-disaster and post-
disaster activities like

­       Emergency management, including pre-disaster preparedness and post-disaster
response;

­       Hazard mitigation and risk transfer activities, comprising both structural and non-
structural measures; and

­       Development of disaster management institutions including strengthening the
GSDMA and establishing the GIDM and the ISR


3.Housing Initiatives:

The State Government adopted a two fold approach towards housing reconstruction, one
for rural and one for urban areas.

In the rural areas, in-situ reconstruction was encouraged so that minimum relocation of
the community took place. As part of the community participation initiative and long
term capacity building of stakeholders, owner driven housing reconstruction
programme was launched wherein the owners themselves repaired / reconstructed their
houses as per their need and pace. To facilitate easy access to quality building materials
at controlled prices and to ensure timely completion of procurement by the beneficiaries,
the Government established a large number of material banks for supplying cement, steel,
etc. in the affected areas at a subsidized rate The Government also actively sought
participation of NGOs and other private institutions in the reconstruction program by
institutionalizing Public Private Partnership Programme (PPPP) thereby bringing in
resources and expertise from diverse civil society groups.



                                            42

The situation in the urban areas posed many challenges. The situation in the affected
urban towns was marked by poor quality of both housing stock as well as accessibility for
immediate rescue and relief operations. Interventions were required not only for
reconstructing the damaged houses and infrastructure but also to upgrade them in
qualitative terms while conforming to the revised seismic standards and the revised
development control regulations. In order to address the vulnerability and upgrade the
quality of infrastructure in the hitherto unplanned and unregulated four towns of Kutch,
development plans and town planning schemes were prepared with a 50 and 20 years
growth perspective respectively. About 19 scientific studies and analysis, such as base
map preparation, total station survey, land use, contour mapping, geological, seismicity
studies, assessment of relocation needs, urban design etc. were conducted to ascertain the
safety of rebuilding these towns in-situ.

Some of the highlights of the housing recovery programme are mentioned below:

   ·    Damage Assessment ­ Damage Assessment Survey was carried out by teams
       comprising of an engineer, revenue officer and local social worker. The fiscal
       assistance was determined on the basis of the damage category worked out by the
       Seismic Advisor to GSDMA. The findings of the survey were placed before the
       respective Gram Sabhas. A multistage appeals procedure was established to
       redress grievances related to assessment. The District Judge was designated as the
       Ombudsman to enquire and dispose grievances by giving directions to the
       district administration.
   ·    Community Participation ­ In rural areas, under the PPPP, active participation
       of the affected communities was sought through a participatory process by
       providing a choice of either complete relocation or in situ reconstruction. In the
       urban areas, over 180 public consultations were conducted with different
       stakeholders to ascertain their views and suggestions while finalizing the plans.
   ·    Training of masons and engineers - Recognizing the need for improving the
       skill set of local masons and engineers in earthquake resistant technologies and to
       build the capacity of the region in terms of trained manpower, a programme of
       training masons and engineers in seismic resistant reconstruction was initiated.
   ·    IEC activities - In order to transfer the technical know-how regarding hazard
       resistant construction, over 1 million brochures were distributed in the affected
       areas. A Home Owners Guide outlining safe construction practices was also
       prepared. IEC materials were publicized through a massive awareness campaign
       via various medium like local newspapers, state transport buses, posters,
       magazines, TV and audio-visual shows, folk arts and shake table demonstrations
       at regular intervals aimed at creating sustained awareness on disaster resistant
       reconstruction and retrofitting.
   ·    Inclusiveness ­ A flexible approach to housing reconstruction was adopted by
       formulating 6 special packages considering geographical spread, extent of damage
       & structural types. A special package was also formulated to address the issues of
       tenants who were living in rented houses damaged or destroyed by the earthquake.
       A provision was also made for addressing the reconstruction needs of slum
       dwellers in the housing packages (2, 3, 4B and 5).



                                            43

    ·  Material Assistance - 1082 material banks were opened to ensure not only the
       availability of good quality building material but also as a price control measure
       in housing reconstruction thereby obviating the necessity of top-ups in terms of
       fiscal assistance. Approximately, 21.9 million cement bags apart from steel were
       distributed at subsidized cost. Excise duty/ sales tax exemption was granted for
       building materials procured in Kutch.
    ·  Financial Discipline & Risk Transfer ­ To ensure financial transparency,
       payment of housing assistance was made directly to the beneficiary's bank
       account. More than 6, 60,000 bank accounts were opened for this purpose. A
       stage payment system was adopted to ensure that the houses adhered to seismic
       norms before release of subsequent installments. The reconstructed houses were
       insured against 14 types of hazards for a 10 year period at a nominal premium of
       Rs.367/- per house.
    ·  Quality Control ­ The National Council for Cement and Building Material
       (NCCBM), a reputed agency in India, was appointed as the independent third
       party technical auditor for conducting quality tests on a variety of building
       material such as concrete cubes, hollow blocks, cement, soil, water, etc. and also
       to check compliance with seismic design standards / norms.
    ·  Equity ­ Subsequent to the house to house survey, the quantum of fiscal
       assistance for housing reconstruction was determined on a pro-rata basis with
       reference to the extent of damage suffered. The survey essentially aimed at
       capturing data relevant for determining fiscal assistance and ownership.
       Extraneous information like caste, religion, community, etc. were consciously not
       captured thereby ensuring unbiased assistance. As a gender sensitive initiative, it
       was made mandatory to register the reconstructed houses in the joint name of
       husband and wife. Further, in case of widows, the houses were registered in their
       name and not in the name of any relative of the deceased.
    ·  As part of the housing reconstruction program, a total of 908,751 houses were
       repaired and 202,343 houses were reconstructed to hazard resistant standards. The
       phase wise break-up of repaired and reconstructed houses through various funding
       sources is given below:

  Category                WB Funded Houses              Other Funded          Total
                       Phase-I           Phase-II           Houses
                   1st April '01 to   1st April '03 to
                     31st Mar `03       31st Oct `08
Repair                 364797             41751             502203           908751
Reconstruction         16529              125781             60033           202343

4.Public Infrastructure: Status, Built better than what was before

The Public Infrastructure component included reconstruction / strengthening of roads and
public buildings and restoration of dams.

All the public buildings, taken up for reconstruction incorporated multi-hazard resistant
features. Nationally reputed agencies were engaged as Third party quality assurance
consultants to ensure both construction quality and incorporation of seismic resistant


                                            44

features. Additionally, an innovative initiative for retrofitting undamaged public
buildings in the seismically vulnerable areas was undertaken to ensure long term safety
and encouraging the concept through a demonstrative effect.

The road infrastructure including bridges suffered varying damages due to the
earthquake. They were not only restored but also strengthened, incorporating earthquake
and cyclone resistant features, to address the increased vehicular traffic pursuant to the
massive reconstruction task.


Water storage and irrigation infrastructure in Kutch and Saurashtra had been severely
affected. The task of emergency repairs of damaged dams before the impending
monsoons and their subsequent restoration and strengthening in the absence of original
designs / drawings was an immense challenge. In this context, two Dam Safety Review
Panels (DSRPs) consisting of experts were constituted to review, evaluate and suggest
the approach towards repairs, restoration and strengthening of damaged dams as per
design criteria with reference to the latest relevant Indian Standards.


Under the Public Infrastructure component of Phase-II of GEERP, a total of 3418 public
buildings were repaired, 1977 buildings were reconstructed and 232 damaged buildings
were retrofitted through various line departments. Under the special component of
retrofitting of undamaged public buildings, 2912 buildings were retrofitted. Under the
roads and bridges component, 885 km of State roads were strengthened, major repairs
carried out in 100 bridges and culverts, 129 bridges restored and 28 bridges
reconstructed. As part of the Dam Safety component, 225 dams in Kutch and Saurashtra
region were strengthened.


5.Community Participation & Disaster Management:

Community Participation in a rehabilitation programme is essential for empowering the
community to take decisions regarding the implementation of the programme as per their
priority and choice thereby ensuring acceptability, satisfaction and capacity building to
prepare for disasters. Recognizing its importance, the Government focused on long term
capacity building of the community through awareness and training programmes as well
as making institutional arrangements for the involvement of the population at large with
emphasis on enlisting the participation of the youth and women. Some of the key
activities carried out under the community participation component are mentioned below:

School Safety

School Safety is one of the priority areas of GSDMA. As part of the GEERP, GSDMA
has been engaged in promoting a culture of safety in schools through structural and non-
structural risk reduction measures.

GSDMA has implemented two pilot projects covering both urban and rural areas of the
State focusing on school safety initiatives through training of students and teachers. The
Gujarat School Safety Initiative ­ I (GSSI - I) was implemented in the three pilot cities of
Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Jamnagar covering 152 municipal and private schools


                                              45

wherein 86,000 students and 1,500        teachers were trained in the basics of disaster
management, mock drills, and preparation of school disaster management plan and non-
structural mitigation measures.

The Gujarat School Safety Initiative ­ II (GSSI ­ II) building on the achievements aimed
and was successful in creating a pool of 86 and 679 master trainers at the State and
district levels respectively. A draft school syllabus on the basics of disaster management
for standards 7th to 10th was also prepared.

Based on the learning's and experiences of GSSI ­ I and II and given the potential of the
programme in ensuring sustainable and long term capacity building, GSDMA is currently
engaged in up-scaling the programme to cover the entire State involve around 55,000
public and private schools and 2.2 million teachers and incorporate both structural and
non-structural measures.

Disaster Risk Management Programme (DRMP)

The DRMP was launched by GSDMA in 2003 jointly through United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and World Bank funding to build long term capacities
among stakeholders, especially the communities in preparing for and managing disasters.
The program has been highly satisfactory and given its potential is being implemented in
18 most hazard prone districts of the State covering 11,342 villages in 142 talukas.

Benefit Monitoring & Social Impact Assessment

GSDMA conducted two studies on a consultancy basis to assess the impact of the
reconstruction programme on the beneficiaries with focus on the benefits accruing to the
weaker and vulnerable sections of the society in both urban and rural areas viz. - The
Social Impact Assessment (SIA), as a concurrent activity and the Benefit Monitoring
(BM) Study, as a periodic activity during 2003 ­ 2007. The findings of the studies played
a very important role in assessing the impact of the rehabilitation interventions as well as
making necessary corrections in terms of policy and implementation.

The major findings reveal that:

    o Considerable amelioration was achieved in the short term initial phase in
        addressing areas like relief distribution, damage assessment, community
        participation and grievance redressal
    o Significant positive differences emerged with regard to livelihood and
        infrastructure interventions
    o Considerable improvement has occurred in the area of strengthening the societal
        capacity with regard to disaster preparedness
    o Coordination and monitoring procedures for ensuring greater transparency have
        been effective as highlighted by the access of community group to information
    o The participation of women in decision making has been greater than before and
        members of SHGs have been empowered to some extent. Income levels of 72%
        women have increased.



                                             46

    o Temporary shelters have been demolished or surrendered and residents have
        moved to permanent houses, especially the vulnerable sections
    o Reconstructed units are having better unit and community level infrastructure
        with owners having reconstructed houses as per their requirements. Occupancy
        levels are a high 93%
    o The vulnerable sections have better housing stock with improved facilities. 23%
        Below Poverty Line (BPL) families now live in permanent houses and 82% have
        toilet facilities as compared to 57% before the earthquake.

6. Disaster Risk Management: ERC, SEOC, GIDM, ISR, Equipments, Studies


The Disaster Management Capacity Building (DMCB) component played an important
role in developing and laying the foundations of a strong institutional framework aimed
towards better disaster preparedness, risk mitigation and emergency response with
respect to disaster events, as outlined in the Disaster Management Policy of the State.
Following the earthquake in 2001, the State Government acted swiftly in this direction by
enacting the Gujarat Disaster Management Act (2003) establishing the GSDMA and
providing a legal framework for disaster management including the roles, functions,
responsibilities and duties of various stakeholders. The project assisted the State in
strengthening its capacity in managing and responding to emergencies efficiently and
effectively through various structural and non-structural measures. Some of the important
initiatives under this component are mentioned below:

Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management (GIDM)


The GIDM was established on January 26, 2004 to cater to the theoretical and practical
training needs of various stakeholders in disaster management. Construction of new
campus of GIDM is ongoing and is expected to function from the new campus towards
the end of the fiscal year 2009-2010. Training programs are designed and conducted to
manage various types of disasters. GIDM will also be involved in research and applied
research activities related to disaster management. Till date, 140 training programmes
covering 3,787_participants have been conducted.

Institute of Seismological Research (ISR)


Given the high seismic vulnerability of the State and the requirement of continuous
seismic surveillance, the State Government established ISR in July 2004 under the World
Bank funded GEERP. ISR is involved in pure and applied research in the field of
seismology. It has operationalized a Seismic Network of 22 Observatories and 40 Strong
Motion Accelerograph's (SMAs) along with VSAT connectivity for first time in the
country for the purposes of surveillance and research and is capable of determining
seismic data within ten minutes of arrival of seismic waves. Additionally, it has been
conducting seismic microzonation studies on a project basis which are extremely useful
for planning purposes.




                                             47

State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC)


Control rooms are operational at the State as well as the district and taluka levels.
However, in order to bring it at par with the facilities available in EOCs of developed
countries, the State has constructed the SEOC and the District Emergency Operation
Centers (DEOCs) under the World Bank funded GEERP. State of the art equipments for
communication have also been provided to the SEOC and DEOCs under the Disaster
Risk Management Programme.

Emergency Response Centers (ERCs)


The experience of the earthquake in terms of scale of damage and scope of spread lead to
a realization that there is a need for relevant equipments and trained personnel to respond
effectively with minimal time lag. The Government has hence decided to set up five
ERCs at strategic locations across the State with trained personnel and adequate
sophisticated equipments. The construction of the ERCs is in progress and is likely to be
completed by December 2009. Delivery of 80% of the equipments for the ERCs has been
taken and the remaining items are likely to be delivered by June 2009.

Emergency Equipment


Recognizing that the immediate responders after any disaster are the local people, local
self governments and the district administration, a need was felt to strengthen the existing
response capacities of the Municipal Corporations and Municipalities in order to enable
them to react quickly and effectively. Three sets of fire and emergency equipments have
been provided to six municipal corporations under the GEERP. Emergency response
capacity of municipalities has also been strengthened by equipping them with basic fire,
search and rescue equipments.

Hazard Mitigation Studies commissioned by GSDMA:

One of the innovative initiatives taken up under the GEERP was the incorporation of a
comprehensive hazard risk reduction and mitigation component. The component helped
institutionalize the regulatory measures, raised public awareness to natural hazards and
launch various structural and non-structural initiatives to support risk reduction measures
in a State prone to various hazards. GSDMA undertook several studies including the
Hazard Risk and Vulnerability Assessment; Review of Building Codes; Feasibility of
Seismic Microzonation; Establishment of Emergency Response Centers; Establishment
of Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management; Establishment of Hazard Early Warning and
Communication System; Damage and Loss Assessment methodology; and Flood
Vulnerability Assessment of four urban agglomerations in Gujarat partly financed by
IDA. Some of the important studies completed under this component are mentioned
below:




                                              48

   ¾ HazardRiskandVulnerabilityAtlas:

   A composite Hazard Risk and Vulnerability Atlas, up to the block level, the first of its
   kind in the World, has been prepared for the State which is being used extensively as
   a planning tool in disaster management.

   ¾ ReviewOfBuildingCodes&Preparationofhandbookandcommentary:

   The study was undertaken through Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IITK). It
   identified gaps in the existing BIS codes related to Earthquake, Wind and Fire and
   has recommended changes/ improvements in the above codes to ensure hazard
   resistant building construction with specific reference to earthquakes, cyclones and
   fire which is being referred to by the concerned departments.

   ¾ FeasibilityStudyforSeismicMicrozonation:

   Given the high seismic profile of Gujarat, the preparation of seismic hazard and
   vulnerability maps of appropriate scale is important for disaster management
   planning. GSDMA therefore conducted a Feasibility Study on Seismic Microzonation
   at a State level as a precursor to actual seismic microzonation studies. Based on the
   outcome of the feasibility study and upon the suggestion by a panel of seismic
   experts, a detailed study on Seismic Microzonation of Gandhidham ­ Kutch was
   undertaken given its vulnerability to seismic hazard and risk to assets. The study has
   been completed and ISR is examining the same and would suggest various mitigation
   measures including those of a structural and developmental in the light of the
   findings. Additionally, as a step towards integrating disaster mitigation with
   development planning, ISR has also taken up the seismic microzonation study of the
   proposed Special Investment Region near Dholera in Ahmedabad district.

   ¾ HazardEarlyWarningandEmergencyCommunicationSystem:

   The existence and availability of a reliable and effective means of communication
   capable of operating in disaster situations with redundancy capabilities is imperative
   for ensuring the effectiveness of disaster warning and response activities. A study to
   determine the requirement in this context was conducted by GSDMA under the
   GEERP. The outcome will be used to augment hazard early warning and emergency
   communication capabilities.

   ¾ FloodVulnerabilityAssessmentofFourMajorCitiesofGujarat:


   GSDMA has initiated a Flood Vulnerability Assessment of four major cities of the
   State viz. Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot aimed at using the findings as an
   input for future development planning through structural and non-structural measures.
   The study is expected to be completed by June 2009.

Given the overall objectives of carrying out the second phase of a program of
rehabilitation and reconstruction in the areas affected by the Gujarat earthquake of

                                            49

January 26, 2001, including the restoration of housing and public buildings, restoration of
basic infrastructure in the roads and irrigation sectors and development of an institutional
framework to allow better disaster mitigation and risk management for future natural
disasters, ,the project has performed exceedingly well given the fact that a multi-faceted
project of this magnitude and nature is without precedent in the country. The targets were
met and in some cases, were even exceeded. Strong commitment and increased
awareness about risk mitigation at the local levels has ensured ownership and
sustainability of the assets created. The project also significantly and positively
influenced disaster awareness at community level. The GEERP initiatives also had a
positive impact on disaster management at State and National levels. The State
Government continues to demonstrate fiscal and institutional commitment to the project
objectives, particularly as they relate to the long-term goal of the development of
comprehensive disaster risk mitigation. The three institutions, whose formation was
precipitated by the earthquake, identified as key institutions for sustainable disaster
management and subsequently supported by the project (i.e. the GSDMA, the GIDM and
the ISR), continue to be supported by the State Government, subsequent to project
closure.

7.Observation on Bank's performance:

       ·     While it is undeniably true that GSDMA learnt a lot from the World Bank in
            implementing the project, there are areas where the interface could have been
            greatly improved. Firstly, we found the initial project period of three years to
            be misconceived and unrealistic. A programme of this magnitude with large
            scale inputs of sensitizing stakeholders, NGOs, local functionaries could, ab
            initio, require time for the programme to be inclusive in all aspects. In our
            opinion this aspect was lost sight of by the Bank in the initial stages.

       ·    Secondly, we found the Bank's procurement process to be clumsy and
            cumbersome especially those related to equipment procurement. While the
            Bank has been informing country authorities that Bank procedures would be
            aligned largely with country practices, at least with Middle Income Countries
            (MIC), this has remained a platitude. Adoption of country practices would
            have speeded up project implementation. In fact the GSDMA's interface with
            the Asian Development Bank on procurement issues was far smoother.

       ·    The ban on contracts awarded on the basis of National Shopping caused
            unnecessary delay on project implementation. The Bank's ill-conceived policy
            on National Shopping, actuated, presumably, by the knee-jerk response of the
            former management in the light of the RCH-I programme, was
            incomprehensible and unwarranted. There is need to address such issues with
            a greater degree of professionalism in the Bank.

       ·    Lastly, all issues detailed above pinpoints to a borrower's "cost of doing
            business with the Bank". In an era when a country has a choice of shopping
            among other Regional Development Banks, and the market for project funds,
            it may be in the Bank's interest to bring down these "costs".


                                              50

8.Observation of Borrower's performance: GOG(Line Dept.) , MHA, GSDMA /

The overall objectives of the GEERP have been largely achieved within a stipulated time
frame without compromising the quality aspects. Hence the performance of the line
departments of the State Government in implementing the project could be termed as
satisfactory. The performance of MHA and the DEA was also satisfactory as far as
smooth fund flow and continuous / periodic project management is concerned.

9.Lesson learnt:

1) Paradigm shift in disaster management: The most important lesson that emerges is
    the need of changing the attitude towards disaster management from a traditional
    relief orientation to a culture of disaster prevention, mitigation and preparedness.
    Another paradigm shift was from a philosophy of restoring assets to their pre-disaster
    levels to one of planning to reconstruct better multi-hazard disaster resistant assets.
2) Project Duration: A programme of this magnitude with large scale inputs of
    sensitizing stakeholders, NGOs, local functionaries could, ab initio, require a realistic
    time frame for the programme to be inclusive in all aspects.
3) Dedicated agency for implementation: Establishment of an independent and
    dedicated authority in the form of GSDMA, with a legal framework and well defined
    accounting standards and the continuity of core staff of the implementing and funding
    agencies is crucial for effective implementation of the reconstruction and
    rehabilitation programme,.
4) Owner Driven Approach through community participation: Owner Driven
    Approach and community involvement and participation in housing reconstruction
    programme has helped in the acceptability and successful implementation of the
    housing programme across the affected areas having different culture, customs, etc.
    within the stipulated time frame. The programme was inclusive, gender sensitive and
    environmentally sustainable.
5) Institutionalization of disaster management:             It is important that disaster
    management activities do not remain as ad-hoc practices. Major initiatives have been
    taken by Gujarat in this direction by way of establishing the Gujarat State Disaster
    Management Authority (GSDMA), the Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management
    (GIDM), the Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) and other DRM initiatives.
6) Paving the way for risk transfer: Linking the housing reconstruction programme
    with insurance will ensure that the cost of future rehabilitation in case of possible
    calamities will largely be taken care by market forces with the State playing a
    facilitatory role.

10. Acknowledgement of Bank's support:

The World Bank played a very crucial role in the reconstruction process by sanctioning
the first phase assistance in a record time. The continuation of some of the key members
of the Banks team associated with the project right from day one played a vital role in
execution of the program. Various line departments of the Government appreciated the
guidance received from the Bank team in the formulation of proposals, preparation of the
consultant's terms of reference and evaluation of proposals etc. In summary, the
association with the World Bank helped Gujarat in capacity building in reconstruction
and disaster risk management.

                                             51

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                         Not Applicable




                               52

                Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

(i)   Project Implementation Plan
(ii)  Technical Annex dated April 10, 2002
(iii) Implementation Completion and Results Report and Final Implementation
      Support Mission Aide Memoire
(iv)  Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement, International
      Development Association Dated June 4, 2002
(v)   Supervision/Implementation Support Mission Reports (Aide Memoires and
      Implementation Status Reports )
(vi)  Project Quarterly Progress Reports by GSDMA
(vii) Final Report on Benefit Monitoring Evaluation of GEERP
(viii) Housing Reconstruction Program - Lessons Learnt
(ix)  Amendments to legal Documents/Letters/Internal Memos on restructuring in
      December 2004 and in February 2008 and those related to two cancellations
      in June 2005 and February 2008
(x)   Project Paper, February 2008




                                   53

           68°                                       69°                                      70°                            71°                              72°                              73°                              74°                       75°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INDIA
             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                        GUJARAT EMERGENCY
             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                   DHANFRA
             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                         P A K I S T A N                                                    THARAD                                                      EARTHQUAKE RECON-
                                                                                                                                                            B A N A S K A N T H A
                                                                                                                                               VAV                       Deesa    Banaskantha                       STRUCTION PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                  DEESA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24°
                                                                                                                                                          KANKREJ

           24°
                                                                                                                                        SANTALPUR                                                                                   RAJASTHAN
                                                                                                                                                                         Patan
                                               Lakhpat                                                                                                     P A T A N                                   Shamlaji
                                                                                                                                                                                      Visnagar
                                                                                           K U T C H                                                                                               Himatnagar
                                                                                                                                                       SAMI                      Mehsana
                                       LAKHPAT                                                                       RAPAR                                                                          SABARKANTHA
                                                                                                                                                                           MEHSANA                            Modasa

                                                                                        BHUJ                                                                                                      Harsol
                                                              NAKHATRANA
                                                              Nakhatrana                                  BHACHAU                                                                                          Dhansura
                                                                                                                                                                                      GANDHINAGAR
                                                                                Bhuj                                                                     DASADA                               Gandhinagar
                                                ABDASA                                                                                                                Viramgam
                                                                                                                          Maliya                                                                                                                              23°
                                                                                                                                       HALVAD   DHRAN-                                     Naroda
                                                                                                                                                                                        Ahmedabad            Balasinor
                                                                                            ANJAR                                       Halvad GADHRA                        Sarkhej
                                                                                                                                                       Bajana                       DASKROI       K H E D A           PANCH          DAHOD
           23°                                                       MANDVI                     Kandla                                  Dhrangadhra                  AHMEDABAD
                                                                                                                          MORVI                                                               Mahemdabad            MAHALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dahod
                                                                                    MUNDRA                                               SURENDRANAGAR
                                                                                                                                                                                    Kheda        Umreth   Dakor          Godhra
                                                                                                            JODIYA                        Surendranagar                                  Nadiad
                                                                                                                                                   WADHWAN       Bagodra            Dholka                                                       MADHYA
                                                                    Gulf of Kutch                                                                                                  Vataman
                                                                                                        Dhrol  DHROL                                          LIMBDI                                 Anand           Halol
                                                                                                                            WANKANER
                                                                                                                                                                 Fedra                    TarapurBorsad                                          PRADESH
                                                                                          Jamnagar
                                                               Okha                                                                                      Dhandhuka        Pipri      A N A N D
                                                                                                  JAMNAGAR                                                                                                   Vadodara
                                                          OKHA-              KHAMBHALIA                             Rajkot                                                                                                    Bodeli
                                                         MANDAL          Khambhalia                                                                               Dholera                                Padra VADODARA
                                                                                               LALPUR                   R A J K O T
                                                                                     J A M N A G A R                                                                                                                                                           22°
                                                                                                                                                                                     Jambusar
                                                                       KALYANPUR
                                                                                                                                  Atkot                                                    Amod                            Tilakwada
           22°                                                                                                                                                  Valbhipur
                                                                                                                                             Chavad                                                              Rajpipla
                                                                                                                                                      Dhasa
                                                                                                                 Jetpur                                          Vartej    Bhavnagar

                                                                                                                                                                                 Dahej     Bharuch
                                                                                                                                                                  Sihor                           BHARUCH           Netrang

                                                                          Porbandar                                                        Amreli         BHAVNAGAR                                                     Sagbara
                                                                                                                                                                               Alang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Khant
                                EARTHQUAKE EPICENTER                                                                Junagadh                                      Trapaj                              Kim

                                SEVERELY AFFECTED TALUKAS (SUB-DISTRICTS)                                                                                                     Gulf of Olpad           S U R A T  Mandvi
                                                                                                                                       A M R E L I                          Khambhat        Surat                     Songadh
                                AFFECTED TALUKAS (SUB-DISTRICTS)                                                                                                                                       Kadodara

                                NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                         J U N A G A D H                                                                   Sachin                    Vyara
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Palsana Bajipura                                        21°

                                OTHER ROADS
           21°                                                                                                                                                                           Navsari
                                RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                               THE DANGS
                                                                                                                                                  Mahuva
                                                                                                        Somnath        A M E R L I                                                                  NAVSARI         Bansda
                                SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                           Ahwa
                                                                                                                  Kodinar
                                DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                                                                                            Valsad
                                                                                    EARTHQUAKE DATA:                             Diu Island                                                             Dharampur                      MAHARASHTRA
                                STATE CAPITAL                                       Date of occurrence: 26/01/2001                                                                      DAMAN         VA L S A D
                                SELECTED TALUKA BOUNDARIES                          Time: 8:46 a.m.                                               A R A B I A N                            Daman      Vapi   Ambheti

                                DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                 Magnitude: 6.9 Richter scale
                                                                                    Latitude: 23.40 N.
                                STATE BOUNDARIES                                    Longitude: 70.28 E.                                                 S E A                                                                  0     35     70 Kilometers         IBRD
APRIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20°
                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                            Focus: 25 km. deep
                                                                                                                                                                                                             DADRA &                                                  31839
     2002  20°                                                                                                                                                                                            NAGAR HAVELI         0          35             70 Miles
             68°                                            69°                                   70°                                71°                             72°                              73°                             74°

