Report No. 923-IN
India                                            ~~~FIL E copy
India                                                                 t2cp
Appraisal of Integrated
Cotton Development Project
December 15, 1975
Agricultural Credit & Development Finance Company Division
South Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Abbreviations
MAU       -    Akola Agricultural University
ARDC      -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CDS       -    Cotton Development Service
CTRL      -    Cotton Technology Research Laboratory
GOI       -    Government of India
GOR       -    Government of Haryana
GOM       -    Government of Maharashtra
GOP       -    Government of Punjab
HAU       -    Haryana Agricultural University
HDAG      -    Haryana Department of Agriculture
IARI      -    Indian Agricultural Research Institute
ICAR      -    Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ICDC      -    Integrated Cotton Development Project
Coordinating Committee
MDAG      -    Maharashtra Department of Agriculture
NSC       -    National Seeds Corporation
PAR       -    Parbhani Agricultural University
PAU       -    Punjab Agricultural University
PMC       -    Project Management Committee
RAU       -    Rahuri Agricultural University
SCF       -    Seasonal Credit Fund
Exchange Rate
US$1.00    =   Rs 8.00
Seed Classification
(based on Indian nomenclature)
Breeder:        seed of high genetic purity produced by the plant breeder.
Foundation:    progeny of Breeder seed whose production is supervised by
the plant breeder.
Certified:      progeny of Foundation seed, produced to statutory quality-
control standards for distribution to farmers for commercial
production.



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....... ... .. .... .. ..  ... ....... . i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................   1
II.   BACKGROUND AND PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ..................   1
A.   General . . . . . . . ... 6. .....t. . .. 6. .. . . . . ....... .
B.   Cotton in the Indian Economy .....6 ...............   2
C.   Scope of the Project ...... .......................   6
III.   THE PROJECT AREAS ... *...*......................   7
A..  Areas .*...............................................   7
B.   Cotton Production and Supporting Services ........   8
C.   Research and Production of Breeder and
Foundation Seed . .......  10
D.   Seed Production and Quality Control         ..............  11
E.   Ginning and Pressing ......... . . . .. ..... ......... .  12
F.   Cottonseed Processing ............................  12
IV.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............**. ...  ...............  ..  13
A.  Objectives and Definition ........... ....      ......  13
B.   Detailed Features ......... .............. o... .. ... *   13
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing .....................  15
D.   Procurement and Disbursement .....................  17
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...................   . .     .  18
A .   Introduc tion . . . . . . . .*. .... .... . . . . . .. .. . . ..   18
B.   Project Coordination and Management ...*          ...  18
C.   Cotton Development Services ...... .. ...  .. ..       21
D.   Ginning and Cottonseed Processing  ............     .  23
E.  Seasonal Credit Fund .........  ..      ................  24
F.  Accounts and Audit .................. ...  ......... 25
VI.  BENEFITS AND RETURNS ....................... ... . ... ... ... .... 25
VII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................  27
Schedule A - Project Lending Terms and Conditions



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   The Role of Cotton in the Iiidian Economy
2.   Project Area Resources for Cotton Production
3.   Cotton Development Service
4.   Cotton Research in India and the Project Area
5.   The Cotton Ginning and Pressing Industry
6.   Cotton Seed Processing
7.   Financial Arrangements
8.   Organization and Management
9.   Project Costs
10. Implementation Schedule
11. Schedule of Estimated Disbursement of the IDA Credit
12. Benefits
MAP
IBRD 11130 - Integrated Cotton Development Project



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        India plants about one quarter of the world's cotton area but pro-
duces only about one-tenth of world output. The country produces about 1
million tons of lint and 2 million tons of cottonseed each year on about 8
million ha, using about 5% of the national gross cropped area and employing
about 15% of the national work force, including 13 million growers and over
5 million textile industry workers. Main problems are: (i) area planted,
yield and output have been relatively stagnant for the past 10 years; (ii)
staple lengths produced are not in balance with the requirements of the
market; (iii) the low yields are due to poor quality seed, failure to
control insects, and ineffective cultural practices; (iv) ginning facilities
are slow and inefficient; (v) less than half the cottonseed produced is
crushed, and much of it so poorly that the products have a low market value.
If all cottonseed production was efficiently processed, the current Indian
vegetable oil deficit of 150,000 tons could be eliminated.
ii.       Thus, almost every aspect of cotton production and processing can
be improved. This project is designed to pioneer key improvements in three
representative Indian cotton-growing areas, one each in Haryana and Putji b
(irrigated) and one in Maharashtra (rainfed). The total area involved would
be 183,000 ha, about 2% of India's total planted cotton area. If successful,
the techniques and institutions pioneered under the project could be extended
to other areas.
iii.      The project would demonstrate practical and effective means of
increasing cotton yields and maximizing by-product recovery from ginning and
cottonseed processing, and would be executed over 5 years. It would involve
the following components: (i) accelerated research to breed more suitable
and higher yielding cotton varieties; (ii) provision of improved seed and
more intensive insect and disease control services; (iii) modernization and
expansion of ginning and cottonseed processing; (iv) provision of a revolv-
ing fund for incremental seasonal credit to growers; and (iv) training
programs.
iv.       The objectives of the research component would be the systematic
breeding and introduction of higher-yielding varieties with improved market
characteristics. This would involve land development, laboratory construc-
tion, equipment supply and overseas staff training in the agricultural uni-
versities. Strengthened extension services in each project area would pro-
vide growers with advice on cultivation problems, plant protection and
marketing.  Office accommodation, staff transport, comunications and spray-
ing equipment would be provided. At ginneries the main emphasis would be
on improved equipment for better efficiency. Cottonseed processing facili-
ties would be augmented by modernization of existing factories and new
cooperative factories to process the cottonseed currently fed to livestock.
Project costs would include the financing of improvements and new facilities.



- ii -
A Seasonal Credit Fund would be set up to provide growers with the additional
credit needed for the improved seed, plant protection services, fertilizer,
and other inputs.
v.        Of the total project cost of about US$36 million, about one quarter
would support the cost of research and the Cotton Development Services, about
one-third would finance the Seasonal Credit Fund, and the balance would be
for ginning and processing. The foreign exchange component would be about
37%. ICB procurement procedures would generally not be appropriate because
of the character, amounts involved, location, spread of purchases over five
years, and need for spares and maintenance services. Adequate competition
would be assured through representation of foreign suppliers by local
agents, and the availability of the goods and services required from do-
mestic suppliers.
vi.       Project coordination would be achieved by a Coordinating Committee
at central government level, Project Management Committees in each state,
and an ad hoc area committee in each project area.  The Indian Council for
Agricultural Research would be responsible for coordinating and supervising
the research program carried out at agricultural universities in Haryana,
Maharashtra and Punjab. The Governments of Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab
would be responsible for agricultural supporting services and for certified
seed production and distribution in their project areas. Seed quality would
be assured through the state seeds quality control agencies. The Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation would be responsible for refinancing
loans made by commercial and cooperative banks for ginning and processing
facilities, and for seasonal credit to growers.
vii.      To assure higher cottonl yields, improve the quality of lint and
maximize recovery of cottonseed by-products, existing laws would be enforced
in each project area to provide: (i) control of varieties planted; (ii) com-
pulsory area-wide destruction or control of plant residues, weeds, insects
and diseases; (iii) prohibition of blending varieties when ginning, and la-
beling of each bale of cotton; antd (iv) processing of all cottonseed.
viii.     Major benefits would accrue through increased yields arising from
higher-yielding seeds, improved plant protection, better access to growers'
credit, and increased ginning and processing efficiency. Estimated incre-
mental output over twenty years would be about 0.8 million tons of higher
quality lint and 1.5 million tons of cottonseed with a gross value of US$750
million. At 1980 discounted prices, the foreign exchange earnings or savings
benefits would total about US$500 million. Agricultural beneficiaries would
include about 120,000 farm families and 200,000 landless laborers engaged
in production and harvesting. A further 2,000 workers would find employment
in ginning and processing. An estimated 65%' of the additional farm and
industry employment would benefit the poorest strata of the population.
Financial rates of return would be high at the farm level and satisfactory
to ginners and processors. Economic rates of return range from 10% for
ginners and 34% for cottonseed processing plants to more than 100% for



- iii -
cotton research, extension and production inputs. However, the project is
highly sensitive to any situation that would adversely affect cotton yields
and revenues, such-as weather or failure to obtain an effective control
of insects, or low lint prices and low ginning and processing margins.
ix.       Appropriate assurances having been obtained at negotiations the
project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$18 million, one half of
total project cost.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF AN INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      India's cotton research, production and marketing programs were
studied by a Bank Group pre-appraisal mission in October, 1972, and Febru-
ary, 1973. An appraisal mission, consisting of Messrs. D.D. Brown, A. Seager
and G. von Wallenberg (IDA) together with M. Faulkner, D. Kime and E. Roberts
(Consultants) visited India in March/April, 1974. The proposals of the
missions included the production of Certified cotton seed by state seed
development corporations, but subsequently the Government of India (GOI) and
IDA agreed that this component would be transferred to the National Seeds
Project, currently under appraisal by IDA. A follow-up mission consisting
of Messrs. D.D. Brown and A. Stoneham (IDA), and K. Anthony (Consultant)
visited India in April/May, 1975. Messrs. Brown and G. Stern reviewed the
Punjab component in October, 1975.
II.  BACKGROUND AND PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. General
2.01      The current annual growth rate of India's 585 million population
is 2.3%. The annual growth rate of its per capita income (US$110 in 1970) is
1.2%. GOI's development program during the Fifth Plan (1974-79) anticipates
an annual economic growth rate of 5.5%, but with greater emphasis on promoting
labor-intensive techniques and raising the productivity of subsistence farmers
and landless laborers.
2.02      About 70% of India's employed population is engaged in agricul-
ture: 44% as owner operators and 26% as landless laborers. The sector
accounts for about 45% of GNP and produces the raw material for the major
export commodities (jute, tea, leather, cotton goods and cashews). About
15% of the labor force is engaged in cotton production, cotton textile manu-
facturing and associated industries.
2.03      The current 10-year growth rate in agriculture is about 3.0%.
Compared with previous decades, increases in yield have contributed more
to growth than increases in cropped area. The higher yields have been
obtained by using more responsive and higher yielding seed varieties, with
more intensive use of fertilizers, plant protection, irrigation, mechanical
power and labor.



- 2 -
B. Cotton in the Indian Economy
Background
2.04      India plants about one. quarter oE the world's cotton area but
produces only about one tenth of world output. Area planted, yield and
output have been relatively stable for the past 10 years. The staple lengths
produced are not in balance with the requirements of the spinning mills.
The low yields are due to poor quality seed, failure to control cotton in-
sects and ineffective cultural practices. Ginning facilities are slow and
inefficient. Less than half the cottonseed produced is crushed, and much
of it so poorly that the products have a low market value. This project
has been formulated to improve the current shortcomings of the cotton pro-
duction and processing sector. Unless the present stagnation in cotton
production can be overcome, India must conltinue to import both lint and
vegetable oils. This imposes an unnecessary burden on the country's pre-
carious balance of payments position.
2.05      Cotton has been cultivated in India for at least 5,000 years.  The
role of cotton in the Indian economy is set: out in more detail in Annex 1.
India produces about 1 million tons of lint: (5.6 million bales of 180 kg
each) and 2 million tons of cottonseed each year on 8 million ha, using
about 5% of the national gross cropped area and employing about 15% of the
national work force, including 13 million growers and over 5 million textile
industry workers.
2.06      Two main types of cotton are growm:  American Upland (Gossypium
hirsutum) and Bengal Deshi (Gossypium arboreum).  Between 70 and 75% of
total production is hirsutum, and most of the remainder arboreum. Cotton
producing districts are shown in Map IBRD 11130. About half the hirsutum
is produced on irrigated land and averages 320 kg lint per ha, while the
balance on rainfed land averages about 145 kg per ha. Arboreum varieties
are usually grown on light soils under sparse rainfed conditions and average
about 70 kg lint per ha. Hirsutium varietiets usually perish or produce less
than arboreums under these conditions. Lint from most of the hirsutum va-
rieties range from 22 to 26 mm in staple length and are used for textile
manufacture. To balance the requirements of the textile industry, more
longer staple cotton is required. The arboreum varieties tend to have a
shorter staple length, and having good resilience to pressure, are mostly
used for carpeting and bedding.
2.07      Over nine-tenths of the cotton area is planted to varieties re-
leased by the research agencies 15 to 25 years ago. Depending on the variety,
most cottons require from 180 to 270 days to mature, inordinately long by
modern standards. Most plants are tall with many side branches, are grown
with 20,000 to 25,000 plants per ha, and compare unfavorably with modern high-
yielding dwarf varieties grown elsewhere with 100,000 or more plants per ha
and yields of up to 2,500 kg lint per ha under good cultural practices. Given
adequate irrigation or rainfall these traditional varieties show a low response



to fertilizers. The application of more than 30 or 40 kgs nitrogen per ha
fails to increase the yield and causes the plant to lodge. On some soils
the yield does not increase if phosphate and/or potash is applied.  Varieties
with better response to fertilizers are necessary before yields can be
improved.
Research
2.08      Annex 4 gives details of cotton research in India and the project
areas. Cotton research is being carried out under the All-India Coordinated
Cotton Improvement Project through the Indian Council for Agricultural
Research (ICAR), which supports about 30 cotton research station and the
Cotton Technology Research Laboratory (CTRL) in Bombay. ICAR also supports
cotton research projects through state agricultural universities. Research
objectives include the development-of varieties with the following charac-
teristics: (i) higher yields; (ii) lower maturity time (less than 180 days);
(iii) higher planting densities; (iv) better response to fertilizers; (v) more
resistant to insects and diseases; (vi) longer fiber staple lengths (28 to
30 mm); and (vii) improved textile qualities. The new varieties are likely
to be mostly hirsutums more resistant to insects and with higher oil contents.
2.09      During the last five or six years over ten new varieties, including
two hybrids, have been evolved that meet some, but not all, of the desired
objectives. None of the new varieties are adapted to rainfed conditions or
to irrigated conditions in northern India. Thus additional research in cot-
ton breeding and cultural practices is essential.
Seed Production and Distribution
2.10      Less than 3% of the cotton area is planted with genetically pure
seed, free from seed borne insects and diseases (Annex 4). The National
Seeds Corporation (NSC) produces and distributes less than 600 of the 150,000
tons of seed required for India's annual cotton crops. Production of seed
to meet international quality standards for Certified seed is difficult and
expensive because of the ease of cross-pollination in the field and the
necessity of controlling bollworms. High quality seed of improved varieties
must be readily available in all cotton-growing areas for significant in-
creases in productivity. This requires the development of an appropriate
cotton seed production and distribution program. Such a program is included
in the National Seeds Project now under IDA appraisal (para 3.23).
Plant Protection
2.11      Less than 5% of India's cotton area receives effective plant
protection. Major insect pests that reduce potential yields include jassids,
and three types of bollworm; spiny, spotted and pink. The bollworm carries
over from one crop to the next imbedded in the cotton seed and stalks. The
crop area is thus infected before and during planting, so that even the



-4-
potential yields of the existing poor qualit:y seeds are not realized. A
community wide field sanitation program that: destroys the hibernating boil-
worm pupae is essential to improve productivity, and would reduce the cost
and improve the effectiveness of the spray control programs.
2.12      To control jassids and bollworms the cotton plants must be sprayed
with appropriate chemicals every 10 to 15 darys during the growing season.
With the present long-maturing varieties, the number of sprays required is
unnecessarily high and costly. It is difficult, and at times impossible,
to obtain proper plant coverage with existing hand-operated or back-carried
equipment because of the tall bushy plants. Control measures to be effective
must be applied to all cotton growing in a compact area, and as the eggs
hatch into larvae. Apart from the need to evolve 150-160 day medium dwarf
and medium staple varieties (para 2.08) with greater disease resistance, a
more effective plant protection program and more equipment are required.
2.13      A major component of effective insect and disease control is the
compulsory enforcement of an area-wide plant protection program that would
require destruction of all plant residues, crushing of all cottonseed after
ginning, treatment of all cottonseed in storage, and application of appropriate
and timely sprays. Under Indian c:onditions, such a program when combined
with Certified disease resistant seed of existing varieties, fertilizer and
other inputs could result in yield increases of 50 to 100%.
Extension Services
2.14      State agricultural departments are responsible for the extension
services. In 1971, GOI initiated an intensive cotton production program in
selected cotton districts. Cotton production technicians assisted the com-
munity development extension organLization to promote campaigns to motivate
cotton growers to use better seeds, more fertilizer and more sprays. In
some localities the campaign was supported by the local ginners and spin-
ners. However, the program was only marginally successful, except where
seed from the new improved varieties was available and plant protection
campaigns reached most cotton grorers.
Ginning and Pressing
2.15      The potential industrial qualities of lint for textile manufacture
are determined by the inherited characteristics of the variety. The achieve-
ment of this potential is determined partly 'by the quality of the ginning,
which separates the fiber from the seed.
2.16      Roller and saw gins are in general use.  Over three-fourths of
the roller gins are out of date or obsolete. Most are at least 30 years
old, and operate without pre-cleaners and recent equipment design improvements.
New roller gins manufactured in India are of the old design without improve-
ments. Lint processed by such equipment contains 3 to 6% of unginned seeds,



- 5 -
hulls, leaves and dirt that must be removed at the spinning mill. Indian
mills expect this poor quality lint and are equipped to remove these admix-
tures. However, pre-cleaners can be installed at ginneries to remove them
as a part of the ginning process and with a saving in cost.
2.17      Saw gins are equipped with pre-cleaners, but to operate efficiently
the saws (which cost relatively little) must be replaced at regular inter-
vals. This is not done in India because of import licensing restrictions and
high tariffs (para 4.11). A gin operating with dull or mishaped saws produces
lint with a high nep 1/ count. The same lot of kapas when ginned on a saw
gin rather than a roller gin will produce 3 to 6% less lint (due to removal
of admixtures), but saw-ginned lint has an offsetting higher market value,
unless the nep count is high. Saws need precision sharpening each day and
replacement after ginning 10,000 to 12,000 bales of lint.
2.18      Most of the presses used to bale lint before shipment are over
40 years old, and many require replacement. They are currently not made in
India and imports are restricted (para 4.11). New presses are necessary to
improve efficiency. A further cause of the poor quality lint is the lack of
covered storage at most ginneries to protect the kapas, lint and seed from
rain, dust and intense sunlight. Ginning and baling fees are regulated in
most states. The ginners perform these services for the buyer of the kspas.
Usually fees are calculated to yield a 6.75% return on investment capital.
With this low rate of return there is little incentive to replace antiquated
equipment or follow procedures that assure quality lint.
Cottonseed Processing
2.19      Of the 2 million tons of cottonseed produced annually, about 55%
is fed directly to livestock, 40% is processed into cottonseed oil and cake
and 5% used for planting (Annex 6). Feeding cottonseed direct to livestock
is a waste of human food and other resources. Formulated feed made from
deoiled cottonseed cake would be more digestible to livestock and of higher
nutritional value. Processing of most of the 0.8 million tons of cottonseed
is inefficient. Most expeller equipment and procedures in use do not remove
the linters and hulls, or heat the crushed seed to deactivate the gossypol 2/.
The resulting cottonseed cake contains all of the linters, hulls and gossypol,
and about half the original oil. Most of it is exported, and edible vege-
table oil imported in its stead, representing an unnecesary foreign exchange
liability. This type of oil cake can be deoiled by the solvent extraction
process, but unless the linters and hulls are first removed, the resulting
oil is of poor quality and low value, and can only be used for soapstock,
while the linters and hulls are wasted.
1/  Nep:  pin-head sized broken particles of broken seed coat attached to
the lint, that interfere with spinning, weaving and dyeing.
2/   Gossypol:  a toxic vegetable alkaloid pigment contained in cottonseed.



- 6 -
2.20      Modern processing technology maximizes production of valuable by-
products from cottonseed by cleaning the seed, delinting, decorticating to
remove the hulls, cooking the meats to remove the gossypol and preparing for
oil separation by an expeller, followed by solvent extraction. The by-pro-
ducts (linters, hulls, crude cottonseed oil, and cottonseed cake and meal)
can all be marketed directly or processed into other products. India's
existing solvent plant capacity would need to be more than doubled to process
the current production of vegetable oils, including cottonseed. Price regu-
lation designed to minimize consumer costs for vanaspati 1/ and to maximize
export of non-deoiled cottonseed cake have restrained developmental invest-
ment in the industry.
C. Scope of the Project
2.21      Every aspect of cotton production and processing in India can be
improved. This project would promote such imaprovement in three compact
cotton-growing areas; one each in Haryana and Punjab (irrigated) and the other
in Maharashtra (rainfed). The total area involved would be about 183,000 ha;
2% of India's total planted cotton area. It should therefore be regarded
as a pilot project, which if successful, couLd be extended to other areas.
Map IBRD 11130 shows the cotton areas in Indiia, and the project areas in
Haryana and Maharashtra. The project area in Punjab adjoins the project
area in Haryana.
2.22      The project includes improved reseairch to evolve cotton varieties.
None of the new varieties (para 2.09) are adapted to the soil, water and
climatic conditions of the project areas so t:hat further research is re-
quired. The project would finance improved cotton research capabilities at
the agricultural universities in the three st:ates. Improved seed production
and distribution is essential and would be the responsibility of the National
Seeds Project (para 3.23). Effective plant protection programs are also vital
to project success, so that the project would provide plant protection services
through a consolidated section of the extension services, including the neces-
sary equipment and legal authority to carry out the programs. The increased
requirements of growers for seasonal credit wrould be met through a special
fund. There would be sufficient production cof kapas in the project areas to
support viable new gins and oilseed extraction plants and some improvements in
existing plants, and these would be included.
1/   Vanaspati:  edible vegetable oil products.



III. THE PROJECT AREAS (Annex 2)
A. Areas
Haryana
3.01      The cotton production area would be a compact region of about
110,000 ha of irrigated cotton in the Sirsa District. It contains about
460,000 ha, 350 villages and 56,000 cotton growers. Rainfall averages 330 mm
a year. The area is irrigated from the Bhakra Dam irrigation and power
complex, controlled by a national board. Under an interstate agreement
Haryana should receive enough water for about 60% of its net cultivated
command area, but supply is frequently uncertain.  About two-fifths of the
area has a sweet groundwater aquifer, another two-fifths has water of doubt-
ful quality, while in the remainder the water is saline. Cotton is planted
on about three-fourths of the irrigated area from May to December, and wheat
from November to April.  Cotton yields currently average about 900 kg/ha
kapas, but are sensitive to the availability of irrigation water and to
insect infestation.
Mlaharashtra
3.02      The cotton production area would be in Amraoti District, which is
entirely rain-fed. Although the district has over 700,000 ha net cropped
area, of which just over one-half is planted to cotton, the project area
would be a compact 50,000 ha within it, and cover about 50,000 farms. Its
precise boundaries would be drawn by the Maharashtra Project Management
Committee (para 5.03) with the assistance of the Akola Agricultural University
(AMU). Rainfall is highly variable, ranging from 550 to 1,400 mm a year,
and averaging 785 mm; over 95% falling from mid-June to end-October. Cotton
yields currently average 320 kg/ha kapas, but are sensitive to rainfall and
its intensity, and to insect attacks. Soils are medium to heavy black clays,
with topography flat to gently rolling.
Punj ab
3.03      About 14,000 farmers in 70 villages operate about 56,000 ha in
Muktsar Block, in Faridkot District. About 23,000 ha of irrigated land in
this Block would be the project area for cotton production. Irrigation
comes from the Bhakra and Beas systems, and from about 700 tubewells. Rain-
fall averages about 285 mm a year. About half the holdings in the Block
exceed 2 ha and cover 88% of the land. Cotton is planted in late April
and harvested from October to January. Yields average 1,250 kg/ha kapas.
Soils are deep alluvial sandy loams.



--8-
B. Cotton Production and Supporting Services
Sirsa
3.04      Cultivation:  Two varieties are us,ed:  320-F (hirsutum) on 70% ,f
the area and Deshi G-27 (arboreum) on the remainder. 320-F is the dominant
variety on over 1 million ha in India (Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan) and
another 1 million in Pakistan. G-27 is planited where irrigation water is not
assured. The Haryana Department of Agriculture (HDAG) procures cotton seed
from the Hissar Agricultural University (HAU) for multiplication on its seed
farm at Sirsa.  This seed is again multiplied under contract with progressive
farmers. The kapas from contract growers is ginned at commercial ginneries;
this plus seed procured in the market is dist:ributed by HDAG and by cotton
marketers. The seed lacks genetic purity and is heavily infested with boll-
worm pupae and seed borne diseases. Because of the low response of these
varieties to fertilizer under conditions of uncertain irrigation water
supply and inadequate plant protection, an average of less than 5 kg/ha
of fertilizer nutrients is currently used.
3.05      Extension Service:  HDAG operates a special cotton extension service
in the project area. A Joint Director of Agriculture at Sirsa and another
at Fatehabad direct a staff of Sub-Inspectors (matriculates) posted at the
rate of one per 1,800 cotton growers. They atlso have the services of cotton
production specialists. The extension service would require expansion and
strengthening for the project (Annex 3).
3.06      Plant Protection:  Measures promoted by the Haryana extension
service include the use of various types of back-pack sprayers, and aerial
spraying. While the largest area has been covered by aerial spraying, its
use is restrained by the trees and electric lines along field borders, short-
age of equipment and trained operat:ors. The use of back-pack pump sprayers
has also been restrained by the shortage of equipment and labor, and by their
inability to operate efficiently in the tall bushy cotton. No attempt has
been made to educate cotton growers; on the value of field sanitation, mainly
the destruction by early March of all crop residues.  Burning is the most
effective method, but cotton stalks are an important source of fuel for low-
income families in the villages. The project would strengthen the plant
protection service and require an eiffective field sanitation program.
3.07      Agricultural Credit:  Presently, most seasonal credit requirements
of project area farmers provided by institutional credit sources comes from
400 primary societies that are refinanced by the District Central Cooperative
Bank at Sirsa.  Commercial banks provide a smull proportion of the total.
Major problems of the primary societes include high loan overdues, over 35%
of demand, 1/ and ceiling rates on lending per borrower at levels considerably
below current cash costs (Annex 7).
1/   "Demand" is defined as principal and interest falling due during the
financial year plus amounts unpaid from previous ypars. "Overdues"
are the sums still outstanding at the end of that financial year.



-9-
Amraoti
3.08      Cultivation:  Two main varieties of hirsutum are used:  L-147 on
about 55% of the area and B-1007 on about 23%. Less than 5% of the area is
planted with seed from the Maharashtra Department of Agriculture (MDAC);
each grower saves his own seed or buys it from a ginnery or marketer. Seed
quality is very low.
3.09      Cotton is planted in June before the monsoon rains start.  Farmers
usually plant 6 to 10 rows of cotton followed by 3 to 4 rows of jowar (a
grain sorghum), and then repeat the sequence. This interplanting reduces
the risk of a complete crop failure and provides foodgrain for the casual
laborers who weed and harvest the cotton. Less than 5 kg/ha of fertilizer
nutrients is currently used, and less than 5% of the area is treated for
the control of bollworms and jassids.
3.10      Extension Service:  As in Sirsa, a special cotton extension serv-
ice operates in Amraoti under the District Panchayat. MDAG and AAU provide
technical training. A Panchayat staff officer is in charge. At the Block
level one Agricultural Extension Officer and Sub-Inspectors are posted at
the ratio of 1 per 1,600 cotton growers. Under the project MDAG would be
responsible for the extension service, which would be strengthened with
up-graded and added staff and equipment.
3.11      Agricultural Credit:  The District Central Cooperative Bank in
Amroati has 30 branches, serving some 700 primary societies. The commercial
banks provide about 5% of the institutional credit to farmers. Overdues
of the primary societies currently average about 30% of demand.
Faridkot
3.12      Cultivation:  The District grows about 100,000 ha hirsutum (mostly
in the southern 2/3 of the District), and about 50,000 ha arboreum in the
northern part. Production exceeds 180,000 tons kapas that is ginned into
325,000 bales of lint and 125,000 tons cottonseed. LSS, a 270-day medium
staple variety, is planted on about 70% of the hirsutum area which includes
Muktsar Block. 320-F and Bikaneri Narma hirsutums are also used; Bikaneri
Narma because it matures in 145 days in time for double cropping with wheat.
3.13      Production Inputs:  Breeder cotton seed is produced at the Muktsar
and Abohar field research stations. Foundation seed is distributed to pro-
gressive cotton growers in the area and multiplied for general distribution.
Most of the seed is he-vily infested with pink bollworm and mixed with other
varieties. Fertilizer is applied at the rate of about 20 kg/ha. An aggres-
sive plant protection program, mostly aerial spraying, has covered 90% of
the 1975 cotton crop with 1 to 2 of the 10 to 15 applications needed on
270-day cotton.
3.14      Extension Service:  The GOI Intensive Cotton Development Program
has operated in the district since 1971-72. The additional agricultural
staff have trained and supervised growers and commercial agro-aviation operators



- 10 -
to spray cotton when needed. Problems of implementation included the high
cost of applying 10 to 15 sprayings and the difficulty of pin-pointing when
and where to spray and what to use. The project would concentrate on finding
answers to these problems.
3.15      Agricultural Credit:  The District Central Cooperative Bank
operates with branches in each Block and serves all the primary societies.
In 1975, the maximum lending rate for irrigated cotton was Rs 1,000 per ha.
Overdues to the primary societies and to the Central Cooperative Bank average
about 40% of demand.
C. Research and the Production of Breeder
and Foundat-ion Seed (Annex 4)
Haryana
3.16      Research and the product:ion of Breeder and Foundation seed is the
responsibility of the Haryana Agricultural University at Hissar. Research
has consisted of trials on the fer tilizer responsiveness of G. arboreum
varieties, time and methods of applying insecticides and weedicides, eco-
nomics of the use of irrigation water, and general cultural practices. Cur-
rently five officers are assigned part or fuLl time to this work. They are
also attempting to reconstitute genetically pure seed of existing varieties
to be used for production of Breeder and Foundation seed.
3.17      HAU seed is multiplied on HDAG's s,eed farm at Sirsa.  HAU's land
and water resources at Hissar are not adapteid for research on G. hirsutum
varieties or for the production of Breeder aid Foundation seed for the proj-
ect and at the same time produce seed for the other kharif crops. It is pro-
posed that HDAG's seed farm and the adjacent Indian Agricultural Research
Institute (IARI) research farm at Sirsa would be transferred to HAU so that
the resources would be adequate fc,r project research and seed production. Pro-
vision for the transfers has been included in the project (para 5.08).
3.18      IARI operates a cotton production research station at Sirsa to
breed and test new prospective cotton varieties and to field test various
cultural practices. The station has identified pink bollworm and jassids
as the most destructive insects in the project area. It reports yield in-
creases of 300 to 500 kg/ha kapas when the cotton is sprayed 6 to 8 times
during the growing season.
Maharas tra
3.19      Three agricultural universities share responsibility for cotton
research and the production of Breeder and Foundation seed: Akola (AAU),
Rahuri (RAU) and Parbhani (PAR). Due to agro-climatic conditions AAU studies
G. hirsutum, PAR G. arboreum rainfed varietiets and RAU irrigated varieties.
They operate four field stations, and assist with training of extension
workers. Staff, buildings and laboratory resources are inadequate for an



- 11 -
aggressive cotton research program. The three universities have sufficient
crop land for cotton research and the production of Breeder and Foundation
seed of the varieties applicable to their agro-climatic regions, although
much of the land needs further development. Additional staff and equipment
would be required to support the research and seed components of the project,
and their provision has been included in the project (para 4.07).
P unj ab
3.20      The agricultural university at Ludhiana (PALI) is responsible for
crop research and the production of Breeder and Foundation seed. Cotton
research is performed at Muktsar, Abohar, Ludhiana, and Jullundar. Existing
varieties have certain weaknesses that a strengthened research program
would try to correct; heavy and bushy vegetative growth when grown on fertile
adequately watered soil that results in light flowering and boll setting.
Fiber lengths and spinning counts are low relative to market demand, which
is for the longer staple higher spinning count cotton. The area is heavily
infested with pink bollworm. One variety, now in its fourth year of field
trials at Muktsar, shows promise of superior lint qualities and yields 25
to 40% higher than LSS, 320F and Bikaneri Narma. The project would provide
additional staff and facilities to strengthen PAU's cotton research and seed
production operations.
D. Seed Production and Quality Control
3.21      HDAG procures enough commercial grade cotton seed from progressive
growers and ginneries to plant from one-quarter to one-third of its cotton
area each year. In Maharashtra and Punjab, less than 2% of the cotton area
is planted with seed produced under cultural and seed handling procedures
that provide any substantive effort to ensure genetic purity and freedom
from pink bollworm.
3.22      Technical conditions required to produce cotton seed true to
variety specifications include: (i) field isolation to prevent cross polli-
nation; (ii) heavy roguing to remove off-type plants; (iii) plant protection
from bollworms, jassids, other insects and diseases to reduce seed infestation;
(iv) separate ginning of the kapas; and (v) delinting and fumigation of the
seed to destroy any remaining seed borne insects and diseases. Such conditions
are not at present adequately observed and enforced at the universities and
in the field, so that any new variety introduced would quickly degenerate
to the ad hoc mixture produced in each area. The advantages of a high
yielding variety of cotton cannot be maximized until a competent seed pro-
duction, processing and distribution system is introduced to multiply the
Breeder and Foundation seed into Certified seed.



- 12 -
3.23      The proposed National Seeds Project 1/ currently under appra sal
would establish seed production, processing and distribution programs through
state seed corporations in several states, including Haryana, Maharashtra and
Punjab, for cereal, cotton and other seeds. Farmers under contract to the
seed corporations would produce C,ertified seed to be processed in the cr-rpo-
rations' own plant. Quality conitrol would be a state government respornibility,
enforced through suitable legislation. It follows that the development of
certified cotton seed production in Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab through
the National Seeds Project is an essential prerequisite for the success of
this project. Suitable safeguarcls to ensure adequate Certified seeds for the
project areas have been included in this project (para 5.15).
E.  Ginning and Pressing  (Annex 5)
3.24      In Sirsa and Faridkot Districts, roller gins process about one-third
of the kapas, saw gins the balance. In Amraoti, only roller gins are used.
Ginning capacity in the areas is adequate for current production, but the
existing roller gins need pre-cleaners, and saw gins need a regular supply of
saws and saw sharpeners. To the extent thal; the project increases cotton
output, new ginneries would be needed. New presses would also be needed to
replace antiquated equipment and to bale inc:remental output.
F. Cottonseed Processing (Annex 6)
3.25      In recent years the average annual output of the ginneries in
Sirsa and Hissar has been about 105,000 tons of cottonseed. However, less
than 35,000 tons has been processed by the expeller process, which recovers
only about half the available oil (as a low quality product) and none of the
linters and hulls, while leaving t:he toxic gossypol in the cake. The remainder
of the commercial grade cottonseecd, at least 65,000 tons, has been fed direct
to livestock. There is thus already a need for the modernization of existing
plants and for additional capacity to process the cottonseed currently fed
to livestock. With the additional production from the project, further new
capacity would be required, and has been included in the project (para 4.05).
3.26      In Amraoti, most of the current 81,000 tons of cottonseed produced
in the project area is processed locally. The expeller-type mills in the
area can process around 150,000 tons annually, but crushed only about 75,000
tons in 1973/74 due to the constraints of GOil's monopoly procurement program.
About one-third of the mills use some cleaning, delinting and dehulling
1/   This proposed project is known as the India Seeds II Project (the
first being Terai Seeds - Credit 614-IN).



- 13 -
equipment. However all need major improvements in sanitation and maintenance
procedures, together with improved or new equipment for delinting, dehulling
and meats preparation. Two or three have the potential for adding solvent
extraction and/or vanaspati processing equipment. These items have been
included in the project (para 4.05).
IV. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Objectives and Definition
Objectives
4.01      The major objective of the project would be to demonstrate in three
districts (Sirsa and Faridkot irrigated, and Amraoti rainfed) practical and
effective means of increasing cotton yields and maximizing by-product recovery
from ginning and cottonseed processing. Successful experience in these areas
could be adapted and applied to other cotton producing areas. Substantial
increases in cotton production, lint quality and by-product recovery would
help to eliminate India's need for lint and vegetable oil imports, and in-
crease the availability of cotton products for Indian consumers and export.
Definition
4.02      The project would finance over five years at a cost of about US$36
million on 183,000 ha in three project areas, four integrated development
components for improved cotton production    (i) accelerated research to
breed more suitable and higher yielding c.tton varieties and devise improved
cultural practices; (ii) improved cotton production facilities for the
120,000 cotton growers, including the use of Certified seed, and more in-
tensive insect and disease control, through strengthened extension services;
(iii) modernization and improvement of existing facilities and new units
in the ginning and processing sectors; (ilv) provision of seasonal production
credit to cotton growers, incremental to that already available from insti-
tutional sources; and (v) technical assistance, and training at all levels
in each project component.
B. Detailed Features
Research, Breeder and Foundation Seed Prx_;ction
4.03      Pesearch, supervised by ICAR and executed by the agricultural
universities, would be directed towards the breeding and introduction of
higher yielding short season (150-160 days) varieties of a compact plant
type with acceptable staple length and textile qualities that fit into the
multiple cropping irrigated areas of northern India and are easier to manage



- 14 -
in the rainfed areas of Maharashtra and other regions. The new varieties
would be more resistant to insects and diseases. Operational research would
field test tentative results, including improved cultural practices in the
project areas. The universities involved would be responsible for the pro-
duction of Breeder and Foundation seeds of the recommended varieties for
multiplication into Certified seed by the State Seed Corporations and
others for distribution in the project area and elsewhere. ICAR and the
universities would also assist the extension services in each area plan the
extension and plant protection programs and train staff and cotton growers.
Details are in Annexes 3 and 4.
Improved Cotton Production Facilities
4.04      The cornerstone of the effort to improve cotton production facili-
ties would be the strengthening of the exist:ing extension services through
the formation of a Cotton Development Service (CDS) in each project area
and intensive training of its staff, together with the provision of seasonal
credit to cotton growers. The CDS would provide growers with advice on
cultivation practices and problems, a plant protection service to protect
cotton against insects and diseases from pret-sowing to marketing, and a
marketing service to improve markets and marketing arrangements for the
kapas, lint and cottonseed produced. Detailed proposals are in paras 5.10
to 5.14, and Annex 3.
Improved Ginning and Processing Facilities
4.05      The project would finance replacement saws and saw sharpeners
for existing saw gins, precleaners for existing roller gins, improvement of
existing gins, and new gins and presses as required to meet expanded pro-
duction. Cottonseed processing facilities in Sirsa and Amraoti would be
augmented by improvements and modernization in existing factories and by
provision of new facilities through the cooperative system to process the
150,000 tons of cottonseed currently fed direct to livestock. Details are
in Annexes 5 and 6.
Seasonal Credit for Cotton Growers
4.06      A Seasonal Credit Fund (SCF) would assist growers to obtain their
additional credit needs for Certified seed, plant protection services, fer-
tilizers and other production inputs. Without the project, these costs
average Rs 1,305 per ha in Sirsa, Rs 1,640 in Muktsar and Rs 595 in Amraoti,
with an overall average of Rs 1,153. Cooperatives and scheduled banks
currently finance about one third of the growers at an average rate of
Rs 803 per ha. The project's compulsory requirements to use Certified
seed and plant protection services; would witlhin five years increase input
costs to Rs 2,090 per ha in Sirsa, Rs 2,640 in Muktsar and Rs 1,170 in
Amraoti. Almost 67% of the growers are expected to use seasonal credit, at
an average rate of about Rs 1,908 per ha.  ARDC would establish and manage
SCF. Background to seasonal credit is given in Annex 7.



- 15 -
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.07      Estimated project cost and foreign exchange requirements are:
For-                 For-          Foreign
Local eign Total Local eign Total Exchange
-----Rs Million        -US$ Million---        %
A. Government Agencies
1.  ICAR
Administration and
Training                1.6   --       1.6   0.2   -       0.2      --
Technical Assistance    0.8    6.4    7.2   0.1    0.8   0.9          89
2.  Universities
Haryana                   4.8    2.4    7.2   0.6    0.3   0.9         33
Maharashtra              15.2    8.8   24.0   1.9    1.1   3.0        37
Punjab                    2.4    1.6    4.0   0.3    0.2   0.5        40
3.  Cotton Development
Services
Haryana                   9.6    1.6   11.2   1.2    0.2   1.4        14
Maharashtra               7.2    0.8    8.0   0.9    0.1   1.0        10
Punjab                    1.6    0.8    2.4   0.2    0.1   0.3        33
Sub-total
(1, 2, & 3)           43.2   22.4   65.6   5.4    2.8   8.2         34
4. Contingencies
Physical                  3.2    1.6    4.8   0.4    0.2   0.6        33
Price                     5.6    3.2    8.8   0.7    0.4   1.1        36
Sub-total (4)          8.8    4.8   13.6   1.1    0.6   1.7         35
Total A                52.0   27.2   79.2   6.5    3.4   9.9        34
B. On-Lending
5. Ginning                   16.0   15.2   31.2   2.0    1.9   3.9        49
6. Cottonseed Processing   41.6   22.4   64.0   5.2    2.8   8.0           35
7. SCF                       52.8   27.2   80.0   6.6    3.4  10.0         34
Sub-total
(5, 6 & 7)           110.4  :64.8  175.2  13.8    8.1  21.9         37
8. Contingencies
Physical                   4.8    5.6   10.4   0.6    0.7   1.3        54
Price                     13.6    9.6   23.2   1.7    1.2   2.9        41
Sub-total (8)         18.4   15.2   33.6   2.3    1.9   4.2         45
Total B              128.8   80.0  208.8  16.1   10.0  26.1         38
C.  Grand Total                 180.8  107.2  288.0  22.6   13.4  36.0         37



- 16 -
Costs are based on March 1975 prices. Physical contingencies have been
costed at 10% of civil works and equipment, and price contingencies at
annual rates varying between 8% and 16% for the foreign exchange compo-
nent, and at 10% for the local component. Detailed costs are in Annexes 5,
6 and 9.
4.08      Finance to cover the total cost of Rs 288 million (US$36 million
equivalent) would come from the following sources:
Govern-    Ultimate    Lending
mentsL-   Borrowers   Agencies      ARDC      Total      IDA
Rs M   %   Rs M   2;  Rs M   %   RS M    Z   Rs M   RS M   %
A. Government
Agencies
ICAR         8.8  100    -    -    -             -     -    8.8    6.8   74
Univer-
sities    35.2  100    -    -    -       -     -     -   35.2   15.0   43
CDS         21.6  100    -    -    -             -      -   21.6    4.7   21
Contin-
gencies   13.6  100    -    -    -    _        -     -   13.6    4.5   33
Total A     79.2  100    -    -                  -      -   79.2   31.0   39
B. On-Lending
Ginning       -    -    7.8   25   4.7   15   18.7   60  31.2   14.0   45
Processing    -    -   16.0   25   9.6   15   38.4   60  64.0   28.8   45
SCF           -    -      -    -    -      -    80.0  100  80.0   60.0   75
Contingencies -    -    4.6   14   2.7    8   26.3   78  33.6   10.2   30
Total B       -    -   28.4   14  17.0    8  163.4   78 208.8  113.0   54
C. Grand Total 79.2   27  28.4   10  17.0    6  163.4   57 288.0  144.0   50
D. US$ M Equiv. 9.9         3.5         2.1        20.5        36.0   18.0   50
/a   GOI, GOH, GOM and GOP.
4.09      The IDA Credit of US$18.0 million (Rs 144 million) would finance
50% of project costs. About 22% would support the costs of research and
CDS through the government agencies, and 42% would finance growers' incre-
mental credit needs, while the resl: would supply 75% of ARDC financing
for ginning and processing. It would cover the whole of the foreign exchange
component of the project, plus about 21% of local costs.  The IDA Credit
would be on standard terms to GOI. GOI suppo;rt for GOk, GOM and GOP agencies
would be part of their development financing. Onward lending terms through
ARDC to ultimate borrowers are set out in Schedule A. The interest rates
therein are in line with the prevailing interest rate structure in India, and



- 17 -
spreads are reasonable considering the risks involved and the cost of
appraisal and supervision of individual loans. It would be a condition of
effectiveness that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, had been
executed between GOI and ARDC.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
4.10      International competitive bidding procedures would not be appropriate
for this project because of the character, amounts involved, location, spread,
and need for spares and maintenance services. Civil works and equipment,
amounting to about US$5 million 1/ for the various government agencies, would
be procured through local competitive bidding procedures, which have been
reviewed by IDA and are satisfactory. The civil works, consisting of hundreds
of small items including spares, would be procured over five years by a dozen
different government agencies. There is adequate availability of the items
required and satisfactory competition, including representation of foreign
suppliers by local agents. GOI would advise IDA (for prior review and comment)
of the bidding and evaluation procedures to be used for civil works and bulked
equipment orders expected to exceed US$50,000 before tariff duties and taxes.
IDA would also be kept informed of procurement procedures used for all civil
works and equipment orders below US$50,000.
4.11      Individual ginners and cottonseed processors would purchase civil
works and equipment (totalling about US$12 million 1/) under local competi-
tive bidding procedures that would be supervised by ARDC. The procedures
would be sent to IDA for review and comment. In every case where an individ-
ual loan exceeded US$500,000, ARDC would provide IDA with the investment fea-
sibility report, including procurement proposals, for prior review and com-
ment. Borrowers' main requirements for equipment would involve compatibility
with existing installations, and prompt and effective after sales service
(including training, maintenance and spares) that only a domestically based
supplier can provide adequately. Both foreign and local manufacturers are
represented by local agents, and competition is satisfactory. GOI has agreed
that when any contract for the supply of imported goods was concluded, it
would immediately approve the necessary import licenses and allocate the
foreign exchange required.
4.12      Loans from SCF to finance production inputs would be to individual
cotton growers and small in amount. Growers would use the proceeds to buy
Certified seed supplied to retailers by the state seed corporations, to
pay for plant protection services and to purchase other inputs from local
sources, where there is a reasonable choice at competitive prices. About
1/   Excluding contingencies.



- 18 -
US$10 million would be available t'hrough SCF for these purposes. All Govern-
ment and institutions involved have agreed that procurement would be in
accordance with the above procedures.
Disbursement
4.13      IDA disbursements would 'be in accordance with the following sched-
ule: (i) 50% of the cost of civil works and equipment incurred by ICAR, the
universities and CDS (US$2.5 million); (ii) 100% of the costs of consultants
and overseas training (US$0.8 million); (iii) 75% of ARDC disbursements for
loans to ginners and processors (US$5.4 million); and (iv) 75% of ARDC
disbursements made through SCF (US$7.5 million). An unallocated amount of
US$1.8 million would be held for contingencies. Disbursements under (i)
and (ii) would be made against appropriate documentation from GOI. Disburse-
ments under (iii) and (iv) would be made against certification by ARDC.
Documents would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by
ARDC and be available for inspection by IDA dluring project supervision.
Savings in any category could be transferred to any other category with
IDA's approval. Any unexpended funds would be cancelled. A schedule of
disbursements is in Annex 11.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Introduction
5.01      Project success will depesnd to a large extent on the degree of
cooperation between the main institutional participants, and this calls for
strong coordinating committees at GOI level, and within the participating
states. The key to successful implementation at the grower level will be the
build-up of a strong and competent CDS in the project areas, capable of
persuading growers to use the CertLfied seed and plant protection measures
that are essential to ensure increased yields. To be successful a crop ex-
tension program of this type must offer worthwhile improvements - a new
variety and/or management practices that can be seen by growers to be in
their interest to adopt. A sound research component is thus essential for
the continued success of such a program.  The SCF will assist growers ob-
tain the increased input finance required to sustain their higher production
levels. ARDC will operate this fund, and refinance ginning and processing
investments.  GOI, GOH, GOM, GOP, :ICAR and ARDC have agreed to implement the
project according to the schedule :Ln Annex 10.
B. Project Coordination and Management
5.02      An Integrated Cotton Development Project Coordinating Committee
(ICDC) has been organized by GOI under the chairmanship of a senior member
of the Ministry of Food and Agricu:Lture. It includes inter alia a senior



- 19 -
representative of the Ministries of Agriculture and of Industry (cotton
specialists), ICAR, GOR, GOM, GOP, ARDC, the National Seeds Corporation and
the Indian Cotton Mills Federation 1/. ICDC is responsible for overall
project coordination, and will deal with problems and difficulties arising
at GOI level and those that cannot be solved at state level. It will arrange
for an independent agency to evaluate the overall impact of the project.
ICDC has been organized and is operating under terms of reference, including
project evaluation, acceptable to IDA (Annex 8).
5.03      GOH, GOM and GOP have set up state Project Management Committees
(PMC) responsible for project management and coordination at the state level
and for dealing with problems and difficulties at both state and project
area levels. The Secretary for Agriculture is the Chairman of each state
PMC; members include senior staff of the Departments of Agriculture, Coopera-
tion and Industry, the CDS Project Director (para 5.10), representatives
from the universities, the state seed corporation and ARDC. The Project
Directors have been appointed and the three state PMCs have been organized
and are operating under terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
5.04      The three states have agreed that an ad hoc project area committee
would be set up by each CDS Project Director. Its function would be to obtain
coordination and cooperation of other agencies and institutions involved in
the project, such as the District and Block Panchayats, the District Commissioner
and his staff, Irrigation Department, Central Cooperative Bank, commercial
banks and key input supply and marketing agencies.
ICAR
5.05      ICAR would be responsible for (i) overall review and supervision
of the cotton research program of each university; (ii) employment and
assignment of the consultants to be attached to the universities and CDSs
(para 5.09); (iii) overall review and supervision of the overseas training
program for the research and extension staff (para 5.07); and (iv) overall
review and supervision of the Central Cotton Technology Research Laboratory
(CTRL) training program for gin operators and cottonseed oil processors
(para 5.13). ICAR would maintain separate accounts for all project funds it
received and expended.
5.06      Under ICAR leadership, detailed annual plans for items (i), (iii)
and (iv) would be developed by the respective universities and the CDS Project
Director in each area, with the advice of the consultants. ICAR has agreed
to accept the responsibilities outlined above (detailed in Annexes 3 and 4),
and to send the broad overall and annual detailed plans for research and
training to IDA for review and comment before each cotton crop season.
1/   The Indian Cotton Mills Federation supports research and extension
projects in both production and processing technology.



- 20 -
Agricultural Universities
5.07      The universities; HAIJ in Haryana, AAU, RAU and PAR in Maharashtra,
and PAU in Punjab, would be responsible for implementing the research program
agreed with ICAR. They would assist CDS plan the project area production
program, which would include university participation in field trials, dem-
onstrations, operational research, and training of CDS staff and growers.
They would produce the Breeder and Foundation cotton seed needed by the
state seed development corporations (para 5.15). Each university would
designate a supervisor and staff section leaders to be responsible for cot-
ton research, seed production, operational research, field testing and CDS
training functions under the project. Thie respective project supervisors
would represent their university on the sItate PMC and in the joint planning
and implementation of programs with ICAR and CDS. ICAR would assign con-
sultants to assist and advise the univers:Lties and CDS in these activities.
Details are in Annexes 3 and 4. GOH, 0OM and GOP have agreed that the uni-
versities would undertake the responsibiliLties and proposals outlined above.
5.08      HAU has insufficient land at Hissar to produce Breeder and Found-
ation seed for the project area. HAU has no land at Sirsa, where about 50 ha
will be needed for experimental work on cotton and a further 100 ha for the
production of Breeder and Foundation seed. HDAG operates a farm of about
120 ha in the area, and IARI has an adjoining station of about 20 ha with
laboratories and buildings. Transfer of both farms and their facilities
to HAU would prevent duplication of research effort and ensure that HAU
could provide adequate amounts of Breeder and Foundation seed and the re-
search backing needed for the project.  GOH and GOI have agreed to make
available to HAU adequate land it Sirsa.
Technical Assistance
5.09      Relatively few cotton research and extension workers in Haryana,
Maharashtra and Punjab have had international training and experience. Such
experience is essential if cotton development is to progress at an accelerated
rate. Provision would be made for a few of the research and extension staff
to study and work overseas. Howrever, the effect of this training would not
be available for the initial needs of the project. To meet these immediate
needs, consultants with international experience in cotton breeding, plant
protection and crop management would be engaged by ICAR and assigned to GOH
GOM and GOP. They would be posted to the universities and CDS to advise and
assist the staff to plan, execute and evaluate the project research and
extension aspects, and to train the staff. The proposed terms of reference
are in Annex 4. tOI, ICAR , GOH, OM and GOP have assured IDA that acceptable
arrangements would be made for consultants and for the overseas training
program for project staff. It would be a condition of effectiveness that
the consultants had been engaged.



- 21 -
C. Cotton Development Services
Organization
5.10      With the initiation of the project the existing extension services
in the project areas would be upgraded and transformed into CDSs and be
responsible for project implementation at the grower and marketer levels.
Details are in Annex 3. A Project Director with the rank of Joint Director
of Agriculture would manage and supervise the CDS staff and program. He
would report to the Director of Agriculture, and liaise with other agencies
operating in each project area. Each CDS would be divided intothree wings:
Extension, Plant Protection, and Marketing and Industry. The Extension Wing
would provide intensive production services to growers, including assistance
to procure seed, plant protection services, other inputs and SCF loans. It
would be staffed at a ratio of about one extension worker to 600 to 650
growers, and be responsible for all extension work in the project area.
Staff and growers would receive intensive training (para 5.13).
5.11      The Plant Protection Wing assisted by extension staff, would
organize and execute a program to provide growers with optimum protection
from harmful cotton insects and diseases. It would organize field campaigns
to influence growers and ginners to destroy by early March each year, all
cotton plant residue in the fields and factories, and to use plant protection
materials as needed. It would monitor the insect reproduction cycle to
determine when, where and what spray materials to apply. It would contract
with aerial and ground spraying firms for their services as required during
the cotton growing season.
5.12      The Marketing and Industry Wing would be responsible for informing
ginners and cottonseed processors of laws and ordinances regulating the
marketing of kapas, lint and cottonseed in the project area. It would
assist ginners and processors to improve their operations and plan addi-
tional investments.  It would organize training programs (with CTRL and the
Extension Wing) for cotton pickers and operators of ginneries and cottonseed
processing facilities.
Training, Program Planning and Operational Research
5.13      In organizing and conducting intensive training programs for its
own staff, cotton growers, ginners and processors, CDS would be assisted by
experts from ICAR, the universities, CTRL, the consultants and others. In
each project area the agricultural universities, with the advice of the con-
sultants, would assist the Project Director to develop and implement the
five-year and annual plans of work that would include, inter alia, training
activities, extension methods to be used, plant protection activities with
growers, a design for operational research studies on growers' fields, and
sub-regional testing of the effectiveness of plant protection methods and
equipment (Annexes 3 and 4).



- 22 -
Operational Plan
5.14      GOI, GOH, GOM and GOP have agreed with IDA on overall plans for the
organization and operation of each CDS, including: (i) staffing patterns;
(ii) equipment requirements; (iii) financial costs and control; (iv) procedures
for developing the annual plan of work and for coordination with all the
agencies involved in project implementation. IDA would review and comment
on the annual plans of work each year prior to the start of the cotton growing
season.
Certified Seed Production
5.15      The production and distribution of Certified cotton seed of the
recommended varieties in each state would be the responsibility of the
state seed development corporation under the National Seeds Project (para
3.23). The required amounts are given in Annex 4, Table 1. GOI, GOH, GOM
and GOP have assured IDA that adequate Certified cotton seed of the recommended
varieties for this project would be made available through acceptable programs.
Seed Quality Control
5.16      At present there is no control over the quality of seeds in Haryana.
GOH has agreed to pass a Seeds Certification Act and set up a seeds agency,
both to be acceptable to GOI and IDA. It would be a condition of disbursement
of any IDA funds to government agencies in Haryana that the Act had been
passed and the seeds agency was functioning to the satisfaction of IDA.
Maharashtra and Punjab each have a Seeds Certification Act, and an agency
currently functioning, but they require strengthening through further
laboratories and equipment. The necessary buildings, tquipment, and staff
training for each agency would be included in the Natidnal Seeds Project.
5.17      Under this project these agencies would be responsible for com-
pliance with accepted quality standards for all cotton seed distributed for
planting (Annex 4, Appendix A). They would inspect all fields and the grow-
ing crops where the grower was producing and marketing Foundation and Certi-
fied seed, and make the required laboratory tests prior to the labeling and
marketing of such seed. Each state has agreed that: (i) it would enforce
and maintain the quality standards in the project area, subject to prior
agreement with IDA over any proposed relaxation as a result of field experience;
and (ii) its seed quality control agency would be provided with adequate staff,
laboratories and equipment.
Legal Requirements
5.18      In Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab existing laws enable the govern-
ments to promulgate decrees to: (i) specify the variety (or varieties) of
cotton that can be planted in a notified area; (ii) require the mandatory or
compulsory control of noxious weeds, cotton plant residues, insect and plant
diseases in notified areas, and if not performed as required that the govern-
ment carry them out and charge the cost to the land occupier as an addi-
tion to the Land Revenue (Annex 2, para 34); (iii) prohibit the blending of



- 23 -
different varieties of kapas before or during the ginning and baling proces-
ses, and require the appropriate identification and labelling of each bale;
and (iv) control the movement and utilization of cottonseed into and within
a notified area. At present the laws are not operating in any state. For
a successful project it is essential that decrees be promulgated and enforced
in the project areas. Accordingly, GOB, GOM and GOP have agreed that decrees
would be operative in the project areas under plans acceptable to IDA and
maintained as long as they were economically desirable, subject to prior
agreement with IDA over any proposed relaxation as a result of field experience.
It would be a condition of disbursement of any IDA funds to government agencies
in each state that the decrees had been promulgated and were in force in that
state.
D.  Ginning and Cottonseed Processing
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
5.19      ARDC (formerly known as the Agricultural Refinance Corporation)
is well known to IDA, having prime responsibility for 10 on-going IDA agri-
cultural credit and five other IDA projects 1/. For this project it would be
responsible for: (i) refinancing loans made by commercial and cooperative
banks for improvements to existing ginning and processing facilities, and for
building new capacities; (ii) assisting these banks and the prospective
entrepreneurs to evolve and evaluate viable development plans; and (iii) ope-
rating the SCF (para 5.22).
Investment Proposals
5.20      Project financing for improvements to existing ginneries and
cottonseed processing factories are detailed in Annexes 5 and 6. In Punjab,
only improvements to existing ginneries would be financed. Most improvement
loans would be made to existing private firms and owners. Both GOH and GOM
have proposed that all new gins and cottonseed oil processing plants in the
project areas should be owned by cooperatives. They have agreed to provide
IDA with firm proposals for cooperatively owned plants, including ARDC-
evaluated feasibility studies, ownership and financing plans, staffing
details, training, cost estimates and operational cash flows.
5.21      Before ARDC refinances any investment it makes its own appraisal.
For project ginning and processing investments it would follow the proce-
dures already used for diversified lending under IDA Credit 540-IN. These
include technical evaluation by its Technical Unit, which employs consultants
1/ For the most recent appraisal of ARDC see IDA Report No. 562a-IN: Ap-
praisal of ARC Credit Project, March 15, 1975. IDA Credit 540-IN for
US$75 million.



- 24 -
where ARDC's own specialist staff is not fully qualified to complete an ap-
praisal. Its own staff makes the usual financial and economic evaluations.
Its project refinancing would be to commercial banks for loans to entre-
preneurs for improvements and new capacity. These banks would approach ARDC
for early assistance in evolving viable development plans for their clients.
The terms and conditions for AR])C refinancing of ginning and processing in-
vestments are included in Schedule A.
E. Seasonal Credit Fund
5.22      The SCF would finance the full incremental amounts required by
cotton growers in the project areas over and above those currently obtain-
able from existing institutional sources, to finance the increase in their
seasonal inputs, in particular the compulsory Certified seed and plant pro-
tection services, the increased fertilizer,, irrigation water charges and
hired labor. The SCF would be a revolving fund and is estimated to reach
a maximum of Rs 80 million by the end of the disbursement period.  About 33%
of the growers in the areas currently receive short term credit through insti-
tutional sources (mostly primary cooperative societies but including commer-
cial banks), and in calculating the amount it has been assumed that this would
increase to two-thirds by the end of the disbursement period.
5.23      About 30% of the growers would finance the package of inputs from
their own resources. However there would still remain a small number of
growers (probably 5%) who would be ineligible for SCF financing and unable
to obtain funds elsewhere.  They would be required to use the compulsory seed
and plant protection services. GOH, GOM and GOP have agreed to supply seed
and plant protection services to them and recover the costs (including
interest) through Land Revenue charges (para 5.18).
5.24      The proposed SCF lendinig terms are included in Schedule A.  Seasonal
crop loans for cotton cultivation in the project areas would continue to be
provided through the cooperative structure and by the commercial banks.
Between them they are capable of providing adequate coverage on the scale
necessary to maintain project cotton production. The cooperative structure
would derive its resources from taDC, which would use the procedures, criteria,
terms and conditions of seasonal loans to cooperatives currently used by RBI.
Commercial banks would continue to give seasonal loans to their clients in
the project areas under their current criteria, terms and conditions through
existing procedures.
5.25      ARDC has agreed to set up and operate the SCF, which would refinance
the amounts advanced to cooperatives and commercial banks for on-lending to
cotton growers in the project areas for their incremental seasonal input
requirements. It would cover only those funds required for cotton production
over and above those currently obtainable from institutional sources for this
purpose. These were estimated during appraisal (Annex 7). ARDC would be
responsible for confirming these estimates by determining the amount currently
used and defined as the amount advanced by cooperatives and commercial banks



- 25 -
for cotton growing in the project areas in calendar year 1975. This amount,
the "basic level", would be agreed by ARDC and IDA not later than the date
of effectiveness. All amounts above this basic level advanced by cooperatives
and CB in subsequent years would be eligible for refinance through the SCF.
IDA would disburse only against the incremental amounts ARDC disbursed each
year. ARDC has agreed to ensure that interest rates to growers would be the
same through cooperatives and commercial banks.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.26      IDA funds would be disbursed by:  (i) ICAR, for expenditures on
universities and for consultants; (ii) GOH, GOM and GOP for direct expendi-
tures on universities and CDS; (iii) ARDC for expenditures on ginning, pro-
cessing, and SCF. Separate accounts would be maintained by these institu-
tions for all project lending. The accounts under (i) and (ii) above would
be subject to the usual government control and auditing procedures, which
are satisfactory. ARDC's audited accounts are sent to IDA each year as a
requirement of on-going IDA projects, so that no special arrangements for audit
of its accounts for this project would be required. As part of its normal
refinancing operations ARDC requires commercial and cooperative banks to
maintain separate accounts for each approved scheme and project, so that no
special arrangements at this level would be needed for this project. GOI,
GOH, GOM, GOP, ICAR and ARDC have agreed that the above procedures would be
applied, and that each separate project account would be audited each year
and sent to IDA within four months of the end of each financial year.
VI. BENEFITS AND RETURNS
6.01      In an integrated development project of this type, benefits to
cotton growers and marketers and to the economy accrue from many sources.
The intensified adoption of existing and new cotton production technology
is expected to increase kapas yields in five years from the current 900 to
1,600 kg/ha in the Sirsa irrigated area, from 320 to 560 kg/ha in Amraoti
and from 1,250 to 2,000 kg/ha in Muktsar. By year twenty, continuation of
CDS and research activities would further increase yields to 2,000 kg/ha in
Sirsa, 900 kg/ha in Amraoti and 2,500 kg/ha in Muktsar. Increases of these
magnitudes would be due to the intensified area-wide organized and compulsory
control of cotton insects and diseases, and the rapid introduction and
diffusion of existing and new production technology resulting from the
project investments in research, extension and seasonal credit. The incre-
mental increase in output over the twenty year period would be about 0.8
million tons (4.5 million bales) of higher quality lint and 1.5 million tons
of cottonseed, with a gross value of about US$750 million. At 1980 discounted
prices the foreign exchange earning or saving benefits would total about
US$500 million with no shadow pricing for labor and foreign exchange, or
about US$900 million if shadow prices were included.



- 26 -
6.02      Agricultural beneficiaries would include about 120,000 farm
families and 200,000 landless laborers engaged in the production and harvest-
ing of cotton. Jobs for an additional 2,000 workers would be created in
cotton marketing and processing. An estimated 65% of the additional farm
and industry employment created by the project would benefit the lower 40%
of India's income earners.
6.03      Investments in the improvement and expansion of the project area
cotton ginning industry would increase the value of kapas ginned by about
Rs 560 (US$70) per ton due to improvement in its quality. Admixtures would
be removed and the proportion of broken and neppy fibers would be reduced.
Thus modest financial gains would benefit the gin owners and farmers would
receive a premium price for producing a higher quality lint. Consumers
would have more durable cotton fiber products.
6.04      Investments in the cottonseed processing industry would enable the
conversion of the 1.5 million tons of seed into higher valued by-products.
All of the edible oil recovered, about 250,000 tons valued at US$250 million
(1980 prices), would substitute for current import requirements. The re-
covery of linters, hulls and cottonseed meal would provide valuable by-
products currently wasted.
6.05      Financial rates of return at projected costs and prices were calcu-
lated for each project investment component (Annex 12). Economic rates of
return were calculated for each component and for the entire project at 1980
discounted prices for the products, and assuming an accounting price of 125%
of market price for all foreign exchange costs.  Economic rates were 10% for
ginnery items, 34% for cottonseed processing investments and over 100% for
the on-farm plus extenLion and research investments and the entire project.
Using a 15% discount rate, the benefit-cost ratios are 2.1 for the cotton
production-research-extension component, and 1.6 for the entire project.
6.06      Project calculations were based oni yield increases of SO% in Sirsa,
90% in Amraoti and 60% in Muktsar by year five and 120%, 180% and 100X, res-
pectively for year rwenty. Whilst the yield increases used are supported by
research and field experience, the risk of failure remains a potential
hazard, particularly in the Amraoti rainfed area. The project is highly
sensitive to any situation that adversely af'fects cotton yields and revenues,
such as weather, or failure to obtain effective control of insects, or low
kapas prices. In Sirsa, a yield increase of 35% by year five aWid 40% by
year twenty would be required to break even. In Amraoti, yield increases
of 65% in year five and 95% in year twenty would be required to cover all
costs. These yields are minimum realistic targets for the project.
6.07      The financial rate of return on investments in new cotton ginneries
varies fromi 12% to 15%, while the economic rate of return averages 10% for all
ginnery items. Rates of return are highly sensitive to ginning and baling fees
charged. Under certain conditions the respective State governments regulate
these fees at levels designed to yield 6.75% return to investment capital
after deducting depreciation and taxes. The three governments and GOI have
undertaken to re-examine their procedures for determining ginning and baling
charges to assure more equitable returns on ginnery investments.



- 27 -
6.08      The financial rate of return on investments in cottonseed pro-
cessing plant varies from about 36% for a vanaspati plant to 59% for the
expeller plant (Model B). The economic rate of return on an expeller-solvent
plant (Model F) is about 28%, and about 57% for the expeller plant (Model B).
The corresponding rate for the vanaspati plant is 42%. The overall average
is 37%.
6.09      Rates of return to investments in cottonseed processing facilities
are highly sensitive to the margin between the cost of cottonseed as a
raw material and the outflow product value (particularly vegetable oils), and
only moderately sensitive to changes in other operating costs or annual
throughput volume relative to full capacity. For example, the model F
cottonseed processing plant operated with a 15% higher cost for seed and no
change in product value would earn a negative financial rate of return.
However, if operated at 50% of throughput capacity at the assumed margin
the rate would be 19%.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  GOI, ICAR, GO, GOM and GOP would establish and
strengthen the CDS, and the agricultural universities
would expand their cotton research and training programs
(paras 5.07 and 5.10);
(b) detailed plans for CDS implementation schedules, would
be provided for IDA's review each year (para 5.14);
(c) certified cotton seed in the amounts needed for the
project areas would be produced and distributed through
the National Seeds Project (para 5.15);
(d) GOH, GOM and GOP would promulgate decrees regulating
varieties of cotton planted, area-wide control of plant
residues, weeds, insects and diseases, ginning and labelling
of cotton bales, and processing of cottonseed and enforce
them in the project areas (para 5.18); and
(e) plans for financing and operating new gins and cottonseed
processing plants through the cooperative movement would be
reviewed by ARDC and IDA (para 5.20).



- 28 -
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness include:
(a)  the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of GOI and ARDC (para 4.09); and
(b) the engagement by ICAR of consultants in cotton breeding,
plant protection and crop management in accordance with the
Terms of Reference state' in Annex 4, Appendix C (para
5.09).
7.03      The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$18 million on
standard terms.
December 15, 1975



SCHEDULE A
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ProJect Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions would be used to imple-
ment the project and would not be changed without prior agreement with IDA.
1.   IDA to GOI
Normal IDA terms and conditions.
2.  GOI to ICAR, GOH, GOM and GOP
(a) To finance civil works and equipment for the respective
state Cotton Development Services in the project areas,
and for cotton research and Breeder-Foundation cotton
seed production, including staff training and consultants,
by ICAR, CTRL and the respective agricultural universi-
ties: in accordance with GOI's established policies for
development assistance to ICAR and the states.
3.   GOI to ARDC
(a) For ARDC refinancing for up to 9 years:
(i) Annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum, less 0.25%
for prompt payment; and
(ii) Repayment at the end of 9 years;
(b) For ARDC refinancing for more than 9 and up to 15
years:
(i) Annual interest rate of 7.25% minimum, less
0.25% for prompt payment; and
(ii) Repayment at the end of 15 years; and
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
4.   ARDC to Lending Banks
(a) Annual interest rate of not less than 7.5% to the
lending banks;



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
(b) Installment repayments to coincide with agreed
collection dates from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) ARDC to refinance lending banks by loans not
exceeding 90% of individual loans.
5.   Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) To Cotton Ginnery and Cottonseed Processing Entreprenueurs
(i)  On-lending limited to cotton ginnery and cottonseed
processing entrepreneurs for improvements of facilities
now operating or for modern facilities to be installed
in the Sirsa, Hissar and Amraoti Districts and for
the rehabilitating of existing ginneries in Faridkot
District;
(ii)  A loan ceiling of 75% of the equipment and civil works
to be financed;
(iii) Ultimate borrower to have reserve capital in an
amount considered adequate by ARDC to operate the
facility;
(iv)  Annual interest; rate of not less than 11.0%;
(v)  Repayment pericid to be based on the earning capacity
of the investment but not exceeding 15 years including
a grace period not exceeding 3 years from the date
of signing the loan agreement; and
(vi)  all applications for refinance of schemes having
total investment costs in excess of US$0.50 million
equivalent, together with appraisal reports and all
other relevant data, to be forwarded to IDA for
final approval.
(b) To Borrowers from the Seasonal Credit Fund
(i)  On-lending limited to cotton growers in the Sirsa,
Amraoti and Muktsar project areas for short-term
cotton production credit;
(ii)  Annual interest rate of not less than 11.0%; and
(iii) Repayment period to be based on the marketing of
kapas but in any event not: to exceed 10 months.



SCHEDULE A
Page 3
6.   General
(a) ARDC and the lending banks to maintain separate
accounts: one for investment lending under
5(a) above and one for the Seasonal Credit Fund;
(b) Security to be in accordance with arrangements
between the lending banks and ARDC;
(c) ARDC only to refinance sub-projects which, on the
basis of careful feasibility and economic studies
were considered to be financially sound and viable,
and were backed with satisfactory technical and
administrative management; and
(d) ARDC to advise IDA prior to inviting bids in respect
of loans for the purchase of ginning and cottonseed
processing equipment where such bids were expected to
exceed US$500,000 equivalent.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE ROLE OF COTTON IN THE INDIAN ECONOMY
A. General
1.        India plants about 25% of the world cotton crop and produces 8% to
10Z of the world supply. The production of about 5.8 million bales of lint
(180 kgs each) and 2 million tons of cotton seed on 7.7 million ha uses about
5% of the national gross cropped area and employs about 15% of the national
working force, including 13 million farmers in its production, processing
and marketing (Table 1). The yield of kapas usually ranges between 350 and
400 kg per ha and is among the lowest in the world. Kapas is the harvested
seed cotton produce of the boll. When ginned it yields about 35% lint and
65% seed. The area, production and yield of cotton has been stable for the
past 10 years. However, in 1974--75 a record crop was harvested. Even so,
with a population growth rate of 2.3% the per capita production of lint has
declined. Unless production increases rapidly, India will need to increase
its imports of cotton lint and vegetable oil (paras 12 and 13).
2.        Cotton is a seed hair; some of the epidermal cells of the devel-
oping seed grow into fibers within the flower - seed boll. When mature, the
boll opens and the kapas is picked and delivered to the local market and
offered for sale. The kapas is ginned, i.e. the fibers, now called lint,
are removed from the seed. The lint is baled and transferred to a spinning
mill. The spinning operation draws or spins the lint into yarn which is
then woven into cloth. The seed may be processed into a number of products
or fed to livestock.
B. Organization for Production and Marketing
3.        Some 13 million farmers located in 115 of India's 340 districts
and with an average of 0.6 ha in cotton produce the kapas. See IBRD Map 11130.
Farmers are not organized as cotton producers. Their cotton markets are
regulated and supervised by the respective State governments. However, less
than 1% of the kapas is sold on the basis of official grades although the
service is available in the larger market cemters.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Gin Stands.  About 3,000 gin stands are operated to process an
average of about 1,800 bales of lint and 650 tons of cottonseed each year.
About 300 gin stands are operated by farmer cooperatives, 700 are operated
by business firms that also own and operate spinning mills. The remaining
2,000 gin stands are operated mostly as custom ginners. State governments
usually regulate the rates that ginners charge for their services. Gin
stand owners are organized into regional and national trade associations.
5.        Cotton Mills.  In 1973-74, 689 fully mechanized cotton mills with
18.5 million spindles and 206,000 looms employed over 1 million workers to
process cotton lint into the equivalent of 5,600 million meters of cloth.
In addition, 175,000 motorized and 3 million manually operated handlooms
provided employment to 2.5 million workers and processed the equivalent of
4,800 million meters. The Fifth Plan target would increase the number of
spindles to 24.0 million and the number of looms to 295,000.
6.        Both the handloom and mechanized cotton mill owners have had trade
organizations for over 200 years to promote and develop their business
interests. Noteworthy at this time, is the Indian Cotton Mills Federation
(ICHF) and its affiliated regional Associations and local members. The
ICMF and its predecessors have supported effective programs of cotton pi-
duction, processing, research, training of its membership technical staff
in ginning and spinning activities and extension education with cotton
farmers. The All-India Handloom Federation and Marketing Board provides
marketing services and other support for this segment of the textile industry.
7.        Export Market.  Raw cotton and cotton textiles are exported and
represent about 5% of India's foreign exchange earnings. Among agricultural
commodities the value of jute and tea exported exceed the value of cotton
exported. India also imports raw cotton to supplement its own production
and to provide fiber qualities demanded in its domestic and export textiles
but not available in India (see Table 2). These data do not include the
value of raw cotton, cottonseed, linters and cottonseed oilcake exported.
With the value of these items included the value of cotton exports would be
about double the cost of imports. However, India's Fifth Plan objective
is for the cotton industry to become self-sufficient and a stronger net
earner of foreign exchange.
B.        Fiber Characteristics.  Fiber characteristics help determine
market value for cotton lint on the basis of the following criteria:
Staple               Length
Class        Yarn Count    Staple Group         mm                   Inches
Coarse       1 s to 17s    Short              below 20         below 24/32
Low Medium   18s to 25s    Medium             20 to 21.5    25/32 to 27/32
High Medium  26s to 35s    Sup. Med.          22 to 24.0    28/32 to 30/32
Fine         36s to 47s    Long               24.5 to 29.5  31/32 to 37/32
Super Fine   48s above     Extra Long         30.0 plus        above 37/32



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Other criteria such as bundle strength and micronaire values are used to
evaluate fiber quality. In addition, the percent yield of lint, its color,
trash content and appearance help determine the value of the farmer's kapas.
In the early 1950s over 2/3 of the Indian cotton had a staple length below
22 mm. Since 1966-67, more than 2/3 of the crop has had a staple length
in excess of 22 mm; at present over 25% of the crop has a staple length over
24.5 mm. Most of this improvement is due to the intensification and ex-
pansion of cotton breeding research since 1966-67 (See Annex 4).
9.        Most of India's cotton is either the Gossypium hirsutum (American
upland), Gossypium arboreum or Gossypium herbaceum (Indian deshi) species.
The G. hirsutum is a tetraploid. The two Indian desi species are old world
diploid cottons. Under most field conditions, they do not cross pollinate
and interbreed; however, for the production of Certified cotton seed it is
desirable to keep the seed producing fields separated. Also, a small area
is planted to Gossypium barberdense cotton, a long staple species.
10.       The quality of fibers, as they develop on the boll, depends on
the inherited characteristics of the seed planted and the conditions of
growth. This inherent quality can be improved upon only by suitable
breeding and agronomic practices. Heavy infestations with pink bollworm
and other similar insects degrades the quality of the lint. Improvement
is not possible after the boll matures; in fact, this quality may not be
maintained if the ginning, handling and spinning processes are defective.
11.       More than 80% of the Gossypium arboreum varieties classify as
low medium or coarse (para 8). However, the fibers of these varieties have
a high resilience capability. They are used for bedding and carpeting
materials and for blending. The Gossypium hirusutum varieties, grown in
about 2/3 of the planted area, classify mostly as low or high medium and
are used for cloth goods and as a blend base. Over 85% of the Gossypium
herbaceum varieties classify as low medium gnd the Gossypium barbadense
varieties classify as fine or super fine; these varieties are used for
blending and weaving into high quality cloth.
12.       Demand Projections.  The annual consumption of cotton fibers in
India is 2.0 kg per capita and is stationary. However, the value of
cotton textile goods (cloth, yarn, etc.) exported more than doubled while
lint exports declined from 1965 to 1974 (at discount prices). Recent actual
consumption and Fifth Plan projections of demand by cotton classes are as
follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Additional
Actual Consumption Fifth Plan Projection Production
Cotton Class         Ave. 1970-71 to 74         1978-79            Required
- ------- -- ----000 bales            - --          -
(1                      (%)
Coarse                 519  ( 9)                500   ( 6)               -19
Low Medium           1,127  ( 20)             1,600   ( 19)              473
High Medium          2,388  ( 41)             3,500   ( 43)            1,112
Fine                 1,589  ( 28)             1,800   ( 22)              211
Super Fine             147  (  2)               800   ( 10)              653
Total          5,770  (100)              8,200   (100)           2,430
12.       Over 80% of all Gossypium arboreum and Gossypium herbaceum cotton
varieties have staple lengths and yarn counts that classify them as coarse.
The demand projections given above indicate a weakening in demand for these
types of cotton. Less than 20% of the Gossypium hirsutum and none of the
Gossypium barbadense varieties are classified as coarse. However, the
Gossypium barbadense varieties have a very limited area and climate where
they produce at satisfactory levels.
13.       The Plan assumes self-sufficiency in cotton production, thus the
elimination of lint imports. The Plan also assumes continuation of the
availability of 2.0 kg lint per capita and a further expansion of textile
goods exports. To achieve these objectives the cotton millers group (and
the mission) suggest that production of lint must expand to 9.0 million bales
by 1978-79 or imports must provide for the deficit. The substantial increase
in the production of high medium, fine and superfine classes as projected
in para 12 is possible with new cotton varieties recently introduced only
if a sophisticated Certified seed production program and an effective insect
control program are adopted.
14.       Price Policies and Market Regulations.  The market regulations
mentioned in para 3 above refer only to rules for negotiating price and
weight between the farmer-producer and the kapas buyer. However, for many
years, GOI and the respective State governments have specified official
floor and ceiling prices for each type and class of kapas. To strengthen
its support price policies GOI, in 1970 established the Cotton Corpora-
tion of India (CCI). Objectives of CCI include procurement of enough cotton
to stabilize prices paid producers and costs to the cotton millers, both
seasonally and secularly. However, before CCI can operate in any State it
must have concurrence of the State government. In the case of Maharashtra,
the State government operates as a monopoly purchaser of all kapas. In
other States the price support functions of CCI are managed by the State
Cooperative Marketing Federation. CCI and GOM have operated their price
support and procurement programs at a financial loss. CCI also imports
cotton lint.



ANNEX I
Page 5
15.       Cotton ginners are regulated in each State; generally to prohibit
blending of Coarse and Low Medium kapas with higher classes during the
ginning process. In some States the custom rates charged are regulated.
Cotton millers and textile weavers are regulated as to price and the amount
of cloth they must process in the Low Medium class for use by low incoie
consumers. They must also hire! a specified amount of labor. The handloma
industry is subsidized and usually export incentives are offered to textile
exporters. Under these regulatory programs, which have had the effect of
minimizing margins between the price paid for kapas and the price received
for the processed goods, cotton ginners and millers have either failed to
modernize their equipment or have declared bankruptcy. A new GOI program
takes over "sick" mills and continues their operation at a loss as a means
of maintaining employment. These are symptoms of a "sick" industry that needs
strong competitive forces to hasten the modernization of its gins, cottonseed
oil processing facilities, spinning mills and fabricators.
C. Cotton Production
16.       The major cotton producing districts in India are in the states of
Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Punjab, Rajasthan
and Tamil Nadu. See the attached map IBRD 11130. State production data for
selected states are given in Table 3. Both area and production have been
stable for the past 8 to 10 years varying only with rainfall. Most of the
irrigated cotton is in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu.
For all of India the area and y:lelds of irrigated and unirrigated hirsutum
and arboreum cottons are as follows:
Area                Production        Lint
Hectares  Percentage  Bales  Percentage   Yield
('000t'              ('000)              (kg/ha)
G. Hirsutum
Irrigated           1,630          21      2,898      49        320
Rainfed             1,630          21      1,313      22         145
Sub-total      3,260         41       4,211      71        232
G. Arboreum              4,600          59      1,742      29          68
Total          7,860         100      5,953     100        136
17.       While yield levels are among the lowest for the major cotton pro-
ducing countries, most Indian cotton farmers have no effective alternative
than to plant low yielding and indigenous varieties of arboreum cottons
where rainfall during the growing season averages less than about 750 mm.
To increase yields, more of the existing cotton area must be irrigated, some



ANNEX 1
Page 6
of the area in arboreum cottons should be shifted to hirsutums, short-season
varieties that are more responsive to fertilizers and other inputs should be
developed and genetically pure seeds of these varieties made available to
farmers. The crop must be fully protected from insects and diseases. In
the Punjab, cotton yields increased about 50% with the introduction of
shorter season more responsive varieties, a concerted effort to use fertilizers
and irrigation and a major effort to protect the cotton against insect in-
festation by the use of aerial spray equipment.
18.       Expansion of the cotton area irrigated depends on such factors
as price relationships with other crops competing for the use of land and
the expansion of irrigation resources. Minimum prices fixed for the kapas
must be at incentive levels; there is a positive and significant relation-
ship between the area planted to rainfed cotton and cotton-cereal grain
prices. In areas with irrigation, cotton varieties that mature in less than
180 days must be provided to permit multiple cropping with cereal crops or
potato.
19.       Low Response to Fertilizers.  Most test results reviewed by the
mission indicate a relatively low response of the existing varieties to
fertilizers, especially under rainfed conditions. Typically when irrigated,
the first 20 kgs of nitrogen (N) increased yields by 160 to 175 kg of kapas,
the second 20 kg of N added 100 to 150 kg of kapas, additional N either
failed to increase yield or resulted in a lower yield. Under rainfed con-
ditions similar responses were obtained only for the first 20 kg of N and
when 750 to 900 mm of rain was received during the growing season. With
less or more rain the response was less. Also, only in a few trials was
there a financially viable response to phosphate and potash fertilizers.
With N at Rs 5 per kg and kapas valued at Rs 2.0 per kg for arboreums and
Rs 2.5 per kg for hirsutums, the use of fertilizer would be financially vi-
able at low rates of application and only under irrigated or assured rain-
fall conditions. However, there is sufficient evidence to suggest that a
compact type cotton plant with 120 to 180 days maturity could be developed
and with a higher response to N, P and K.
D. The Need for Plant Protection
20.       Estimates of crop losses because of inadequate or no effective
protection from cotton insect pests and diseases are given at 20 to 30%
of the potential yield - 1.2 to 1.7 million bales of lint and 0.8 million
tons of cottonseed each year. In addition, insect infested cotton bolns
produce weaker lint fibers and less cottonseed oil. Numerous samples of
cottonseed examined by the mission showed 30% to 40% insect infestation.
Effective plant protection is considered to be the most important component
of the package of needed production inputs.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
21.       Most varieties of Indian cottons grow tall, 1.5 to 2.0 m, and bushy
plants that require from 200 to 300 days from planting date to the last
harvest date. If the density of the stand (number of plants per ha) exceeds
20,000 to 25,000 then the operator carrying the hand or back-pack pump
equipment cannot walk between the tall bushy cotton after the first 100 days
of growth. Stands of less than 20,000 plants give low yields. The fixed
tail boom on the back-pack pump equipment cannot be adjusted to apply the
spray material to the tops of the tall cotton. A spray nozzle and boom
manually operated in front of the laborer can reach the tall cotton but
endangers the operator; he shou:Ld wear a mask which is uncomfortable in
warm climates. The aerial equipment can apply the chemicals effectively to
tall and bushy cotton plants only if the aircraft can operate at 3 to 5
meters above the growing crop. Numerous trees, electric lines and other
obstacles inhibit the operation of aerial equipment in many areas.
22.       Cotton varieties that mature in 150 days require fewer spray
applications than varieties that: mature in 200 to 300 days. Bollworm popu-
lations tend to build up rapidly starting with the first flowering at about
60 days after planting. Most f:Lowering and boll formation occurs within
60 to 120 days after planting. Many flowers attached by the bollworm drop
off, causing the plant to reflower. Most boll formations after 120 days
fail to mature. Infestations are heaviest in farming areas where cotton is
planted over a 30 to 150 day timae span. Control measures are more ef-
fective when all the cotton in a region; say, a minimum of 10 km by 10 km;
is planted at the same time and an area wide sanitation and chemical control
program is adopted by all cottoin farmers in the area.
23.       The major insect pests that attack the growing cotton plant in-
clude the pink bollworm, spotted bollworm, spiny bollworm, jassid and
aphid (a more detailed list is given in Appendix A to this Annex). The
life cycle of the most prevalenel ones is as follows:
Pink Bollworm: The greenish white small flattened eggs are laid
on the newly forming bolls, leaves and stalks. The eggs hatch
into a larvae within 3 or 4 days. Within a few hours of hatching
the larvae bore into the f:Lower bud or young boll where it feeds
and develops into the pupae stage. After some 2 to 3 weeks it
pupates. The adult moths repeat this cycle 3 to 4 times up to
November or December when Ithe larvae stage insects hibernate in
the maturing cotton stalks or seed until the next April or May.
They then renew the cycle with the planting of the next crop.
The pest is most vulnerable to chemical controls only during the
egg and early larvae stage before it enters a cotton flower or
boll. A field sanitation program that includes destruction by
fire or deep plowing of aLL cotton crop residues in the fields
and at the gins and cotton storage facilities by early March is
also essential. Effective control of the pink bollworm can be
achieved only on a large area basis as the adult moth may be
wind borne for 3 to 10 miles before starting the egg laying



ANNEX 1
Page 8
activity. Also, all seed planted must be free from bollworm
pupae.
Spotted Bollworm: This pest usually appears as a bluish white
spherical egg laid singly on the new leaf shoot tips and young
bolls from July to November. The larvae feed on the new growth
causing the flower and boll formation to be retarded. Its life
cycle is repeated each 30 or 35 days. The larvae are most
vulnerable to chemical poisons.
Spiny Bollworm: A different species with a life pattern similar
to the spotted bollworm.
Jassid: This leaf hopper type insect generally appears with the
first cotton leaf sprout in May or June and reaches its maximum
intensity from late July to September. Elongated yellowish white
eggs are laid singly in the tissues of veins on the underside of
the leaf surface. The eggs hatch in about 4 days, the life cycle
is repeated 10 to 11 times each season. The jassid is most
vulnerable to chemical materials.
Aphid: This polyphagous insect can be severe on rainfed cotton
when rains are frequent and temperatures moderate. It is seldom
observed on irrigated dry season cotton. Small soft bodies,
greenish brown nymphs and adults are found in colonies on the
tender new plant growth. Reproduction is paraheterogenetical
viparity and there are several generations each year. A single
apterous female produces 12 to 24 nymphs per day that start
their own production cycle in 7 to 9 days. Male aphids are
absent or rare. The aphid sucks juices from the growing plant.
Contact chemicals are most effective against the young nymphs.
Insect Control Methods
24.       The Indian cotton crop has not had effective protection from
insect losses. However, a large number of field tests and farmer experiences
indicate the strengths and weaknesses of using various equipment, materials
and organizational arrangements. Equipment used includes hand or pedal
operated sprayers, back-pack hand or power operated sprayers, tractor
mounted power sprayers and either fixed wing or helicopter aircraft. The
low volume high concentration sprayer has not been used extensively in
India.
25.       In India the use of aerial spray equipment on cotton increased
from 81,000 ha in 1969-70 to 358,000 ha in 1973-74. Even though this is
only about 5% of the total cotton area of the country India's cotton ex-
perts concluded that aerial equipment had sprayed more cotton area and given
more effective protection that all other types of equipment and methods
combined. Major difficulties with its use include (a) the need to have



AMNEX 1
Page 9
cotton planted in a compact area with a minimum of inter and intra-planting
of other crops; (b) absence of tall trees and high electric lines in the
cotton fields, and (c) high cost per application relative to the value
of benefits on low yielding rainfed cotton. The risk from possible damage
to other crops and to humans was considered to be the same with aerial or
ground equipment.
26.       Characteristics to be considered in choosing the appropriate equip-
ment and organizational arrangements include: (a) the investment and
operating costs, (b) whether or not the pinik bollworm are at the same life
stage throughout the region; (c) the physical ability of the operator to
apply the appropriate chemical within the 3 to 4 day time span required for
the pink bollworm egg to hatch and the larvae to move into the flower or
boll; and (d) the organization and management of an area wide control pro-
gram. India's experience with regional (Block or District wide) complete
coverage type spray programs indicate major difficulties in obtaining
application of the materials at the optimum time and in getting complete
coverage for the 6 to 20 or more times required to control the pink boll-
worm. Most spray programs that control pink bollworm also control other
cotton insect pests.
27.       The research and extension agencies in most of the major cotton
growing states have had extensive experience in the use of alternative
systems of organizing and motivating cotton farmers and arranging for
equipment, materials, spray equipment operators and spray schedules in an
attempt to control cotton insects. In those limited cases where effective
control was achieved, yield increases of 50 to 60% for rainfed cotton and
60 to 100% for irrigated cotton above the unprotected plots or areas were
achieved.
E. Conclusions
28.       An effective cotton insect control program is a prerequisite
to any integrated cotton development project with increased yields and
output as major objectives. The components of an effective cotton insect
and disease control program include: (a) the breeding of short compact
cotton varieties that are partially disease and insect resistant, more
responsive than existing varieties to the application of fertilizer and
other inputs, and permit a plant population in excess of 100,000 per ha on
rainfed land and 200,000 per ha on assured irrigated land; (b) the compulsory
enforcement of one-variety cottonL areas; (c) the production and distribution
to cotton growers in the restricted area of disease and insect free and
genetically pure seed of the new one-variety; (d) a compulsory area wide
sanitation program that would require destruction of all plant residue, boll
hulls and unginned bolls, the crushing of all cottonseed after ginning and
the fumigation of all cottonseed storage fa,cilities; and (e) compulsory
spraying of all cotton grown in the area. The aggressive operation of such



ANNEX1
Page 10
a program should result in a 50% to 100% increase in cotton yields prior
to the introduction of the new high yielding cotton varieties. With Certi-
fied seed of the new varieties plus the other recommended inputs a further
increase of 50% to 1002 may be projected. Integrated cotton development
also includes modernization of ginning equipment and the training of cotton
pickers and gin operators to market and process clean strong fibered lint
and the crushing of all cottonseed by techniques that obtain the maximum
of all by-products. This project is designed to provide these components.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVEMPMEDT PROJECT
Total Indian Cotton Production
Production                             Yield
Year         Area               Lint    a  Cotton Seed         Kapas         Lint          Seed
million ha     million bales-a  million tons
---kg/ha------------
1969-70      7.73               5.25            1.859           366          122           244
1970-71      7.78               4.50            1.62            312          104           208
1971-72      7.80               5.56            2.00            403          151           252
1972-73      7.68               5.42            1.95            381          127           254
1973-74      7.60               5.82            2.10            414          138           276
a/ 1 bale = 180 kg
July 16, 1975



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Supply and Disappearance
Cotton Textiles
Production    aJ                                   Apparent bf    Cost of             Value of
and Carry-over       Imports       Exports       Consumption-       Imports (cif)      Exports (fob)
------'O----------------'(OOO Bales)--------------------------    ------(Rs  Millions)--------
1951-52                    3,551            1,240           200             4,591               -                  _
1952-53                    3,461              680           309             3,832                -
1953-54                    4,389              690           134             4,945                -                 -
1954-55                    4,996              620           319             5,297                -                 _
1955-56                    4,378              610           612             4,376                -                 _
1956-57                    4,835              620           299             5,156                -
1957-58                    5,119              420           292             5,247                -                 _
1958-59                    4,835              510           401             4,944                _                 _
1959-60                    3,910              940           201             4,649                -                 _
1960-61                    5,362            1,107           290             6,179              172                 _
1961-62                    4,694              871           329             5,236                -                119
1962-63                    5,699              845           330             6,217                _                135
1963-64                    6,o44              640           269             6,415                                 150
1964-65                    5,666              853           239             6,280                -                156
1965-66                    5,296              526           182             5,640               97                129
1966-67                    5,289              806           245             5,850                                 121
1967-68                    6,176              777           231             6,722                -                138
1968-69                    5,685              429           190             5,924              120                155
1969-70                    5,907              911           207             6,611                -                174
1970-71                    5,336              835           165             6,o06                -                165
1971-72                    5,560              756           187             6,129              152                174
1972-73                    5,420              442           235             5,627              118                196
1973-74                    5,820              156           553             6,523                                  _ -
a/ Trade estimates of running bales (approx 170 kg) converted to standard 180 kg bales.                                   r\I
b! Sum of production plus imports minus exports ignoring stocks held before ard after.



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Area, Production and Yield, By States
1964-65        1965-66        1966-67        1967-68         1968-69         1969-70        1970-71
Maharashtra    A      2,824           2,663          2,611          2,794           2,717           2,811          2,t2
P      1,251          1,115           1,150         1,531            1,499          1,3 1            >
Y         80             75              79            99               99             A              36
Gujarat        A      1,8h6           1,726          1,740         1,650            1,608           1,647         1,582
p      1,555          1,568          1,543          1,718            1,575          1,752          1,80
y        151            163             160           187              176            191
Mysore         A      1,013             958            985          1,088           1,061           1,0o06           995
P        522            264            302            351              393            303            402
Y         98             50              55            58               67             68             73
Madhya Pradesh A        905             864            820            775             688             684            692
p        492            349             304           361              376            369            250
y         98             73              67            84               98             97             65
Punjab         A        487            464             432           420              385             410            397
P        808            028             823           882              019             905           959
y        299            321             343           378              383             397           435
Tamil Nadu     A        376            422             407            356             282             345            311
P        357            484            48o            418              282            448            404
y        171            206             212           211              180             234           234
Rajasthan      A        261             278            250            256             263             234            225
-   P    104            183            197            256              9go            134            268
Y         72            118             142           180              130             103           214
Haryana        A        174             193            183            241             212             194            194
P        291            321             309           423              372             384           410
1        301            299             304           316              316             356           380
Others         A        385             374            407           415              420             400            402
P        286            184             178           236              179             161           239
r        134             88              79           102               77              72           107
ALL STATES     A      3,271           7,?42          7,835          7,995           7,636           7,731          7,610
P      5,666          5,296           5,289         6,176            5,685           5,907         5,336
y        123            120             121           139              134             137           126  - .
A = Area ('000 hectares)
P = Production ('000 bales of 180 kg each)
Y - Lint yield - kg per hectare
July 16, I197



Appendix A
iNIJlA~~~~~~~~
INDIA
INT iGRATHI I0,O'TUN DEVJ,-LOI+KEN'r PIROJ EC'T
Sequence and Duration of Occurrunce of Cotton Inaect Pests At
Sirsa, Haryana
(Cotton Season: Mid-April to Mid-December)
Location: 7$.40E, 29.33N                Average Rainfall:  250 mm
Soil_Type:  Sandy-Loam                   Temperature Range: 20 - 420C
Plants Parts    Period Of       Economic
Name of Insect Pest         Damaged         Occurrence      Status
Teni te (Odontoterms obesus Rambur)  Roots             iflay-June     Minor
Field Cricket (GryJllus viator Kirby) Seedlings        May-June       Minor
Dusky Ground Hopper (Ghrotogonus                       Early June-
brachypterus Bl.anchard)             Seedlings        early July     Minor
Grey Weevil (yllocerus undecim-                       Early June-
pustalatus maculous. Desbrocher)     Leaves           September      Minor
Thrip (Thrips tabaci Lindemann)       Seedlings        Mid-June       Minor
mid-July
Whitefly (Bamisla tabaci                               Mid-June
Genrnadius)                          Leaves           September      Minor
Jassid (Sundapteryx biguttula                          End June-
biguttula Ishida)                    Leaves           September      Major
Aphid (Aphis gossypii Glover)         Leaves          Mid-July        Minor
Early August
Leafroller (Sylepta derogata                           Mid-July       Minor
Fabricius)                           Leaves           September
Spiny Bollworm (Earias insulana       Growing tips,   Mid-July-       Major
Bo isduval)                          squares,         November
flowers, green
bolls
Stainer Bug (Dysdercus                Leaves, green   End-July        Doubtfil
Koenigii Fabricius)                  and open bolls  October
Spotted Bollworm (Earias fabia        Squares, green End-July         Major
Stoll)                               bolls
Stein Borer (Sp!ifnoptera             Stem            End-July-       Minor
gossypii. Cotes)                                     August
Pink ]Bollworm (Pectino-phora         Squares,         End August-    Major
gossypiella Saunders)                flowers, green  November
bolls
Dusky Cotton Bug                      Open bolls       September-     Doubtful
(Oxy-carenus laetus Kirby)                            November



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA RESOURCES FOR COTTON PRODUCTION
1.        The irrigated cotton production area of Hissar district in Haryana,
a part of the irrigated cotton area of Faridkot district in Punjab and a part
of the rainfed cotton area in Amraoti district, Maharashtra, were proposed
by GOI for extension work with growers. These states were also proposed for
the cotton research component. This annex describes the resource situation
in each District and State related to cotton production.
A. Haryana State and Hissar District
2.        The typical crop pattern, production and yield for Haryana State
and Hissar district are given in Table 1. Wheat is the most important crop
with about 1.25 million ha that averages about 1,600 kg per ha. Other crops
include bajra, paddy, gram, jowar, sugarcane, oilseeds and cotton. The
area planted to cotton in Haryana increased from 54,000 ha in 1950-51 to
260,000 ha in 1973-74. Most of the increase was in Hissar district where
the area in cotton increased from 21,000 ha to 215,000 ha. Likewise, yield
per ha has increased from 508 kg kapas (seed 64%, lint 36%) per ha in
1950-51 to 867 kg per ha in 1973-74. Most of the increase was the result
of adding irrigation from the Bhakra Dam system and the shift from an
arboreum to a hirsutum variety.
The Sirsa Project Area
3.        The proposed project area comprises a compact region in Sirsa
and Fatehabad Revenue Sub-Divisions of Hissar district and is situated from
29-15' to 29-50' longtitude and 740-30' to 750.50t latitude.  The area
starts at a distance of 20 km fromn Hissar town and includes an area about
120 km by 50 km to the west and north (see IBRD Map 11130). The area
includes about 460,000 ha, 353 vi:Llages and 5 Community Development Blocks,
i.e. Bhunwa, Fatehabad, Ratia, Rania and Sirsa.
4.        Most cotton farmers own and operate their own land, which was
consolidated about 1958. Land tenure laws ensure security of tenants who
may claim 2/3 or more of the gross produce. However, because of the high
rental rate less than 5% of the crop land is tenant operated. Land taxes
include land revenue, special surcharges, commercial crop and canal irriga-
tion water cesses. The land holdiLng pattern is as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Number of
Number                 Cotton Growers
('000)         %          ('000)              _
Under 1 ha      37.3        33.3            26.9           44.1
1 -  5 ha       47.2        42.2            26.3           43.1
5 - 10 ha       18.1         16.2            7.6            12.5
Over 10 ha       9.3         8.3              .2              .3
111.9       100.0           61.0           100.0
5.        This pattern of land holdings came about as a result of a series
of land reforms including consolidation and a limitation on the size of
holding held by one individual. Consequently, holdings nominally subdivided
between members of immediate or extended families continue to be operated
as one unit. The most important outcome of this is that within the project
area one in fact has to deal not with 112,000 separate owners, as it would
appear in the Land Revenue records, but only with an estimated 56,000 farm
production units. About 5,000 cotton farmers operate on land outside the
project area.
6.        In the 1971 census, the project area population was reported as
662,000; 144 per square km or 1.4 persons per ha of land. The working force
was estimated at 229,000 including 111,000 landless laborers. Local indus-
tries including cotton ginneries, oil seed processing plants, brick kilns,
and market services employ more than 2/3 of the landless laborers and about
half of the working force. With about 56,000 farm operating units and over
470,000 ha in crops, the average holding is about 8.4 ha of gross cropped
area including 2.0 ha of cotton and is operated by 2.5 labor units. The
farm family provides an estimated 75% of the agricultural labor used in
farming. Cotton harvest labor is usually hired.
7.        Geology and Soils.  The project area is a part of the Indo-Gangetic
alluvial plains. It is covered with deposits of wind blown sands. There
are no perennial rivers or outcrops of stone. The topography is flat to
gently undulating. Soils vary from hard clay to sandy and with a ph varying
from 8.0 to 8.5. They are deficient in nitrogen and available phosphate.
Most soils are well drained and suitable for cotton and wheat production.
8.        Climate. The area has a semi-arid to arid climate with long and
dry hot weather. Winter temperatures drop to as low as 1C in January,
while May and June temperatures usually exceed 45C. Mean temperatures
exceed 20C for 37 weeks. From late February to June hot winds and sand
storms are usual. Average annual rainfall for the past 71 years was 330 mm.
About 75% of the rain falls during July to September. The period without
critical water stress for adapted irrigated crops is early July to early
September.
9.        Groundwater. Only 38% of the project area contains groundwater
considered acceptable for irrigation purposes, another 38% is of marginal



ANNEX 2
Page 3
quality. The remainder is too saline. The area has 526 deep tubewells and
5,500 shallow tubewells and pumpsets that provide irrisation to about 24,000
ha. The groundwater recharge is estimated at 15,746 m per annum with
3,256 m3 utilized for minor irrigation. The balance of 12,489 u3 would be
available for further development.
10.       Irrigation.  The Bhakra Power and Irrigation Project canal system
provides water to irrigate about 190,000 ha of crops with a designed duty of
0.166 m3 per sec per 100 ha in the project area. Consequently, the designed
farming intensity is only 60% of the cultivated commanded area. However,
farmers apply the water to about 65% of the gross cropped area including
almost all of the cotton, wheat, sugarcane and paddy. Bhakra water is dis-
tributed in the project area by the Haryania Irrigation Department. The
Haryana allocation will be increased about 15% with the completion of addi-
tional storage capacity, in 1976.
11.       Cotton Culture.  Two varieties of cotton are produced in the project
area; Gossypium hirsutum, American upland 320F on 70% of the area and
Gossypium arboreum, deshi G27 on 30% of the area. The 320F variety is a
selection from the originally introduced LSS which was released to farmers in
1933. It is the dominant variety for over 1 million ha of irrigated cotton
in Ferozepur and Bhatinda districts in the Punjab and in the Rajasthan Canal
area and another 1 million ha in Pakistan. The G27 arboreum was selected
from local deshi cotton and released in 1969.
12.       The Sirsa area cropping pattern is given in Table 2.  About 50% of
the 56,000 cotton farmers plant less than 1 ha of cotton of which 21% plant
less than 0.4 ha, 21% plant 1 to 2 ha, 21% plant 2 to 4 ha and the remaining
8% plant over 4 ha. The small holders operate largely as part time farmers
and tend to plant more of the G27 variety on their less well irrigated lands.
13.       The land is prepared and planted to cotton, using a pre and post
seeding irrigation, in early May at the rate of about 20 kg seed per ha. Most
farmers do not use fertilizers on cotton. Planting is in rows of about
0.9 m width. On the smaller holdings the crop is hand weeded, larger farmers
with scarce labor destroy the weeds with either ox or tractor draw cultiva-
tors. The 320F variety requires about 180 days to mature and is harvested
too late to be followed by wheat.
4.        Seeds.  The Seeds Division of HDAG is the major agency engaged
in the production or procurement, processing and distribution of seeds to
Haryana farmers. In 1973/74 it marketed 1,200 tons of 320-F and 500 tons
of H-14 cotton seed, 18,000 tons of HYV wheat, 2,000 tons of HYV paddy,
500 tons of gram and 500 tons seed potato. Most of the cotton seed was
procured from cotton farmers as kapas in the market yard and ginned in com-
mercial gins. The cotton seed was then cleaned, fumigated, stored, bagged
and distributed to growers. This system of operation may assure a better
quality seed for the 85,000 ha it would pLant than many cotton farmers could
do for themselves. However, it does not assure genetic purity of variety,



ANNEX 2
Page 4
freedom from pink bollworm (because fumigation does not control pink boll-
worm) or acceptable germination.
15.       In 1974, GOH established the Haryana Seed Development Corporation
(HSDC) as a fully owned State sector business firm to manage the seeds
business formerly executed by HDAG. HSDC has equity capital of Rs 50.00
million (US$6.25 million). HSDC's terms of reference include management
of GOH State seed farms to produce Foundation and Certified seed and to
engage in seed procurement, processing and marketing. HSDC is expected to
receive substantial financing through the forthcoming National Seeds Proj-
ect. It will be responsible for the production and distribution of
Certified cotton seed in the project area.
16.       Haryana has not enacted a State Seed Quality Control law, nor has
it accepted the GOI Seeds Act of 1969. GOH should enact a Seeds law to
assure that Certified cotton seed to be distributed in the project area
complied with acceptable standards of quality.
17.       Fertilizers.  Fertilizers are distributed to farmers in the project
area by 97 cooperative and privately owned farm service stores. These
stores also distribute plant protection chemicals and spray equipment,
agricultural implements and other inputs. In 1972/73, 500 tons of N, 32
tons of P and 4 tons of K were used; mostly on wheat. This low rate of
utilization on cotton is due to the low responsiveness of the local varieties
to fertilizers without adequate plant protection.
18.       Marketing.  Cotton (kapas) is hand picked from October to early
January. Marketing of the kapas starts in November and continues into March.
The kapas is delivered by the cotton grower to a market yard operated under
the Haryana Regulated Marketing Act where it is displayed, auctioned and
delivered to the buyer, usually an agent for a cotton spinning mill. After
the bargain is struck, the kapas is weighed and delivered to the local
ginnery where the seed is separated from the lint by the ginning process.
The lint, after baling, is shipped to the spinning mill; the seed is sold to
farmers or oilseed processers. Details of the ginning and cottonseed oil
processing industries are given in Annexes 5 and 6, respectively.
19.       A cotton grading service is operated by HDAG at Sirsa.  A fully
equipped laboratory enables the operator to determine color, staple length
and strength and ginning percentage of samples offered by either cotton
growers or ginners. The objective is to help the seller and buyer recognize
and reward a quality product by an appropriate price incentive. So far, the
facility has not been used extensively, buyers offer only a small premium
for quality, i.e. Rs 30 to Rs 70 per 180 kg bale of kapas.
20.       Prices for kapas are supported by CCI operating through the
Haryana State Cooperative Marketing and Supply Federation. A representative
of the cooperatives attends each auction and generally offers the first bid



ANNEX 2
Page 5
on each lot of kapas. In 1972-73, CCI purchased 34% of the kapas marketed
in the project area. However, less than 10% of the marketings were purchased
by CCI in 1973-74 and 1974-75.
B. Maharashtra State and Amraoti District
21.       Maharashtra farmers plant about 2.8 million ha of cotton and
produce 1.0 to 1.5 million bales of lint each year. This is 35 to 40% of
the national cotton area but only 20 to 25X of the national production.
Yields of kapas are about two thirds of the national average. Most of the
cotton produced in Maharashtra is rainfed (See Table 3).
21.       The proposed project area is a part of Amraoti district, located
about 700 km east of Bombay between 2032' and 2146' north latitude and
76037' and 7827' east longtitudLe. See IBRD map 11130. The district covers
an area of 12,150 km2 and is typical of the rainfed cotton area that extends
from Madhya Pradesh to southern Karnataka in the Deccan region. The cropping
pattern for Amraoti district given in Table 4 shows that cotton is planted on
52% of the net crop land. Except for a small area in wheat all crops are
planted and harvested during the kharif season. Less than 2% of the area is
irrigated. There is no assured source of irrigation from groundwater or
perennial rivers in the district. Soils are medium to deep grayish black to
black heavy clays with up to 50% montmorillonite content. Moisture holding
capacity is favorable for cotton and jowar.  The topography is flat to 5%
gently rolling slopes.
22.       The 1971 census reported a population of 1.5 million in Amraoti;
73% were classified as rural. Of the 649,000 workers, 160,000 were classi-
fied as land holder families, 298,000 as landless agricultural workers and
the remaining 191,000 as landless urban workers engaged in trade, commerce,
agro-based industries and services. The average holding has about 2 ha in
cotton each year.
23.       Climate.  December and January temperatures vary between 140C and
29C.  In May, temperatures range up to 40"C.  From mid-June to December,
during the cotton growing season temperatures range between 17C and 34C.
Rainfall averages 785 mm in the district, over 95% of it falling from the
middle of June to the end of October. However, rainfall is highly variable,
from a low of 550 mm to a high of over 1,400 mm. Statistical probabilities
calculated from 39 years of weekly weather data indicate that with a mean
of 136 mm in June, rainfall of less than 102 mm and as low as 60 mm should
be expected one year in five. A maximum ofE up to 240 mm should be expected
one year in nine. With a July mean of 252 mm the expected low is 122 mm
one year in five and an expected high of 432 mm, one year in nine. In
October when present cotton varieties are ready for the first picking, the
expected range from the mean of 38 mm rainfEall is a low of 2 mm and a high
of 118 mm. Cotton yields are below average when rainfall is either above



ANNEX 2
Page 6
or below normal by 20% or more. Yields are adversely effected by above
normal rainfall on the young plants in July and on the maturing crop in
late October. Planting the cotton in ridged and contoured rows to provide
better drainage would help protect the young plants. A later maturing
variety could delay picking until after the monsoon.
24.       Cotton Production.  During 1972-73, the following cotton varieties
were grown:
Area      Percentage of District
Variety            ('000 ha)       Cotton Area
L-147                190.4                55
B-1007                80.4                23
MCU - 5               34.0                10
Hybrid - 4            14.0                 4
Laxmi                  8.3                 2.3
J-34                   1.1                 0.5
AK 235 (Deshi)        18.3                 5.0
C. Deshi               0.4                 0.2
Total          346.9                100
The L-147 variety is planted on more than 80% of the cotton area in the
Amraoti, Achalpur and Daryapur Talukas. B-1007 is superior to L-147 in halo
length. It has velvety leaves that are more tolerant to jassids and more
resistant to angular leaf spot disease. It is planted on the drier soils.
The high yielding variety, Hybrid-4, and the extra long staple variety, MCU-5,
give higher yields than L-147 and B-1007 but their input requirements are
much more and the risk of crop failure without irrigation is greater. In-
dicative yield potential of the leading varieties range between 1,000 and
1,200 kg kapas per ha when grown with ideal rainfall conditions and when
fully protected from insects and diseases. However, most farmers get yields
of 250 to 350 kg per ha, the most progressive farmers up to 600 kg kapas per
ha.
25.       Land Preparation and Crop Culture.  Before the rains come in
June, the land is bare and free from all crop residue except old cotton
stalks. The "black cotton" soils have crumbled during the drying process
since the last rain in October and ploughing is not necessary. Farmers
reported to the mission that inverting the soil with a mouldboard or disc
plow results in a lower cotton yield. They attribute this to their inability
to control seed planting depth in the ploughed loose seedbed, thus lower
germination and a thinner stand.
26.       About 20 kg of seed are used per ha to plant the cotton in rows
about 0.75 meters apart. Usually from 6 to 10 rows of cotton are planted,
then 3 or 4 rows of jowar are planted and then 6 to 10 rows of cotton, etc.
Interplanting was said to reduce risk of a complete crop failure and assist



ANNEX 2
Page 7
in controlling cotton insects. More importantly, the jowar production
represents the tenant or casual laborer's share for weeding and cultivating
the crop. However, this practice unless changed, places a constraint on
the use of cotton insecticides that may be harmful to jowar. Most of the
harvesting is performed by migratory labor. Fertilizer application on cotton
is very low, about 5 kg of N and P per ha.
27.       Seed.  Over 90% of the! seed is obtained by growers from their
cotton gin or cotton marketer. As a general rule, this seed is selected
from the better quality kapas delivered to the gin. After ginning, the
seed is delivered to the farmer or the seed merchant to hold the 5 months
between harvest and the next planting date. There is no assurance of varietal
purity, viability or freedom from insects and diseases. The low quality of
seed planted is a major cause for poor germination and low plant population
per ha.
28.       Fertilizer.  Application is low, averaging about 5 kg N plus K per
ha. The typical rainfed varieties have a low response to fertilizers unless
rains are timely and adequate and bollworms are controlled.
29.       Marketing.  Since 1972-73, COM has been the monopoly buyer of all
kapas from cotton farmers in Maharashtra under the Procurement, Processing
and Marketing Act of 1971. The Maharashtra State Cooperative Market Federa-
tion acting on behalf of GOM, purchases the kapas at prices fixed at the
beginning of the season by varieity and grade. The area of cotton grown by
each farmer each year is registered with the village record keeper.   The
cotton grower delivers his kapas to the designated local market yard where
it is weighed, graded and received by the Coop. The Coop contracts with a
local ginnery to gin the kapas anid deliver the baled lint and cottonseed to
GOM. GOM then sells both products to best advantage. The cotton grower
should receive about 80% of the expected total value of his crop within two
weeks after delivery. Another 10t should be assured in about 4 months, the
remaining 10% may take 10 to 15 months. In addition, GOM deducts all land
revenue and cooperative society loan service payments due, up to 50% of the
value of the crop before paying any cash. However, in late 1974, the cash
payment was reduced to 30%, a second payment of 50% is to be paid in June,
1975, and the remaining 20% by October, 1975. The ginning and cottonseed
crushing market operations are discussed in Annexes 5 and 6.
C. Punjab
30.       Cotton is the major irrigated kharif crop in Faridkot, Ferozepur,
Bhatinda and Sangrur districts. These districts (and Sriganganagar district)
in Rajasthan) adjoin Hissar district in Haryana and comprises a region with
over 800,000 ha cotton annually. Punjab produces about 235,000 ha of hirsutum
averaging 1,200 kg kapas and 270,000 ha arboreum averaging 900 kg kapas



ANNEX 2
Page 8
per ha each year. Cotton competes with maize, paddy, grain sorghum and
millets for the use of land and other resources during kharif. What, rape-
seed and gram are the major rabi crops.
31.       In Faridkot, Bhatinda and Ferozepur, the hirsutum varieties LSS
and 320F, predominate on the adequately irrigated land. On the drier
land and on the waterlogged and saline land in these and other districts,
the G-27 arboreum variety predominates. Other varieties grown include
J-205 and SH131 (Bikineri narma), a non-approved hirsutum variety because
of its coarse fibers. SH131 is gaining in popularity because it matures
in 150 days and enables growers to plant wheat after cotton.
32.       Land tenure, soils, climate, groundwater supply and quality in
the four Punjab districts are similar to Hissar district (paras 4-8). Rain-
fall is slightly more, 350 mm to 450 mm. Cultural practices used are
similar (paras 12-13). However, Punjab cotton growers have a more assured
supply of irrigation water and use more fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals. About 75% of all aerial spraying on cotton in India has been
in Punjab. Pink bollworm and jassids are the major pests, without control
as much as 90% of the bolls become infested.
33.       The proposed project area, Muktsar Block, is in Faridkot district.
About 14,000 growers produce 23,000 ha of cotton. The district produces
about 150,000 ha cotton with 160,000 to 180,000 tons kapas that processes
into 300,000 to 325,000 bales of lint and 110,000 to 125,000 tons of cotton-
seed each year. About 20 kg/ha N is used. The crop receives 1 to 2 aerial
sprays and 3 to 4 ground sprays each year.
D. Cotton Legislation - Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab
34.       In addition to the Procurement, Processing and Marketing Act
described in para 18 above, GOH and GOM have the following legislation that
affect the project:
(a)  Cotton Transport Act -Annexure 2):  This Act, enacted in
1923, empowers GOH, GOM and GOP to prohibit the import of
cotton, cotton waste and kapas or seed cotton by rail, road,
river and sea into specified areas unless required for
special purposes duly licensed. This Act is in operation
in all the major cotton growing states and under it have
notified certain areas. It would be used in the project
to control the movement of seed in the area for planting
and processing.
(b) Cotton Seed Control Act (Annexure 1): A supplementary
legislation to the Cotton Transport Act or the Essential
Commodities Act empowers GOH, GOM and GOP to fix standard



ANNEX 2
Page 9
varieties for cultivation in specif'ied areas and to pro-
hibit the growing, possession, or trade in other varieties
in the specified areas. The Act further provides penalties
for mixing kapas, lint or seed of standard varieties with
prohibited varieties of cotton and one standard variety
with another. This Act 'has been invoked in some States,
including Maharashtra and Haryana, wherein areas have been
notified for compulsory growing of improved varieties of
cotton specially evolved for the tract. It would be
used in the project to delineate single variety areas and
to prevent the mixing of kapas in the field and market
yard.
(c)  Cotton Gin and Pressing Act:   This; Act was enacted in
1925 to maintain lint purity of the improved types. It
prohibits admixture of different varieties during ginning
and pressing. Under this Act every, cotton pressing
factory is supposed to stamp a specially allocated mark
describing the variety on every bale pressed along with
the serial number of the factory. The Act also provides
for submission of weekly returns of' the number of bales
pressed and the regulation of management and structural
needs of the ginning and pressing f'actories which operate
in the proscribed area. This Act would be used in the
project to prevent mixing of kapas at the ginnery and
press factories.
(d)  GOI also enacted the Agricultural P'roduce (Grading and
Marketing) Act in 1937. This Act provides for growing and
marketing of agricultural and other produce including
cotton and cottonseed. Specified varieties are marketed
under "Agmark" as a guarantee of purity.  In 1952, GOI
passed the Forward Contract Act for regulation of forward
trading and prohibition of options on cotton.
(e)  In 1956, the Agricultural Produce Corporation (Development and
Warehousing) Act was enacted to establish and regulate ware-
houses for agricultural produce.
(f)  The Destructive Insects and Pests Act, was enacted in 1914
to prevent the introduction of foreign-pests of cotton by
regulating imports through specified ports and compulsory
fumigation of the imported cotton.
(g)  GOH and GOP have passed the East PunJab Agricultural Pests,
Diseases and Noxious Weeds Act, that authorizes the notifi-
cation of areas in which the control of noxious weeds, insect
pests and plant diseases is mandato,ry or compulsory. Under



ANNEX 2
Page 10
the Act, GOR and GOP can apply the required control measures
and charge the cost to the land occupier as an arrear of land
revenue. GOM has a more general Act that permits similar
actions. These Acts would be used in the project area to
assure the application of recommended plant protection
measures.



AiyTW1' ')
Tabie 1
INDIA
iNTEGRATED COrTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping  lattern in lEaryana
1972  -  1973                 1973  -  1971h
(hala     (0  tons) (st )              ae   Prod. tield
XLQarif Crops
Paddy (rice)    290         462       1594        292       540     1,849
Jowar           180          44        292        186        55       297
Maize           110        t124       1127        118       119     1,009
Bajra           903         467       517         951       689       724
Pulses           24          11        458         24        14       583
Sugar cane(Gur), 125         56     4,477         160        76     4,750
Oilseeds      a222          106       477         230        60      - 261
Cotton (kapas)- 257         211       822         260       225       867
Rabi Crops
Wheat          1,270      2,231      1,757      1,225    1,800      1,469
Gramn           970         551        568      1,020       350       343
Barley          144         149      1,038        125        50       400
Pulses           63          23       365          65        20       300
Croppi.ng Pattern in Hissar
1972 - 1973                1973   191
IQiarif Crops
Bajra           188         106       563
Paddy            17          32      1,684
Cotton
hirsutumn    10          106       975
arborein      99          91       921
Rabi Crops
hWleat          230         380      1,6 52
Gram            329         152       462
a/ Equivalent to 135,000 tons of cottonsee(d in 1972_-73
422,000 bales of lint (180 kg each) 1972-73
144,000 tons of cottonseed in 1973_74
450,000 Dbales of lint in. 1973-74.
July 16, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
INTE'GRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Pattern and Land Utilization, Sirsa Project Area (1972 - 1973)
Area
Irrigated    Non-Irrigated  Total       Production   Yield
- - - - - - (000  )  ----             'OT         kg/ha
Paddy                  10.7              -        I0.7          18.3      1,1OO
Bajra                   16.4           44.9        61.3         24.6         401
Maize                     *4             -          0.4          0.3         720
Jowar  a/               2.7             2.0         4.7           -           -
Cotton:--
Hirsutum       69.6             0.5       70.1          64.0        906
Arboreum       30.1             1.5       31.6          27.0        853
Sugarcane                1.7            0.1         1.8         73.3      3,866
Pulses                   9.2           18.1        27.3           -           -
Wheat                   89.8            3.0        92.8        153.3      1,653
Gram                    43.c           71.6       115.5         53.3         461
Oilseeds               10.2            19.0        29.2         10.7         368
Fodder                  10.0            1.4        11.4           -           -
Other Crops            11.1             4.8       15.9-
Total                  305.8          166.9       472.7
Net Sown Area             -              -          391
Cropping Intensity (Percent)                        121
It lProduction of kapas is equivalent to 127,000 bales (180 kg) of Hirsutum
cotton lint plus 41,000 tons cottonseed and 54,000 bales arboreum cotton
plus 18,000 tons of cottonseed.
July 16, 1975



ANNEX 2
Afble 3
INDIA
INTEGRATED CCTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area & Productiori of Major Crops in Maharashtia, 1971-72
Area          Production       Yield
('000 ha)     (_000 tons)       (kgLa)
Wheat                        839              413           492
Paddy                      1,342            1,318           982
Jowar                      5,885            3,254           552
Bajra                      2,081              639           307
Other Cereals                461              289           627
Pulses                     2,439              844           346
TOTAL fTodgrains          13,047            6,747            _
Cotton: Hirsutum           1,651              4235/         256
Arboreum             0             _09
TOTAL Cotton              2,760             6a!            237
a Kapas: Equivalent to 8441,000 lint bales of 180 kg each and 271,000 tons
cottonseed of the hirsutum varieties,and 461,,000 lint bales and 149,000 tons
cottonseed of the arboreum varieties.
July 16, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Croppirg Pattern and Production of Various Crops in Amraoti District
(1972-1973)
Area                  Production             Yield
(TOO   )               ('000 toas)            (kg/ha)
Paddy                     12                        6                 500
Wheat                     35                       14                 400
Jowar                   182                      131                 719
Bajra                      8                        1                 125
Ither Cereals              6                        2                 333
Filses                    62                       32                 516
Groundnuts - CilaeeJs    36                        30 /               833
Cotton                  365                      126 -               342
Other crops                5                       -                   -
Gross Cropped Area       715                       _                   _
Net Cropped Area         716                       -                   -
a7 Kapas:  Equivalent to 252,000 bales of lint @ 180 kg each and 81,000 tons
of cotton seed.
July 16, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COTTON DEVELOPMENT SERVICE (CDS)
A. Background
Haryana
1.        Sirsa. A Deputy Commissioner with headquarters at Hissar town
is in overall charge of governmenit administration. The district is sub-
divided into two tehsils, each with an Officer-In-Charge and further di-
vided into five Community Development Blocks, each under the charge of the
Block Development Officer. Normally, the District Agricultural Officer and
the CD Block Agricultural Extension Officers are supervised by the Deputy
Commissioner and Block Developmeni: Officers. However, since 1972, the Agri-
cultural Extension staff and program in Haryana has been under the direct
control of the Director of Agriculture at Chandigarh. The Haryana Director
of Agriculture is assisted by 9 Joint or Deputy Directors. One Director
is posted in Sirsa and another in Fateabad. They supervise all Agricul-
tural Extension work including an intensive cotton development program in
the project area. In each of the five Blocks, one Agricultural Extension
Officer and 5 sub-Inspectors are posted. All of the officers are in the
Department of Agriculture cadre. More than half are agricultural college
graduates, but some of them lack aL practical agricultural background. On
the average, one agricultural extension worker has been posted for each
1,800 farmers, who plant an average of 2 ha of irrigated cotton and 2 ha
rainfed cereal crops during Kharif and 2 ha of irrigated wheat and 2 ha of
partially irrigated gram during rabi.
2.        The extension program includes inter alia schemes for wheat pro-
duction, salinity control, soil testing, multiple cropping and livestock
production. These schemes are usually developed by HDAG subject matter
specialists with the assistance of HAU experts. The schemes are discussed
and explained to the Block-level staff who become responsible for implement-
ation with the farmers. Targets are set and the sub-Inspectors receive fol-
low-up training and supervision.
3.        Plant Protection Scheme.  Each year since 1971-72, HDAG
organized and promoted a plant protection scheme with cotton growers to
control jassids and pink bollworm. Sub-Inspectors were trained. Hand and
power operated spray equipment and chemicals were made available for sale
or hire to cotton growers. Arrangements were! made for aerial spraying on a
commercial basis. By 1974-75 about one-third of the Sirsa area was sprayed
1 to 3 times, but only about 5% of the area received 6 to 8 sprays.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        This field experience indicated that:  (a) the organization staff-
ing and departmentally operated or hired equipment were not adequate to
achieve massive farmer participation and effective control; (b) about two-
thirds of the area could be covered by aircraft--trees and electric lines
impede the effectiveness of this type of equipment in other parts of the
area; (c) ground spray equipment including hand and power knapsack sprayers
and tractor sprayers could not operate successfully for the 5th to 8th spray
because of the tall, bushy plant type of the 320-F cotton variety; (d) com-
munity-wide spraying was more effective than scattered individual farmer
operations; (e) and the local labor supply was not adequate to provide a
spray service for the entire area. Yield increases of over 100% were ob-
tained where 6 to 8 sprays were applied on fertilized and irrigated 320-F
cotton.
5.        Field sanitation was not included in the scheme.  More than half
the cotton stalks are harvested and stored in the village compounds and used
for fuel from January to October. The hibernating pink bollworms are re-
leased from these stalks and other dead cotton plant refuse--cotton seed
and spent bolls--and provide a continuous flow of reinfestation to the next
crop. The destruction of the plant residue as required for effective con-
trol of bollworm will be a major social constraint as this is the cooking
fuel supply for low income village families.
Maharashtra
6.        In Maharashtra, under the Panchayat Act the development of agri-
culture, including the management of the Agricultural Extension Service, is
the responsibility of the Zilla Parishad (district elected government agency).
In Amraoti the Zilla Parishad engages an Executive Secretary as the opera-
tional manager of its affairs. A special administrative officer is in charge
of agricultural development. Two Agricultural Extension Officers and 17
Agricultural Assistants are posted in each administrative sub-division
(Taluka), for a ratio of 1 officer per 1,500 farmers and 3,000 ha of crops
including 1,500 ha of cotton. The staff works exclusively on agriculture.
MDAG and the agricultural universities assist the Zilla Parishad and Taluka
officers train the staff. Their major thrust has been plant protection for
cotton and jowar production.
7.        Cotton Plant Protection Scheme.  Various systematic and contact
insecticides such as Dimecron, Thimet, Rogor, Solvirex, Endrin, Malatheon
and Carbaryl are used. In 1972-73, about 11,000 liters and 126 tons of
these materials were applied by a combination of aerial spray, hand pump
and backpack power pump equipment--enough material to provide effective
coverage for less than 5% of the area. Attempts by MDAG and extension
officers to organize and apply group control measures have not been accepted
by farmers. Major problems observed with the present plant protection
activities include the following: (a) tall trees in field borders and along
the rural roads impede the use of aircraft for more than 35 to 50% of the
area; (b) the interplanting of cotton and jowar creates potential pollution



ANNEX 3
Page 3
problems when materials that are not compatible with the jowar are used;
(c) the field and row arrangements impede the use of tractor spray equipment
on more than 15% to 20% of the area; (d) the tall and branched plant type
impedes the use of back-pack pump equipment for the last 3 or 4 sprays in the
fertile fields with full stands; (c) the labor needed to spray the entire
area within 4 or 5 days is not ava:Llable locally; and (f) while cotton with
full protection has yielded 50% to 75% above untreated plots, the value of
the increase has not always covered costs.
Puniab
8.        Under the Intensive Cotton District Program the extension staff
in Faridkot district includes 1 Deputy Director of Agriculture (cotton),
2 Assistant Cotton Extension Officers, 1 Assistant Plant Protection Officer,
1 Assistant Agricultural Engineer, 15 Agricultural Inspectors, 25 Sub-
Inspectors, 25 Beldars, and 10 Mechanics. The Muktsar and Malaut Blocks
share in the posting of this staff with 3 other Blocks.
B. Organizaticon of CDS
9.        General.  To achieve the projected cotton production targets
(2,000 kg per ha in Sirsa and 900 kg per ha in Amraoti within 20 years) a
massive extension-cum-research effort is required. There must be a close
link between research and extension vis-a-vis the development and execution
of the extension program with farmers, the selection and training of the ex-
tension staff, the training of farmers, marketers and others and the selec-
tion and field testing (operational research) of yield-increasing varieties
and cultural practices for recommendation to Earmers.
10.       It is generally agreed that control of cotton insects is a pre-
requisite to obtaining increased cotton yields. It is also generally agreed
that control measures must be applied effectively by all cotton growers in
the area to prevent reinfestation of treated plants. Therefore, GOH and
GOM would be required to promulgate laws that require all farmers in the
specified area to protect the cotton crop from insects and diseases. Govern-
ment agents would determine the field sanitatiLon and chemical control
measures needed. Farmers would be informed and be urged to take the neces-
sary action voluntarily. Government would be prepared to apply the control
measures when necessary, adding the cost to Land Revenue charges. To
strengthen the program further and increase the market value of cotton, laws
would be promulgated that would: (a) specify the variety and quality of
cotton seed to be planted; (b) require ginners to maintain varietal purity
and label each bale of lint; and (c) require the processing of all commercial
cottonseed ginned in the area.
11.       CDS would be responsible for the educational aspects but not the
enforcement aspects of the above laws.  Farmers would be informed of the
one-variety cotton to be planted and insect and disease-free seed supplies
would be made readily available. CDS would organize and execute a program
designed to motivate each cotton grower to destroy all plant residue from



ANNEX 3
Page 4
the previous year's crop by March 1 eacti year and a massive plant protecrtion
program, designed to influence each grower to spray his cotton or to 1wave
it sprayed at the critical times (see paras 2(1 to 25 for more detail).  Cl)S
also would assist ginners and cottonseedi processers improve the qualicy of
their work.  The Zilla Parishad would be resporsible for enforcement of the
decrees.
12.       The Sirsa CDS.  The Sirsa CDS wolkd be nmanaged by a Joint Director
of Agriculture. The Joint Director would be de:4ignated Project Manager and
would report directly to the Director of Agriculture at Chandigarh and would
be a member of the State Project Management Committee. Tle would be assisted
by a Senior Agricultural Extension Officer, a Senier Plant Protection Officer
(Entomologist), an Agronomist and an Irrigation Oflicer. He would also have
a Cotton Ginning and Marketing Officer and a Cotton Processing Specialist to
assist with the marketing and industrial aspects in the project area.
13.       Each Block would have three Agricultural Extension Officers; one
would be in charge, one would be an Agronomist and one a Plant Protection
Officer. At the village level, Agricultural Inspectors would be posted at
the rate of one Al per 600 to 650 cotton farmers; i.e., about 18 per Block.
In addition, the Block Plant Protection Officer would have a part time cadre
of plant protection Field Scouts and spray equipment operators (van and
squad) under his command. These officers would deal with all agricultural
programs in the project area.
14.       The Amraoti CDS.  The Amraoti CDS would be managed by a Joint
Director of Agriculture, designated the Project Manager. He would report
to the Director of Agriculture at Poona and would be a member of the State
Project Management Committee at Bombay. His staff would be organized under
an Extension Section, a Plant Protection Section and a Cotton Marketing and
Industry Section. The Extension Section would have four Agricultural Ex-
tension Officers (AEO) and four Agronomists. Forty-five Agricultural In-
spectors (Al) would be posted, one for each 600 to 650 cotton growers. The
Plant Protection Section (PAS) would have four Entomologists and a cadre
of part-time Field Scouts and spray equipment operators. The Marketing and
Industry Section would have expertise in cotton marketing ginning and cot-
tonseed processing.
15.       The Muktsar CDS.  The Faridkot district agricultural extension
service would be managed by a Joint Director of Agriculture who would also
serve in this capacity in the Muktsar Block project area. In Muktsar Block
he would have three Agricultural Extension Officers; one would be in charge,
one would be an Agronomist and one a Plant Protection Officer. At the
village level, Agricultural Inspectors would be posted at the rate of one
AI per 600 to 650 cotton farmers; i.e., about 18 per Block. In addition,
the Block Plant Protection Officer would have a part time cadre of plant
protection Field Scouts and spray equipment operators (van and squad) under
his command. These officers would deal with all agricultural programs in
the project area. They would have the assistance of the district, PAU and
Punjab Agricultural Department experts in Cotton Plant Protection and Marketing
and Industry.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
16.       CDS Extension Program.  In each project area, a five year action
program and an annual plan of work would be prepared under the Leadership
of the Project Manager. He would be assisited by progressive cotton growers,
cotton marketers, the Agricultural University cotton research staff, ICAR
and the consultants in the development cf hliese plans. The program would
stress the extension, training and field actions needed on a Block and
village basis to achieve the targeted increases in cotton yields and improve-
ments in the ginning and cottonseed marketing industries. It would provide
for extensive operational research and evaluations by the agricultural
university. It would designate who will dci what, where, when and how. The
program and plan of work would also include other crops and livestock in the
project area.
17.       Each AEO would be responsible for the work of eight or nine AIs.
Every month, he would prepare a ?lan of work for the following month. During
the cotton production season (Ma:rcli to November) he would spend four or
five days each week in the field assisting AIs with farmer training and field
demonstration work. He would organize campaigns to convince cotton growers
of the benefits of field sanitat:Lon, use of the recommended seed and cul-
tural practices and area-wide plant protection. He would assist the agri-
cultural university in executing its operational research and field evalua-
tion program.
18.       Agricultural Inspectors.  Eachi Al would be responsible for
providing the cotton extension program to 600 to 650 cotton growers. Usually
this number of farmers would be located in four or five villages. In Sirsa
they would be on the same canal system and irrigation regime. One day each
week the AIs would receive training from the AEO and from specialists
provided by the Project Manager and Agricultural University.  The Al woulcl
arrange to be in each village under his comnand at least once each fortniglht
to meet cotton growers, hold training meetings with them and arrange field
demonstration work. He would organize his group to execute the field sani-
tation and plant protection work.
19.       Progressive Farmers (PF?.  The AEC) and Al would select progressive
cotton growers, one for each 30 to 40 farmers, who understand local farmers
and their needs and who command the respect and confidence of their neighbors.
PF would assist AI and PPS organize and execute the field sanitation and
plant protection program. He would work closely with the Field Scouts
(para 23). He would assist the cooperatives and others distribute certi-
fied cotton seed and provide the seasonal credit as needed (Annex 7).
20.       PF would be trained twice each year with monthly follow-up
training. The AEO, Block Protection Officer and the Project Managers' sub-
ject matter specialists would provide most of the training as arranged by
the AI. There would be about 1,600 PFs in Sirsa and 1,000 in Amraoti.
CDS Plant Protection Service (PPS)
21.       Each Project Manager would have a Senior Plant Protection Spe-
cialist heading up the PPS and a Elant Protection Officer and Field Scouts



ANNEX 3
Page 6
in each Block. The purpose of this CDS section would be to assure more
than 80% voluntary participation of cotton growers with the compulsory
plant protection decree. An effective plant protection program requires:
(a) the destruction of all cotton stalks, unripe bolls, cotton seed and
other plant residue by about March 1 each year; (b) the planting of acid-
delinted seed; and (c) the use of chemicals that destroy the eggs or young
insects before they attack and damage the growing cotton plant.  The ex-
tension program would concentrate on achieving voluntary participation
(paras 15-18).  PPS staff would concentrate on assisting AI and PF and on
providing equipment and materials or spray hire services for cotton growers.
22.       Field Sanitation.  An intensive and successful field sanitation
program would reduce the incidence of bollworm infestation and cause the
spray program to be more effective. In each Block the Plant Protection Officer
in cooperation with the AEO would design and execute a campaign each year
to motivate cotton growers to destroy by burning or deep plowin- ..  o.a
plant residue. The Senior Plant Protection Officer, -.. cooperation with the
CDS Market and Industry section staff would request ginners to destroy all
cotton plant residue in the gin yards. Cottonseed processors would be
required to store their cottonseed in screened warehouses and to fumigate
the building as needed. In those cases where voluntary cooperation had not
been achieved the PPS would report the situation to the Zilla Parishad for
appropriate legal action. Cotton is usually planted from May 1 to 15 --n
Sirsa and Muktsar and June 15 to 30 in Amraoti. InsecL control methods are
mlore effective when the planting date is uniform. The extension program in
each area would advise cotton growers of the optimum planting date and
motivate them to comply.
23.       Field Scouts.  To prevent excessive use of chemicals it is neces-
sary to observe when and where the insects thlt attack cotton lay their eggs.
CO-itrol measures are more efLect4ve if applied to the eggs or the newly
hatched larvae. Field Scouts woulK be posted, one per 200 to 250 ha of
cotton, and trained to determine when and where each type of insect may be
expected to attack. Each Field Scout, some of whom would be PFs or sons of
PFs, would inspect a random sample of growing cotton plants at dawn each
morning. He would report the results of his observations to the AI and the
Block Plant Protection Officer immediately. On confirmation of his findings,
and depending on the expected intensity of the attack, the PPS would organize
and execute the appropriate chemical control program in the affected area.
Field Scouts would function in this manner from early June to late October
in Sirsa and early July to October in Amraoti.
24.       Chemical Control.  PPS would be responsible for execution of the
chemical control program specific for the insect and area identified by
Field Scouts. Their first line of attack, with the help of AI and PF,
would be to motivate cotton growers to apply the spray material by using their
own labor and equipment. PPS would also provide a spray service using either
ground or aerial equipment, which growers could hire. The cost of the
growers' equipment and materials and of the hire services could be financed
by the Seasonal Credit Fund (see Annex 7). It is expected that more than



ANNEX 3
Page 7
80% of the growers would respond voluntarily to the extension effort. How-
ever, for the remainder, PPS would apply the spray material when requested
by the legal authorities, the cost (including interest) would be added to
Land Revenue charges.
25.       The Cotton Marketing and Industry Officer and his staff would be
posted at project area headquarters and would serve all of Hissar and Amraoti
districts. This section would provide marketing extension services directly
to ginners and cottonseed processors and through AEOs to cotton growers.
The staff would assist marketers plan and evaluate the various types of
improvement investments financed by the project. They would help organize
training activities for cotton pickers, ginners, pressers, and oilseed
processors (paras 27-35).
Operational Research
26.       This activity is discussed in more detail in Annex 4, as a function
of ICAR and the agricultural universities. lIowever, to maximize its benefits
the full coordination, cooperation and management assistance of the CDS Proj-
ect Managers and their staff are required. Operational Research (OR) would
be used to test and evaluate advanced cotton production technology on farm-
ers' fields. Unsolved cotton production problems identified by farmers, PFs,
Field Scouts or CDS staff would be communicated to the agricultural univer-
sity. Thus, OR would be a built-in arrangement to facilitate two way com-
munication between the producer and the researcher. The agricultural uni-
versities would also be responsible for assisting the Project Managers plan
and execute "national demonstrations" of the latest package of cotton pro-
duction technology. Terms of Reference are given in Annex 4, Appendix B.
Training
27.       The success of the extension activi.ties depends on all the partici-
pants keeping abreast of the latest developments in their respective fields.
The project would provide a very intensive training program for staff, cot-
ton growers, pickers and marketers. Their work responsibilities and functions
would include organization, management, supervision, technology, extension
methods, work procedures, etc. Planning and execution of training activities
would be the responsibility of the Project Managers, assisted by their staff,
the agricultural universities, ICA]R and consultants.
28.       Extension and PPS SpeciaLists, and Senior Staff.  This group
would be engaged in organization, administration, supervision and education.
The group would be trained as a maniagement team at seminars and workshops
of 4-5 days duration each year under the guidance of experts from the Indian
Administrative Service, the agricuLtural universities and other agencies.
In addition, monthly or bi-monthly one day sessions would be held for follow-
up and coordination of purpose with policy and work activities.



ANN LX 3
Page 8
29.       Agricultural Inspectors.  More than half of this group is ex-
pected to be recent graduates of an agricultural university, some with
limited extension and practical farming experience. The remainder would be
high school matriculates with field experience in extension and agriculture.
The training program would equip them with the cotton production technology
and extension methodology to enable them to contribute their best to the
project's development and success.
30.       The AIs and CDS professional staff would be trained for 10 to 12
days each year in January. The first year's program would concentrate on
the project's objectives and the technology and extension methods to be
used. Later sessions would also review progress and reorient plans based
on the experience. In addition, the entire staff would also be assembled
in June to review plans for PPS operation and again in August to solve field
problems and renew the effort. AIs would also receive training and guidance
from the Block level staff assisted by the Specialists at one day refresher
and planning sessions held every two weeks from February to October,
inclusive.
31.       Progressive Farmers.  PFs would be trained in a two day training
course held each February and June, and in half-day sessions each month
until December. A schedule should be planned so that not more than 50 PFs
attend the same session. Training would concentrate on the practical aspects
of producing cotton and of influencing neighboring farmers.
32.       Field Scouts.  Field Scouts would be trained at several two day
sessions held in June and bi-monthly through September. They would be taught
to identify the local cotton insects and egg deposits. Again in February,
they would be trained in field sanitation procedures. PPS officers, assisted
by the agricultural university Entomologist, would serve as trainers. Field
Scouts would be provided insect identification kits.
33.       Cotton Spray Equipment Operators.  This group includes cotton
growers with their own equipment, technicians and laborers hired to operate
PPS ground spray equipment, and pilots of aircraft hired to operate
in the area. Training would concentrate on equipment operation, care and
maintenance and on procedures and safeguards for mixing and applying the
correct spray materials.
34.       Cotton Pickers.  More than half of the admixtures of immature
bolls, cotton stems and dirt recovered from Indian cottons are caused by
low quality picking and handling. Arrangements would be made to initiate
training sessions with cotton pickers in the field. CTRL would assist with
this training.
35.       Ginners and Cottonseed Processors.  Gin operators and oilseed
processors would be trained by CTRL in 3 to 5 day sessions held in each
project area during the beginning of the season each year. CTRL would
provide refresher training and help solve pending problems. Investors in
new gins, presses and cottonseed processing equipment would depute their
operators for training by CTRL.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Transportation and Equipment
36.       It is essential that CDS staff be highly mobile.  Vehicles,
including 4 wheel drive cars, motorcycles and motorbikes, would be provided.
AI would have motorbikes and visual aid equipment. PPS would have a fleet
of spray equipment vans and trailers, manual and power-operated backpack
sprayers and high wheel tractor sprayers. Field Scouts would have insect
identification kits. In addition, PPS would contract with an agricultural
aircraft spray operator for an aerial spray service.
37.       Farmers in the Sirsa project area own over 5,000 manual and power
operated back-pack pumps. The HDAG has a small fleet of tractors with
mountable spray tanks and booms and spray vans. The Haryana Agro-Industries
Corporation has five agricultural aircraft, and twenty more units are on
order for delivery in 1976 and 1977. In Amraoti cotton growers have about
the same number of sprayers. The Maharashtra Agro-Industries Corporation
has six agricultural aircraft and more are on order. In the Faridkot project
area most of the spraying is performed by agro-aviation on a hired basis.
Cost Estimates
38.       Estimates of CDS costs are detailed in Annex 9, Tables 1, 2 and
3.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COTTON RESEARCH IN INDIA AND THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
1.        The first recorded attempt to introduce and acclimatize improved
Upland varieties of cotton to India was made about 1790 by the British
East India Company. The introduction and testing of Upland varieties
continued through the nineteenth century in attempts to find varieties
superior to the indigenous desi type. These efforts were largely unsuccess-
ful but residues of Upland material remained in the cotton growing tracts
and provided stock for the later development of better varieties.
2.        Breeding programs were started by the State Departments of
Agriculture at the beginning of this century and were strengthened when the
India Central Cotton Committee began to finance research schemes with funds
under the India Cotton Cess Act of 1923. The Committee's research schemes
had as their main objective the development of varieties more tolerant to
pests and diseases and with greater yield potential and better quality. The
work led to the release of such important current varieties as 320F (1951),
H14 (1954), J34 (1966), Deviraj (1952), L147 (1957), Vadnawar 1 (1961), Gu-
jarat 67 (1963), Laxmi (1950), Gaorani (22) and 46 (1959), Digvijay (1954)
and Jayadhar (1950).
3.        On the abolition of the Committee in 1966, the Indian Council of
Agricultural Research (ICAR) took over the co-ordination of cotton research.
In 1967, ICAR established the All India Co-ordinated Cotton Improvement
Project (AICCIP) through which it supports about 30 cotton research stations
in the different agro-climatic regions and the Cotton Technology Research
Laboratory (CTRL) in Bombay. ICAR also finances cotton research projects
within the respective state agricultural universities as well as on state
agricultural research institutes and Indian Agricultural Research Insti-
tute (IARI) stations. Most of the State governments also carry out adaptive
research financed from their own resources. The Indian Cotton Mills Federa-
tion supports research and extension projects in both production and pro-
cessing technology.
4.        Research financed under the AICCIP is largely a continuation of
work begun under the auspices of the India Central Cotton Committee but with
a multi-disciplinary approach to the problems of evolving better yielding
varieties of cotton suitable for the different cotton tracts and to the
development of improved agronomic practices and crop production schedules.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
In breeding, emphasis has been put on the development of long and extra
long staple varieties (G. hirsutum and G. barbadense) for irrigated areas,
and medium staple varieties to replace desi varieties in rainfed areas.
Short duration varieties are sought and, with the object of increasing the
number of plants established per hectare, it is intended to develop both
compact and short branch plant types. The successful commercial development
of Hybrid 4 has led to increased emphasis on the development of hybrid
varieties in order to exploit hybrid vigor.
5.        The breeding of varieties with long and extra long staple has been
notably successful and led to the release to farmers of MCU-5 (1968), Hybrid
4 (1972), Varalaxmi (1972) and two varieties of G. barbadense, Sujata (1968),
and Suvin (1974). Several hundred thousand bales are produced annually of
the two principal varieties, MCU-5 and Hybrid 4. Unfortunately, increased
production of the longer staple varieties, with special price supports,
has been accompanied by GOI measures which have tended to increase the
production of coarse yarns at the expense of the finer types. For example,
mills were obliged to produce 800 million square metres per annum of con-
trolled cloth requiring yarns made from short and medium staple cotton
varieties. These policies led to an imbalance in the production pattern
and a surplus of superior long staple cotton. The total supply of about
2,100,000 bales of longer staple varieties in 1974-75 (including a carryover
of about 400,000 bales from 1973-74) exceed domestic mill requirements by
about 900,000 bales.
6.        The development of varieties with improved textile qualities is
a major research achievement. However, the field characteristics of the new
varieties are not wholly satisfacitory. None of the new varieties are adapted
to the rainfed conditions (80% of India's cotton area) and to irrigated tracts
in north India (10% of the cotton area). They will not provide the additional
production of medium cottons (Annex 1, para 12). They have bushy plants and
require 180 to 270 days to mature. When nutrients and water are in ample
supply, the vegetative growth of t:hese varieties makes it difficult to use
ground spraying equipment. In some cases the plants must be staked to pre-
vent lodging. A long crop season makes pest control costly: for example,
a schedule of 12 to 14 sprays is recommended for Hybrid 4 and MCU-5. Lack
of knowledge of the most effective time to apply insecticides has led to
the application of many more sprays than necessary in order to ensure high
yields. The average cost of one spray (insecticides plus application) is
now Rs 70 to Rs 80 per ha. The cost of producing hybrid cotton, which re-
quires costly inputs of seed, fert:ilizer and insecticides, would be pro-
hibitive if farmers were not guaranteed a higher price than the quality
of hybrid lint warrants.
7.        Research programs need to be re-oriented to correct the imbalance
in the pattern of national cotton production. There is a need for short
season varieties of 150 to 160 day maturity that fit into double-cropping
systems in the irrigated areas and are easier to manage on rainfed farms.
Short season varieties require less water and less expensive pest control



AN,4EX 4
Page 3
and have been shown to be less subject to pink bollworm infestation than
long duration types. Plant tolerance to other pests and disease, particularly
jassid and bacterial blight, is also desirable and a compact plant habit will
make pest control and picking easier where conditions are favorable for
plant growth. The increasing cost of pest control, and the probability that
supplies of particular insecticides may be more difficult to obtain in the
future than they were in the past, point to the need to develop integrated
pest control measures, combining insecticide use with crop resistance to
pests and an effective clean-up of crop residues at the end of season. It
is important that pest control is made easier and cheaper for farmers.
B. Haryana Cotton Research
8.        Cotton research in Haryana is the responsibility of the Agricultural
University (HAU) at Hissar. The senior staff consists of a cotton botanist,
three assistant breeders, one cotton agronomist, one assistant entomologist,
one assistant plant pathologist, an assistant chemist and an assistant sta-
tistician. One of the assistant breeders, the agronomist and the assistant
chemist are financed by ICAR. Agronomic and pest control work commenced
with the founding of the University in 1969-70. Cotton breeding started in
1972-73 and is a continuation of the work previously carried out at Hansi
Experiment Station. More than 80% of the area under cotton in Haryana is
located in Hissar district, which has two distinct cotton zones, Hissar zone
-(43,000 ha cotton) and Sirsa zone (154,000 ha cotton) with different varieties
and pest control requirements. At present HAU carries out research only in
the Hissar zone.
9.        The main cotton varieties grown in Haryana are the medium
staple Upland varieties, 320F and H14; and the short staple desi variety
G27 which is grown where farmers are less certain of adequate supplies of
irrigation water. The variety 320F is grown on about 97,000 ha in the Sirsa
zone. It has a strongly vegetative plant habit and a crop duration, in-
clusive of time needed for land preparation and harvest, of eight to nine
months (April to December). Released to farmers in 1951, 320F is a selection
from LSS, a variety released in 1933 and still grown in Punjab State. H14,
which has a less bushy plant habit, is grown in the wetter south-east areas,
where pink bollworm present a special problem. The variety flowers earlier
than 320F and bolls escape the late and worst infestation of pink bollworm.
Because it has heavily fuzzed seed and a poor kapas appearance, H14 is less
popular than 320F (semi-naked seed) in the Sirsa zone. H14 was released
to farmers in 1954 and the desi variety, G27 in 1969.
10.       Lack of an efficient seed multiplication system has led to loss
of seed purity, and in the breeding program priority has been given to
reconstituting 320F for distribution to farmers in the project area, using
the model bulk technique proposed by H. L. Manning. A hybridization and
selection program aims at the development of varieties with as good quality



ANNEX 4
Page 4
as 320F, higher yield potential and a shorter crop duration.  A short crop
season will reduce the period for which the crop is exposed to infestation
by pink bollworm and will permit farmers to crop their land twice each year
where sufficient irrigation water is available. Wheat, the favored winter
crop, is sown in mid November to early December and can follow existing
cotton varieties only if they are harvested by the end of October. None of
the strains earmaked as possible replacements is so strikingly better than
320F that they are likely to have immediate appeal to farmers.
11.       The most damaging pests of cotton in Haryana are jassid, spotted
bollworm and pink bollworm. In other cotton growing countries heavy
damage to cotton by pink bollworm is a sign of bad crop sanitation. Haryana
is no exception. Sources of carryover of piik bollworm from one crop to
the next are debris remaining in fields, stalks kept for fuel and infested
seed. The entomologist cooperates with breeders in screening selections
for resistance to jassid and for a flowering pattern that avoids periods of
maximum bollworm infestation of the crop. Studies are made of the carry-
over of pink bollworm, of the chemical control of pests and spray schedules.
The recommended pest control schedule is four sprays of a systemic in-
secticide, such as dimethoate, beginning in the latter half of June to con-
trol jassids and other sucking pesits and followed by four sprays of carbaryl
to control bollworm. The results of large-scale demonstration trials,
carried out by the extension services, suggest that an eight spray schedule
may result in a 60 to 100% increase in kapas yield and a four spray schedule
in a 25 to 30% increase. Spraying is therefore worthwhile. Research should
now be extended to the development of an economic pest control system for
the main Sirsa cotton growing area,, with emphasis on pest scouting and
trials of alternative types of equipment.
12.       The agronomic program is made up partly of trials common to re-
search stations in the northern zone of AICCIP (but differing in detail)
and partly of trials concerning specific local problems. Under AICCIP,
tests are made on the responses to fertilizer of G. hirsutum varieties, the
timing and method of application of fertilizers, sowing dates and plant
spacing, tillage requirements, the relationship between irrigation and
fertilizer application, methods of economizing on the use of irrigation
water, the use of herbicides for weed control and more intensive cropping
systems. Non co-ordinated trials are done on the effects of pruning,
green manuring, dates of sowing and the application of hormones to prevent
shedding. Fertilizer trials have led to the recommendation that farmers
use 40 to 60 kg nitrogen per ha applied half at thinning and half at
flowering. Heavier and early applications of nitrogen lead to rank
growth in the present varieties. The application of 40 kg nitrogen per
ha gives an increase of 150 to 200 kg kapas. Normally there is little
response to phosphate or potash. A full response to fertilizer application
depends on pest control and availability of irrigation water, which some-
times is in limited supply. This underscores the need to use water supply
economically. It has been found that a substaLntial saving in water use may



ANNEX 4
Page 5
be obtained by adopting skip row planting with furrow irrigation between
the planted rows. This work should be developed further and then extended
to commercial farms, with a supporting program of land grading and levelling.
13.       HAU has more than 1,000 ha of farm land at Hissar.  About 250
ha is used for field experiments and the remaining 750 is used to produce
Breeder and Foundation seed for most of the crops grown in Haryana. There
are ten tubewells providing water for about 200 ha. Breeder and Foundation
seed of the H14 and G 27 varieties are produced on the farm, but there is
not sufficient land to continue the production of seed of these varieties
and other seed crops and also produce Breeder and Foundation seed of 320F
for the project areas.
14.       HAU has no land at Sirsa, where about 50 ha will be needed for
experimental work on cotton. A further 80 ha will be required for the
production of Breeder and Foundation seed. HDAG operates a farm of about
120 ha in Sirsa and IARI has an adjoining station of about 20 ha with lab-
oratories and buildings. Transfer of both areas and their facilities to
HAU would prevent duplication of research effort and ensure that the univer-
sity, with staff and equipment provided by the project, can provide adequate
amounts of Breeder and Foundation seed and the research backing needed.
C. The Cotton Research Station at Sirsa
15.       ICAR finances a regional cotton research station at Sirsa in the
central part of the project area. IARI is responsible for its management.
The station, established in 1958, has concentrated on crop breeding and
the field testing of promising new cotton varieties on its 20 ha canal-
irrigated farm. The short-branched varieties SS167 and SS265 have been
under trial since 1967 and 1965, respectively, to assess their suitability for
commercial release. The most successful variety developed at the station
has been SH131 (Bikaneri), a very early though bushy variety.  Sown in mid
May, Bikaneri can be harvested by mid October, in good time for sowing a
rabi crop of wheat. Bikaneri has a short coarse fibre and has not been
accepted by the All Indian variety control committee. However, farmers have
been able to obtain seed and like the variety for its earliness. Thus, its
cultivation is spreading.
16.       The cadre of IARI professional staff at Sirsa provides a balanced
research team but, at present, the staff is reduced to an assistant
breeder and an assistant chemist. It is important that research in Sirsa
zone be transferred to HAU and strengthened to support extension in the
project area.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
D. Maharashtra Cotton Research
17.       About 2.8 million ha are sown to col:ton in Maharashtra each year,
a greater area than that of the Brazilian cotl:on crop. Most of the crop
is raingrown and the average yield for the State is only 80 to 90 kg lint
per ha. Uncertain rainfall, low response varieties and inadequate pest
control are major problems.
18.       The Agricultural Universities at Akcxla, Rahuri and Parbhani are
responsible for cotton research. Raingrown cotton production is studied
at Akola and Nanded and irrigated production aLt Rahuri. There are also
field stations at Achalpur in the project area and at Amravati, Kalegaon,
Poona and Phalton. The Fifth Plan allocated about US$1.0 million for cotton
research at these stations. Research work in the Amraoti district project
area is the responsibility of the Akola Agricultural University (AAU) at
Akola, and its field station at AchLapur. AAU"s staff under AICCIP consist
of a senior plant breeder (in charge) an assistant breeder, an agronomist,
a statistician, an assistant entomoLogist and an assistant soil scientist.
Another assistant breeder and an assistant agronomist are posted at Achalpur.
Seven other breeders supervise the production of Breeder and Foundation seed
of all kinds, including cotton.
19.       The Agricultural University at Akola was established in 1969.
About 1,200 ha of potentially irrigated cropland is available for the pro-
duction of Foundation and Certified seed crops. A further 2,000 ha of
other cropland is available for field trials a;nd the production of Breeder
seed. The location of fields permit: the isolation of cotton seed production
so as to prevent cross pollination. AAU has a small air conditioned and
temperature controlled seed storage facility which is used for long term
storage of Breeder seed samples. It also has a small seeds laboratory and
seeds processing facility which would need expansion under the project.
In 1974-75, the cotton research team supervised schemes for the production
of Breeder and Foundation seed of seven cotton varieties.
20.       The principal cotton varieties grown in Amraoti district are
L147 and B1007, which were released for multip]Lication in 1957 and 1961,
respectively. They are medium staple varieties, with bushy plant habit and
a crop season of 180 to 200 days. B1007 can be spun to somewhat finer
yarn counts than L147. Two new varieties are to be released, DHF286 to
replace B1007 and a desi variety, AKH4, to replace AK235. DHY286 is similar
to B1007, it has yield superiority of 14% more kapas. AKH4 has given 6%
greater yield than AK235 in 11 years trials. Varieties to be tested further
prior to a firm decision on their release are Ach2, Ach6, AC719 and AC726.
In nine years trials Ach2 and Ach6 have given 14 and 20% better yield of
kapas than B1007. AC719 gave a marginally better yield than L147 and Ac726
a similar average yield to L147 in four years cf trials. These varieties are
not greatly superior to existing varLeties and they are not likely to be
accepted by AICCIP's official variety committee.



ioL oX 4
Page 7
21.       The breeding program at Akola aims to develop a more compact and
short branched type capable of being sown at a density of 100,000 plants
per ha. Wider adaptability is sought by making up multiline strains and at
the same time, attempts are being made to develop hybrids with better yield
potential than Hybrid 4 and Varalaxmi for raingrown cultivation. Another
project is the development of varieties of 120 days duration to permit
multiple cropping.
22.       The pest complex is different from that at Haryana.  Pink bollworm
is still an important pest but diapause larvae are less common in seed
than they are in Haryana. The main carryover is in crop residues. The
dangers of bad crop sanitation were well demonstrated on the University farm
where at the same time of the mission visit in May, unpulled cotton stalks
and adjoining out-of-season cotton provided a reservoir of live pink boll-
worm larvae. Loss of crop to pink bollworm is most serious on long season
varieties or where the growing season is prolonged by late rains. Spotted
bollworm is also important but in the last five years American bollworm
has become the major cotton pest and begins to infest the crop as soon as
the first squares appear. An insecticide screening program is carried out
and emphasis is put on the use of carbaryl for the control of spotted and
pink bollworms and on DDT, endosulfan and monocrotophos for the control of
American bollvorm. DDT is a preferred insecticide because of its cheapness.
A four spray schedule is recommended for raingrown cotton. The average
yield of cotton in the project area is 320 kg kapas per ha and the increase
of 50 to 60% yield expected from spraying is not attractive at present cot-
ton prices. Scouting techniques must be developed in order to avoid un-
necessary spraying and associated agronomic research must aim at providing
farmers with a greater assurance of good yields and a better return from
pest control.
23.       Agronomic work under AICCIP is similar to that conducted at
Hissar with trials on crop fertilizer needs, the timing and method of
application of fertilizers, growth hormones, herbicide use, intercropping
and the maximization of crop yields. Under the All India Co-ordinated
Research Project on Dryland Agriculture further trials are carried out on
methods of intercropping, weed competition and seed treatment. Tests are
also carried out on methods of establishing cotton prior to the monsoon,
using various methods of watering. These are giving promising results.
24.       MU and MDAG operate a 16 ha research field station at Achalpur
in the project area. Breeding, pesticide and agronomy trials are carried
out and station staff and facilities are used to train district Agricultural
Extension Staff and farmers in crop production techniques.
25.       The Agricultural University at Rahuri (RAU) uses about 700 ha of
irrigated land for the production of Breeder, Foundation and Certified seeds,
including 80 ha of cotton. RAU has about 800 ha additional crop land which
is used for research trials. The staffing pattern and research program are
similar to that of MAU.   Most of the cotton research is directed at solving
the problems of irrigated cotton production in central and western Maharashtra.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
26.       The Agricultural University at Parbhani (PAR) has about 600 ha
of cropland used for the production of Breeder, Foundation and Certified
seeds, mostly hybrid jowar, hybrid bajra and raingrown G. arboreum cotton.
Crop breeding research concentrates on these crops. About 80 ha of desi
Foundation seed is produced each year. The variety AKH4 shows promise of
replacing the local desi variety.
E. Tpuab Cotton Research
27.       The agricultural university at Ludhiana is responsible for crop
research and the production of Breeder and Foundation seed. Cotton research
in plant breeding, agronomy and irsect and disease control is performed at
Ludhiana (the University) and at the Jullunder (Central Zone) and Faridkot
(Southwest Zone) regional stations. Breeder seed production is maintained
at each station and at the Abohar regional station in Ferozepur district.
Varieties bred and released for grower use include K-34 (1966) G-27 (1969)
and J-205 (1972). J-34 and J-205 were developed from LSS and 320-F and
have similar plant and fiber characteristics.
28.       Existing cotton varieties have ceritain weaknesses that a strength-
ened research program should try to correct. Among the hirsutums the LSS
and 320F make a heavy and bushy vegetative growth on fertile adequately
watered soils. Under these conditions, flowering is delayed and light,
many bolls drop and those that remain are attacked by pink bollworms. LSS
requires 270 days, 320-F matures in 200 days;; both are too late for wheat.
J-34 and J-205 are more tolerant to jassid. PAU has a new variety, currently
in its fourth year of field trials, that matures in 150 days and produces
25 to 40% more than other hirsutum varieties. The arboreum G-27 produces
satisfactorily under a wide range of environmental conditions such as
drought, temporary waterlogging, insect pests and diseases. It is more
responsive to nitrogen. However, with a fiber length of 16 mm and a spin-
ning count of 6 (compared with 22 to 26 mm fiber length and 29 to 35 spin-
ning count for the above hirsutums) it fetches a lower price.
29.       Research objectives include the development of high yielding
varieties of short stature (120-131) cm tall) with compact and sympodial
growth habits and 150-180 days from planting to completed harvest. The
fruiting coefficient should be above 50%. The variety should have a high
resistance to insects and diseases. Although commercial seed of the recom-
mended varieties is available, there is no assured supply of high quality
cotton seed that is true to varietal characteristics. A strengthened re-
search program that includes cotton breeding, agronomy, plant protection
and a Breeder-Foundation seed production program would help solve these
major problems of cotton productioin.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
F. Conclusions and Research Priorities
30.-      To be a success a crop extension program must have something
worthwhile to offer - a new variety or management practice that can be seen
by farmers to be in their interest to adopt. A sound research component is
essential for the continued success of a crop development project.
31.       Kapas yields in Haryana and Punjab are low for irrigated cotton
and in Amraoti for a rainfed crop. Causes of poor yields are:
(a) the use of mixed seed of low viability and
infested with bollworm;
(b) poor insect control;
(c) poor management practices;
(d) insufficient water (rainfall is uncertain in
Maharashtra and irrigation water in short supply
in Haryana); and
(e) lack of varieties suitable for growing at a high
level of management.
32.       Insect control if used at all, is often achieved by excessive use
of insecticide. Some growers in south India apply as many as 40 sprays to a
crop of cotton. But usually farmers are deterred from spraying by the cost
of insecticide, the excessive labor needs of knapsack or foot operated
sprayers and the problems of maintaining equipment. Farmers will adopt
spraying more readily if it is made cheaper and easier for them. Research
in entomology and other disciplines must be strengthened to achieve this
objective with emphasis put on an integrated approach combining resistant
varieties, treated seed, crop sanitation methods and insecticide control.
Insect monitoring techniques are needed so that insecticides can be used
to greater effect and unnecessary and costly sprays avoided. Timeliness
of spraying is especially important for the control of American bollworm
which is a major pest in Amraoti district. The experience of the Pakistan
Punjab suggests that it is likely to become important in the northern cotton
areas of India also. Spraying equipment needs to be carefully evaluated
in order to advise the extension staff what is best to use and to feed back
information to manufacturers on weaknesses and ways in which their equipment
can be improved. Lightweight, battery operated and hand-held ULV 1/ sprayers
merit investigation, and the recent adoption of aerial spraying brings new
problems concerning the best equipment and formulations to use.
1/   ULV: Ultra low volume.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
33.       Poor cultivation practices are only partly a result of farmers'
lack of awareness of means of improving their crops or of their inability
to invest in new projects. For example, a poor crop stand may result from
the poor seed available or the failure of the early rains or a combination
of the two. Uncertain or inadequate crop water supply is a major factor
affecting crop potential and the willingness of farmers to invest in inputs.
This particularly affects farmer response in raingrown crop areas. There
are 6.6 million ha of raingrown cotton in India, 3.6 million ha of which
are in areas of scarce rainfall, aad work on crop management in these areas
should receive the highest priority. The shortage of irrigation water in
Haryana also emphasizes the need for further development of the work already
begun on more economic watering practices.
34.       Many of the existing varLeties, including 320F, LSS and L147, have
the potential to give modest yield increases when supplied with adequate
water and nutrients and protected From pests. However, removal of factors
limiting the production of these varieties leads to luxuriant growth and to
management problems. Acceptable riaplacement varieties must have high yield
potential and a compact plant habit, be more responsibe to fertilizer, and
have a growing season of about 150 days and desirable insect and disease
resistance. In Hissar and Faridkot districts a medium staple variety is
needed to replace 320F and LSS. In Amraoti a long or medium staple replacement
is needed for L147 and B1007 Despite long standing breeding programs none
of the possbile immediate replacements for these varieties fulfill the above
criteria. There is an urgent need to accelerate the development of these new
types of cotton as a part of the AICCIP program.
G. The Project; Research Program
35.       The project would strengthen the cotton research, operational
research and training activities oi the Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab
agricultural universities and of the CTRL at Bombay.  The existing AICCIP
program at the agricultural universities would be supported and expanded
to include, but not be limited to:
(a) the breeding of medium staple higher yielding short
season (150-160 days) varieties of a compact plant
type with acceptable staple length and textile qualities
which fit into multiple cropping systems in the irrigated
areas of northern India and are easier to manage in
the rainfed areas of Maharashtra and other regions;
(b) the development and field testing in the project areas
of more effective methods to prevent. and/or control
cotton insects and diseases including more resistant
short season varieties, field sanitation, area control,
chemical control, spray equipment and methods of



ANNEX 4
Page 11
organizing and executing effective integrated pest
control measures;
(c) improved cultural practices including variety testing,
planting dates, fertilizer rates and methods of
application, skiprow irrigation, contour ridging and
drainage.
Project financing would provide the buildings, laboratory and field equipment,
staff and technical assistance needed. Details are given in Annex 9.
ICAR
36.       ICAR would be responsible for overall supervision of the cotton
research and training program. It would, with the advice of consultants,
assist the agricultural universities and CDS Project Directors:
(a) plan and implement a five-year and an annual
intensive cotton research program;
(b) plan and implement a five-year and an annual
field testing (operational research) and demonstra-
tion program in each project area;
(c) plan and implement an intensive training program for
the research and CDS staff, cotton farmers and plant
protection workers and with CTRL assistance for cotton
pickers and operators of cotton gins and cottonseed
processing facilities (also see Annex 3).
ICAR would develop a collaborative arrangement, acceptable to IDA, with
one or more international institutions for the technical assistance required
by the project. Administrative arrangements are given in Annex 8. Terms
of reference for technical assistance are in Appendix C.
The Agricultural Universities
37.       The staff responsible for cotton research at each institution
would be increased as needed to broaden the scope and expand their effort in
a multidiscipline approach. The Universities would be provided consultant
assistance in cotton breeding, plant protection and agronomy. The univer-
sities would select qualified graduates for overseas advanced training in
sciences related to cotton production. Key staff members along with key CDS
personnel would be selected for overseas travel and study of activities
related to their project work.
38.       The university staff at Hissar, Ludhiana and Akola, with the aid
of ICAR and the consultants, would assist CDS Project Directors develop the
five-year and annual plan of work for the cotton extension progam in the



ANNEX 4
Page 12
project area. In each case the extension program would include university
sponsored operational research, anc demonstraLion. acrivities on cotton growers'
fields.  Results would be evaluatec and used to plan the next year's plan of
work. The university research staff would help CDS design the plant protection
program and evaluate its effectiveness. They would assist the Project Direc-
tor train CDS Extension and Plant Frotection staff (Annex 3). The other
universities would, with ICAR under the AICCIP, expand their on-campus and
operational research work on cottor growers' fields.
H. Breeder and Foundation Seed Production
39.       The breeder of a new crop variety or his trained staff under his
supervision are best qualified to produce the Breeder seed and multiply it
to Foundation seed for use by seed agencies in the production and distribu-
tion of Certified seed to farmers. Appendix A includes a technical definition
of Breeder, Foundation and Certified seed multiplication stages. Under the
project, cotton breeders at each agricultural university would supervise the
production and processing of the cotton variet:ies selected for multiplica-
tion into Certified seed. Foundati3n seed meeting minimum standards of
genetic purity and viability would be produced for the seed development
corporation and other seed marketers.
40.       Poor seed, damaged by pink bollworm, results in poor stands of
mixed varieties. The techniques of good seed production are well known, and
their implementation depends on good organization and the release of a
variety that is so much better than existing varieties that farmers readily
accept its cultivation in a one varLety area. Mixed varieties can be re-
constituted using the modal bulk technique recommended by Manning. Thereafter,
material is best maintained by a plant to progeny system.  Plant selections
are made annually in the field and :,urther screened by laboratory tests, but
judgement on which selections to bu;.k is reserved until progeny rows are
grown. As many as 500 rows may be bulked to give a new nucleus of seed.
This method ensures that each component of the nucleus has been carefully
scrutinized.
41.       The project would finance the land development, field equipment,
seed processing and storage equipment and buildings needed to produce the
Breeder and Foundation cotton seed requirement3s for Haryana, Maharashtra and
Punjab.  She area and amount oi seed requIlred are given in Table 1.  The
university cotton seed experts would help train growers and processors to
produce and market Certified seed.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON 1)EVELOPIENT PROJECT
ESTDIATE OF SEED REQUTEIVENTS
Kapas    Total     Quality    Seed        Seed
Area      Yield    Seed       Seed,/      Yield     Production
7         kgs/ha   kgs/ha    Factor X   kgs/ha    Tons
Sirsa Project Area (110,000 ha)
Breeder seed                 7      1,000      650        60         400          3
Foundation seed            120      1200       780        65         500         60
Certified seed            3014       A500      975        75         730       o20o
(70% to 80g 320 F and 20% to 30% G-27)
Aniraoti Project Area (50,000 ha)
Breeder seed                60       400       260        55         140         8
Foundation seed            400       500       325        60         195         75
Certified seed            *675       600       390        70         275      1,000
(80% to 90% L-147 and 10% to 20) arboreum)
Nvaharashtra (other than Amraoti)
Breeder seed               394       400       260        55         140         55
Foundation seed           2625        500      325         60        195        510
Certified seed           2co00       600       390        70         275      7,0OO
(To be allocated to the appropriate hirsutur, and arboreum varieties)
Punjab (1/3 ofthe seed requirement for 500,000 ha cotton)
Breeder seed                10      1,000      650        60         400          4
Foundation seed            180      1,200      780        65         500         90
Certified seed            1400      1,600     1w040       75         780      3500
(To be allocated to approvfriate hirsutum and arboreum varieties)
I/   Assumes 65"o of kapas is seed and that only the first three or four picldngs
are of acceptable seed quality. Seed from later pickings tend to be
immature and infested with bollworm.
July 30, 19575



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINIMUM SEED CERTIFICATION STANDARDS FOR COTTON (Gossypium spp.)
I.   Application and Amplication of General Seed Certification
Standards:
The General Seed Certification Standards are basic and,
together with the following specific standards constitute
the standards for certification of cotton.
II.   Land Requirements:
Land to be used for production of seed must be free of
volunteer plants of cotton.
III.   Field Inspection:
A minimum of two inspections shall be made from the time
of flowering to harvesting.
IV.   Field Standards:
A.  General requirements:
1.   Isolation:
A minimum isolation distance of 50 meters for
Foundation seed class and 30 meters for Certified
seed class shal:L be provided from fields of other
varieties of the same species, fields of the same
variety not conforming to varietal purity require-
ments for certification, and fields of other species.
B.   Specific requirements:
/a
Factor                                   Maximum permitted (%)
Foundation Certified
Offtypes                                     0.10        0.20
/a   Maximum permitted at the final inspection.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 2
V.   Seed Standards:
Factor                                    Standards for each class
Foundation     Certified
Pure seed (minimum)                          98.0%            98.0%
Inert matter (maximum)                        2.0%             2.0%
Other crop seeds (maximum)                    5/kg             0.10%
Weed seeds (maximum)                          5/kg             0.10%
Germination (minimum)                        60%              60%
Moisture (maximum)                           10.0%            10.0%
For vapour-proof containers (maximum)    6.0%               6.0%
VI.   Ginning:
Ginning of cotton should be done on one-variety gins or
gins approved by the certification agency.
VII.   Definitions
A.  Breeder Seed is seed or vegetative propagating material
directly controlled by the originating or sponsoring
plant breeder of the breeding program or institution
and/or seed whose production is personnally supervised
by a qualified plant breeder and which provides the
source for the initial and recurring increase of
Foundation seed.
B.  Foundation Seed shall be the progeny of Breeder seed or
be produced from foundation seed which can be traced to
Breeder seed. Production shall be supervised and ap-
proved by the certification agency and be so handled
as to maintain specific genetic identity and purity and
shall be required to conform to certification standards
specified for the crop being certified.
C.   Certified Seed shall be seed certified by the certifica-
tion agency (under section 8 of the Seeds Act of India,
1969, as amended) shall be the progeny of Foundation
seed and its production shall be so handled as to main-
tain specific genetic identity and purity according to
the standards specified for the crop being certified.



ANNEX 4
Appendix B
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operational Research (OR)
Terms of Reference
1.        These terms of reference are suggestive only and are provided to
illustrate methods of testing high:Ly promising cotton production technology
on growers' fields in the project area. A five year program and annual plans
of work for OR would be developed ior Sirsa and Amraoti by ICAR, the agricul-
tural universities and the CDS Project Director and staff, assisted by the
consultants. Highly promising techmology to be field tested or demonstrated
and evaluated could include:  (a) new variety field trials; (b) fertilizer
response trials; (c) water use and irrigation methods (Sirsa only); (d) con-
toured and ridged rows (Amraoti only); (e) insect control materials, methods
of application; and (f) organization and management systems for extension
and plant protection services.
Example of TOR for Organization and Managemenl:
Plant Protection Service
Amraoti Project Area
2.        Objective:  To determine iehich alternative organization and
management technique maximizes cotton insect control (for the first year).
3.        Methodology: The 50,000 ha of cotton land would be arranged in
25 grids of about 2,000 ha cotton each.  The 25 grids would be allocated
on the basis of random sampling into:
(a)  Five units where no CDS effort would be made to motivate
cotton growers to practice field sanitation and spray their
cotton. These units would serve as controls.
(b) Five units where the CDS extension wing used intensive
extension methods to motivate cotton growers to practice
field sanitation and a spray schedule. Materials and
manually operated equipment would be made available at
the local cooperative farm stores, but for hire spray
services would not be offered.



ANNEX 4
Appendix B
Page 2
(c) Eight grid units would use Progressive Farmers. In
addition to an intensive extension effort, a ground
equipment spray for hire service would be available in
four units and an aircraft spray service in four units.
(d) Seven grid units would be operated as in (c) above except
that Progressive Farmers would not be used as communication
agents.
(e) The above sub-samples would be further stratified by
arranging field trials with selected farmers to measure
and demonstrate the joint effect of plant protection and
the use of HYV seeds, fertilizers and other inputs.
4.        Field scouts would be posted in each grid units and trained to
report the onset of insect infestation and the effect of the methods used to
destroy them. The Agricultural University and CDS Entomologists would
evaluate the potential infestation and degree of insect control achieved.
The Agronomists and AEOs would evaluate the joint effect on the demonstra-
tion farms.
5.        Results:  The evaluated results would be used to prepare the next
year's plan of work including the organization and management of the CDS and
PPS.



ANNEX 4
Appendix C
Page 1
INDlA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance - Terms of Reference
A. Consultants
1.        ICAR would be responsible for the development of a collaborative
arrangement, acceptable to IDA, with one or more internationally recognized
institutions for the consultants described below. The consultants would be
posted with the Hissar and Akola Agricultural Universities and would also
advise the agricultural universities at Ludhiana, Rahuri and Parbhani. The
project would finance the foreign exchange costs and all domestic costs for
travel and substance, free from any domestic income tax.
Cotton Breeders (two for 30 months each)
(a) The Cotton Breeders would advise and assist the project
universities to create new cotton varieties with acceptable
lint qualities, high yield potential, short compact plant
habit responsive to fertilizer, a growing season of 150-160
days, and improved resistanLce to insects and diseases. They
would advise and assist the universities coordinate cotton
research and extension work with other applicable disciplines.
They would participate with, the universities in assisting the
CDS Project Director develop a five-year and annual plans of
work which would include operational research, field testing
and demonstrations in the project areas. They would assist
in the training of university cotton research staff and
CDS staff as requested.
(b)  Qualifications would include extensive training and experience
as a cotton breeder and international experience in cotton
breeding and development.
Cotton Plant Protection Consultants (two for 30 months each)
(a)  The Consultants would be posted, one at HAU and one at AAU.
They would advise and assist the CDS Project Director and
staff of the respective project areas to plan and execute the
compulsory plant protection services, including the selection
of sub-areas for special operational research treatment, the



ANNEX 4
Appendix C
Page
organization and training of the extension and plant protection
field staff; the organization, training and supervision of
of ground crews and aerial pilots in spraying techniques,
and the evaluation of results. They would assist and
advise the agricultural universities in the planning and
execution of improved cotton insect and disease research
programs designed to develop more effective and economic
control systems including the testing of equipment for
manual, tractor and aerial spraying as well as on formula-
tions and their application.
(b) Qualifications would include extensive training and interna-
tional experience as a Cotton Entomologist including the
application of control measures on an area basis.
Rainfed Cotton Management Consultant (one for 24 months)
(a) This consultant would advise and assist the Akola and
Parbhani Agricultural Universities plan and execute an
expanded agronomy research and extension program on rain-
grown cotton with the object of development management
practices that stabilize cotton yields under Maharashtra
rainfall conditions. He would advise and assist AAU and
the Amraoti CDS Project Director develop the long range
and annual extension plans of work for the project area.
The plans would include operational research, field trials
and demonstrations of selected agronomic practices and the
evaluation of resultes. He would advise the other agri-
cultural universities on cotton agronomy research and
extension programs.
(b) Qualifications would include extensive training and experience
as a cotton agronomist under rainfed and soils conditions
similar to those found in Amraoti.
Short Term Assignments (16 man-months)
2.        The project would provide for 16 man-mont,Xs of collaborative
consultant assistance in cotton research and extension disciplines not
described above, and as needed. For example, it is expected that special
problems in cotton plant pathology, plant physiology, entomology, Breeder-
Foundation seed production, etc. would occur and that ICAR would arrange
for the needed expertise.



ANNEX 4
Appendix C
Page 3
B. Advanced Degree Fellowships
3.        ICAR, with the assistance of the participating universities would
select up to 12 graduate agricultural scientists on the basis of needs of
the respective institutions and the scholarship ability of the trainee for
advanced degree training, in disciplines related to cotton production and
processing, at internationally recognized institutions. Recipients of these
fellowships would agree to return to the consigning institutions for a
minimum of five years employment. ICAR would develop collaborative ar-
rangements, acceptable to IDA, with the recipients and internationally
recognized institutions for this activity.
C. Travel - Study Tours
4.        ICDC, with the assistance of ICAR, GOH, GOM and GOP Directors of
Agriculture and the participating agricultural universities, would select
up to 15 cotton research and CDS officers and others closely associated
with the project for travel and study tours. ICDC would prepare a plan
for such tours for IDA review and acceptance. It would include the quali-
fications of the recipient and the place, purpose and duration of the
proposed tour.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Cotton Ginning and Pressing Industry
A. Present Situation
1.        There are about 3,000 ginneries in India processing about 6 million
bales of lint each year. GOI projects a production of 8.2 million bales at
the completion of the 5th Plan in 1978-79. Over 75% of the gins are the
single and double roller type and of a design invented 50 to 100 years ago.
Saw type gins are used mostly for irrigated cotton in northern India. Saw
gins process the same amount of kapas per hour as roller gins with about
one-fourth less power and one-third labor requirement (Annex 1).
2.        Surprisingly, the old roller gin stands are able to process a
large number of bales during the ginning season due to the manner of handling
and marketing kapas and the storage of loose kapas on the gin yard. The
farmer brings his kapas to a local market yard where it is placed in a
heap and sold by auction and weighed. When the sale is completed and
the farmer agrees on the price, the kapas is transported to a gin yard
and unloaded onto a pile for the account of the buyer that made the pur-
chase. Each buyer usually keeps separate piles for each variety and
grade. The gin stand owner processes the kapas as instructed and on a
hire basis.
3.        Roller gin.  A roller gin consists of a grooved leather roller
lm long and 0.2m diameter that presses against a fixed knife, and is rotated.
A moving knife oscillates, because of an eccentric shaft, close to the leather
roller. When kapas is fed into the machine, fibers adhere to the rough
surface of the roller and are carried in between the fixed knife and the
roller. The moving knife strikes the seeds, the fibers which are grasped
by the roller break away. As this process continues the seed and fiber
are separated; the clean seed drops out through grids and the fiber rotates
around the roller and drops to the floor. A double roller gin has two
rather than one set of rollers and knives mounted on the same frame. The
single roller type gins were imported 50 to 100 years ago.
4.        Ginning factories operate only during the 4 to 5 months when
kapas is marketed, depending on location and variety. Studies of the
existing industry made in 1956-58 and again in 1972-74 show that, even
though old and out-dated, the roller gins remove the fibers without major



ANNEX 5
Page 2
damage to the lint. Precleaners would reduce the amount of admixture
contained in the lint bales but buyers were willing to pay a premium of
less than Rs 100 per bale for pre-cleaned cotton because they must preclean
it again at the mill until the time when most roller gins in India operate
with pre-cleaners.
5.        Within the framework of supply, demand and government policies,
the price paid to the farmer for kapas or to the ginner for lint depends on
the cotton variety, staple length, color and trash. The farmer chooses
his variety which in turn determines the genetically controlled staple
length and fiber characteristics. The methods used to pick the kapas and
the methods and equipment used to gin it determine the trash and nep
content. The project would provide training for cotton pickers in an
effort to improve the quality of the kapas and reduce its trash content.
6.        Saw Gin.  In the saw gin, the lint is separated from the seed
by rotating a number of equally spaced steel plates or saws about 30cm
diameter and 0.9mm thick with 264 angled teeth on the outer rim, into an
enclosed area (the roll box) which contains the kapas. Each saw passes
between two stationary steel ribs spaced so that the saw and lint attached
to the teeth pass through, but the seed cannot. After the lint is removed,
the seed drops out of the roll box into a seed conveyor. A blast of high
pressure air "doffs" or blows the lint into a lint flue and pneumatically
carries it to a condensor and the pressing unit.
7.        Kapas processed on a saw gin equipped with a pre-cleaner and
pneumatic handling removes about 3% more trash than a roller gin stand
processing the same cotton. Lint ginned on a saw gin normally commands a
premium of Rs 30 to Rs 50 per bale above that processed on a roller gin.
However, if the saw gins are not adjusted and operated carefully the lint
contains more nep and the premium fails to be offered. The spinning mill
operator must purchase special machines and operate with appropriate adjust-
ments when processing high nep lint. Also saw gins perform best on certain
varieties of cotton; in India saw gins are best used with the irrigated
cottons of Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan. For other regions, roller gins
produce the best lint.
8.        On a saw gin stand, the sharpness and "set" of the teeth and the
diameter of the saw are very critical for processing with a minimum of nep;
Replacement saws must be imported; dlue to the shortage of foreign exchange
they have not been available. The usual practice is to sharpen the saws
by hand filing. The original diameter will be slightly reduced with friction
and sharpening. Hand filing also chtanges the iangle of "set" thus changing
the relationship between the gin stand roll box, saw teeth and ginning point.
This reduces the machine's capacity and quality of lint. The mission observed
saws of less than 29cm diameter. Wh,en these are used, the lint is improperly
blown off the teeth, some of it passes through the seed rolls again causing
an increase in broken fibers. ReplaLcement saws and precession saw sharpeners
are needed to improve the existing saw gins.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
9.        Lint Presses.  After the lint is removed from the seed by either
type gin, it must be compressed by a baling process for transport to the
textile mill. All Indian bales are compressed to "high density" Only 732
presses are used to bale the lint produced by the 3,000 gins. Most of the
ginneries do not have presses and transport their lint cotton to a stand
with a press. Because of this system the press unit at all gin stands is
operated independently from the flow of lint. The lint from the roller or
saw gin drops on the floor and is pushed or carried to the sacking stand to
be tramped in jute bags for transport to the bale press. Dirt and trash from
the floor and loose jute strings from the bags get mixed with the lint. A
pneumatic lint handling system would gather the lint from each gin stand and
transport it to the press. However, such a system would eliminate the need
for 20 to 30 workers and may not be financially viable unless operated with
large size gins equipped with automatic bale presses.
10.       The press consists of two separate steel units and the bale is
pressed in two stages. The first stage unit is equipped with a single
30cm diameter hydraulic ram and a completely enclosed box with two heavy
steel doors that swing out to allow two men on each side of the press to
force the lint cotton into the box. When about 180 kg of lint has been
forced into the press box, the steel doors are closed and the hydraulic
ram compresses the cotton to 75cm in height. The doors are opened and with
the use of a steel clamp assembly the partially compressed bale is trans-
ferred from the first stage unit to the second stage unit which is very
similar in appearance but has no doors and is equipped with two 30cm diameter
short stroke rams. This second stage unit compresses the bale to a high
density and about 0.46m square. The hydraulic pressure is supplied by a
12 piston type pump using water and is driven by a steam engine or electric
motor. After the bale is compressed it is covered with burlap and tied with
steel bands. The bale is rolled out of the press where pieces of cloth are
hand sewn on each exposed end. The press mark, owner and lint identification
are stenciled onto the bale.
11.       This is a very inefficient system for baling lint.  It requires
much hand labor, involves high transport costs and delayed marketing. The
two stages of heavy steel press units used and the age of the presses
assure that repair parts are not readily available in case of failure or
breakdown during the operating season. Modern single stage double box
press units would greatly simplify the pressing stage and make it an
integral part of the ginnery instead of a separate unit. However, modern
presses to be financially viable would require increased volumes of lint
for pressing.
12.       The use of high density presses in India needs to be continued
due to the acute shortage of transporation facilities and the need to ship
more bales in a given space. The spinning mills are accustomed to handling
these bales and do not want to change. Modern single stage presses would
reduce labor requirements. However, most of the gins in the project area
are now equipped with old type presses. Only low volume ginneries do not



ANNEX 5
Page 4
have presses, and economies of scale would restrain installation of new
presses at these locations unless more volume is attained. When a ginnery
is going to install a press unit, the mission recommends that a modern
style double box universal density (imported) press be installed. When
new presses are installed a pneumatic system of handling the lint cotton
from the gin stand area through a lint flue and a condensor should also
be installed.
B. The Project Area
13.       The Hissar District project area has 110,000 ha in cotton and
produces about 200,000 bales of lint. About 40,000 tons of kapas containing
80,000 bales of lint also moves into the project area markets for ginning.
The 19 ginneries in the project area are equipped with 293 single and 30
double roller gin stands and 44 saw gin stands of 90 saws each. These
ginneries have a combined capacity of 1,850 bales per day and can process
the present volume of kapas marketed in the project area in about 135 days.
Two ginneries are under construction and four more are planned, and should
start operations with the 1975 and 1976 crops. The Fifth Plan provides for
two cooperative ginneries to be installed prior to the 1978-79 season.
14.       With the project it is assumed that the current production of
110,000 tons of kapas would increase to 160,000 tons. Gin stands would
need to be available to process about 300,000 bales by 1979-80 and 350,000
bales by 1984-85. Some of the obsolete gin stands should be replaced.
There should be sufficient capacity to complete the ginning operation in
about 120 days so that the hibernating bollworm pupae in the cotton seed
can be destroyed before planting the next cotton crop. Therefore, with
the project about 13 new gins, each capable of ginning 10,000 bales per
season, or 5 to 10 new gins with a larger throughput capacity would be needed.
Replacement saws and saw sharpeners are also needed.
15.       The Amraoti District project area has about 370,000 ha in cotton
and produces over 250,000 bales of lint each year (Annex 2, Table 4). There
are 25 ginneries in the district with 672 single roller and 115 double roller
gins. Two new ginneries, to be owled by the local marketing cooperatives
and financed by the National Cooperative Development Corporation are planned
for construction in 1975. With the gins operating at capacity the entire
production can be processed in 120 days. However, with the project, production
would increase to 300,000 bales or more by 1979-80. Also, some of the older
existing gins should be replaced. Therefore, 3 to 5 new gins would be needed.
16.       In both districts, the kapas may be stored 30 to 60 days in the
open gin yard before processing. During this time it is subjected to
intensive sunlight and one or two rain showers. The loss in value of the
lint from this treatment was estimated at Rs 20 per bale for 600 to 1,000
bales per year. The kapas can be protected by a roofed storage shed at
an estimated cost of Rs 200,000. However, in most cases, such an invest-
ment would not be financially viable.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
17.       Roller gins in the project area usually do not have pre-cleaners
that remove the dirt and trash from the kapas before ginning. For the
most trashy material, female laborers are hired to hand clean it by shaking
the kapas over a large screen. This method is ineffective and costly.
The installation of a pre-cleaner at each roller gin stand would cost about
Rs 144,000 each. Precleaned lint prices averaged 3.3% more than average
quality or Rs 100 to Rs 150 more per bale. This investment would be
viable if operated for 2,000 or more bales per year.
18.       The Faridkot district area produces 160,000 to 180,000 bales of
lint each year.  There are about 40 ginneries in the district, about 1/3
double roller gins and 2/3 saw gins. About 135 days are required to process
the crop. The Fifth Plan provides for two cooperative ginneries to be
installed with financing from the National Cooperative Development Corpora-
tion. With the project it is assumed that lint production would increase
by 35,000 bales in Muktsar and by over 100,000 bales in the district.
Existing roller gins need precleaners and replacement and additional gin
stands. Existing saw gins need replacement saws, saw sharpeners, additional
saw stands and universal presses. The project would help finance these
items.
C. Financing Gins and Gin Equipment
19.       The project would finance the following ginning equipment and
ginneries:



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Foreign
Local Exchange Total
--- US$ (000) -_
A.   Replacement gin saws and saw sharpeners             10       90   100
B.   Pre-cleaner equipment to clean the
kapas before ginning in a roller type
gin at Rs 144,000 each installed.
20 units at US$18,000 each                        130       230   360
C.  Additional capacity to existing small
roller gin factories, 5 bales per hour
capacity plus precleaner and universal
press at Rs 2,320,000 including building.
5 units at US$290,000 each                        602       848 1,450
D.  Roller gin factory buildings and 12 bales
per hour capacity indigenous or imported
high speed gin with pre-cleaner and uni-
versal press Rs 3,570,000 (US$446,250)
each if indigenous roller gin or
Rs 3,200,000 (US$400,000) each if imported.
2 units at US$400,000 each (Amraoti)              440       360   800
E.   Saw gin factory with 12 bales per hour
capacity gin, indigenous or imported high
speed with universal press at Rs 2,464,000
(US$308,000)
2 units at US$308,000 (Hissar)                    288       328   616
F.  Universal Density Lint Press with condensor
and lint flue to bale either roller ginned
or saw ginned cotton lint (imported only).
Rs 992,000 (US$124,000) each including
buildings.
6 units at US$124,000                             144       600   744
G.   Initial Operating Capital
For Items D and E                                 600       100   700
Total                US$        2,215    2,556 4,770
20.       In India there are two manufacturers of roller gins and one of
saw gins. However, the design of this equipment is of the early 1940 era.
Universal density lint presses, gin saws, saw sharpeners and pre-cleaners
are not manufactured in India. Outside India less than five manufacturers
produce and service modern design cotton gins and presses.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
D. Training
21.       To improve the quality of lint, training must be given to cotton
pickers, gin fitters and press operators. The Cotton Technological Research
Laboratory (CTRL) at Bombay has operated a training program for gin fitters
for several years. It is fully qualified to continue this type of training
and to add courses designed to train press operators and the district level
staff who would be responsible for the training of cotton pickers. Training
courses for fitters and press operators would be given at Bombay and in the
districts. The project would finance civil works, equipment, staff and
stipends (see Annex 9, Table 2).



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COTTONSEED PROCESSIINC
A. Current Situation in India
1.        Of the 2.3 million tons of cottonseed produced annually in India,
about 55% is fed directly to livestock, 40% is processed into cotton seed
and other products, and 5% is used for seed. Although feed for livestock
is necessary, the use of cottonseed before de-oiling as a feed represents a
large waste of human food and other resources, whereas formulated feed would
not only substitute but would be more digestible with higher nutritional
value for the livestock. A program to inform cultivators of the waste from
feeding unprocessed cottonseed ancl to provide a low cost substitute feed
would increase the amount of cottonseed to be processed.
2.        Cottonseed contains 20 to 21% hulls, 7 to 12% linters, 16 to 22%
oil and 46 to 57% oilcake; depending on the variety and agro-climatic con-
ditions. As procured from the ginneries, cottonseed also contains 5 to 8%
admixtures of husk and dirt. Indian oilseed processors extract the oil from
most oilseeds by either the "expeller" or the solvent extraction process.
With cottonseed most of the expeller type operators do not remove the lint
or hulls or cook the seed "meats" to deactivate the gossypol. The resulting
cottonseed cake contains all the linters and hulls and about half the origi-
nal oil. This type of cake can be de-oiled by the solvent extraction process.
However, the oil is of darker color and lower value; it is usually used for
soapstock. The linters and hulls are lost.
3.        In 1973, there were 42 licensed expeller equipped cottonseed oil
mills and 31 solvent extraction type cottonseed oilmills operating in India.
The expeller mills had an annual capacity of 680,000 tons of all types of
oilseeds. The solvent extraction mills had an annual capacity of 1.4
million tons of cottonseed and cake from all types of oilseeds processed by
the expeller mills. These mills process 800,000 to 900,000 tons of cotton-
seed each year. An expansion of solvent extraction capacity including
equipment for de-linting, hull removal and gossypol deactivation is needed
to process the more than 1.0 million tons of cottonseed fed directly to
livestock.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        The basic technology of cottonseed processing is as follows:
(a)  Storage of seeds for inventory control and to prevent
degradation by the elements;
(b)  Cleaning of seeds to prevent foreign materials from getting
into the system causing damage to the machinery;
(c)  Delinting.  Removal of small lint or linters from the seeds
yielding a valuable product to the bedding and chemical
industries. Also, these linters if left in the
process would absorb and retain the valuable oil. Linters
are not digestible, thus wasted, if fed to livestock;
(d)  Dehulling or Decorticating.  Removal of the tough outer hull
of the seeds, which if left in, would take processing volume
in equipment, absorb oil and cause dark color and degradation
of extracted cottonseed oil;
(e)  Adequate cooking of the cottonseed kernels or meats.  The
controlled heat and moisture deactivites the free gossypol
(a toxic substance) present in most cottonseed and prepares
the meats for maximum oil separation;
(f)  Additonal preparation of the cooked meats by forming into
uniform, thin 10-14 mm flakes. This procedure ruptures
the oil cells and increases the recovery of oil;
(g)  Oil and cake or meal separation.  This is where the type of
system generally gets it name, depending on which method is
used for oil separation. There are many different known
combinations, some of the most frequently used feasible
methods are:
(i) Expeller or screw press, where the crude oil is
separated from the cake in a mechanical screw type
extruder under extreme pressure. In India this
method removes 10 to 11 of the 18 to 21% oil content,
7 to 11% of the oil remains in the cake. The most
valuable product is sold at cake or meal prices rather
than oil prices. Most oilseeds can be processed
by this method with comparatively lower investment
and operating costs and lower recovery and overall
product values;



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(ii)  Expeller-solvent extraction (known as the pre-press
method) where the above method is used and followed
immediately by washing the oil cake with hexane (an
explosive, but controlable petroleum base solvent
fraction) to remove most of the remaining crude oil.
The solvent extractor system requires strict opera-
tional procedures with its complicated distillation,
oil reclaiming and de-solventizing equipment. Most
oilseeds can be processed with this system by making
small adjustments in operating conditions and equipment;
(iii) Direct solvent extraction, a larger more complex
version of the above described solvent extraction process
which processes the delinted, decorticated and cooked
cottonseed meats and other oilseeds without the use of
the expeller. This process recovers the highest per-
centage of edible oil and other by-products. In
general it is more capital intensive and requires a
larger size plant and volume of throughput to achieve
financial viability..
5.        The byproducts of the above extraction processes include linters,
hulls, crude cottonseed oil and expeller oilcake if the expeller process is
used, or extractor cottonseed meal if the solvent process is used. The
estimated recovery of each by-product in Indian cottonseed crusher factories
is as follows:
Traditional    Modern
Traditional    ExpelLer-       Solvent
Expeller       Extraction      Extraction
Process        Process         Process
_____--_- percent ---------------
Linters                                                     7
Hulls                                                      21
Crude oil
1st grade              8                 E            16
2nd grade                                4
Soapstock               2                5c            2
Cottonseed cake
With lint and hulls   87                 81
Fiber free                                            51
Processing loss (oil)       10                 3            2
6.        The linters obtained from the solvent extraction process are
marketed to manufacturers of bedding textiles or chemicals. The hulls
obtained from this process are blencded into the fiber free cottonseed
meal if it is processed into high protein livestock feed. The first grade
crude oil obtained from any process is usually processed into edible



ANNEX 6
Page 4
cooking oil. The second grade oil may be processed into paints or soap.
The traditional cottonseed cakes are usually exported for further processing
into paints, soap and livestock feed, etc.
7.        Fully processed edible cooking oil, vanaspati and vanaspati type
products, require the following procedures:
(a) Additional neutralization of the crude oil with caustic soda
and water washing. This process produces maximum yields of
once refined, top quality edible oil and the by-product of
soapstock, used for soap making or fatty acid distillation;
(b) Bleaching with natural or activiated bleaching earth and/or
carbon for reduction of color pigments and another clean-up
for the removal of the soaps from the previous procedure.
The modern system uses the continuous vacuum bleaching method;
(c) Hydrogenation by which the liquid oil is converted into a
semi-solid product such as vanaspati, by adding nickel catalyst
to the oil and chemically reacting hydrogen gas under controlled
conditions to desired levels for product used. In India a
batch system is usually used; few processors use a continuous
flow system.
(d) Formulation by which various processed fractions of different
oils are blended to produce the desired finished product charac-
teristics. Blending can be performed before hydrogenation with
certain products and after deodorization with other products,
but normally is done before deodorization;
(e) Deodorization is basically the last purifying process in edible
oil processing. The product or oil is heated to over 200C
under perfect vacuum to avoid oxidation and rancidity. Steam
is bubbled through the heated oil for the time required to
remove or adequately reduce all of the undesirable fractions
and odors to produce a pure, sanitary, edible oil product.
The product is cooled, filtered and stored for packaging de-
pending upon the type of products and market demand. The most
modern systems deodorize continuously in stainless steel retorts
to conserve on energy and to prevent contamination with other
metals;
(f) The processed oil should be packaged within two or three days
to avoid degradation and/or adulteration;
(g) Packaged products should be stored at temperatures below 27'C.
Some products need to be refrigerated (15C) to protect their
desired characteristics.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
B. Haryana and the Hissar Project Area
8.        Haryana produced an estimated 1:35,000 tons of cottonseed in 1972-
73 with most of this in Hissar district. An estimated 65,000 tons of this
was produced in the project area. Also, about 40,000 tons of cottonseed
produced in Punjab and Rajasthan were marketed and ginned in the project
area. Six traditional expeller crushing plants operate in the project area.
Two expeller crushing plants are under construction and will be in operation
by 1975. By processing 250 days per year these oilmills could crush about
35,000 tons. However, due to power shortage and adverse government vanaspati
price policies only about 20,000 tons were processed in 1972-73 and 1973-74.
Most of the cottonseed was fed to livestock.
9.        None of the existing plants delint, dehull or adequately cook the
cottonseed to deactivate the gossypol. They are not equipped to get maxi-
mum products or benefits from either the present or the anticipated in-
creased supply of cottonseed. There is no facility or plant in the project
area to refine crude cottonseed oil into edible oils and vanaspati. The
present plants using expellers (mechanical screw type pressure extruders,
referred to as presses) crush whole cottonseed and recover about 10% crude
cottonseed oil and 89% cake which contains most of the free gossypol, all
of the linters and hulls and 8 to 10% oil. This method yields lower qua'ity,
off color crude oil which is washed by batches with lye or caustic soda and
then flushed with water and filtered. This washed oil is then transported
by lorry or railroad car when available (often the railcar last contained
diesel fuel oil, before being hand washed) to a vanaspati plant, usually
in New Delhi. In batch processing and hanciling the oil (to and from transport
units in several plants) as is currently done, there is an oil loss of 2 to
4% above that normally experienced in an efficient plant containing continuous
flow refining, finished oil and vanaspati processing facilities on the same
site under one management and control. Such a plant can more easily control
and maintain sanitation and fresh quality of products.
10.       All cottonseed ginned Erom any kapas marketed in the project area
would be processed within the project. Production of cottonseed is expected
to increase to about 100,000 tons, marketings from outside the project area
would add about 50,000 tons. The project would provide for the modernization
of all existing cottonseed oil processing plants and for additional capacity
to process about 100,000 tons of seed each year. Details are given in
Section D of this Annex.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
C. Maharashtra and Amraoti District Project Area
11.       About 420,000 tons of cottonseed was produced in Maharashtra in
1972-73, about 22% of India's entire cottonseed crop. Existing expeller
type oilmills have an annual 250 day capacity of 740,000 tons and solvent
extraction plants have a rated capacity of 230,000 tons of all types of
oilseeds. Oilmill operators procure cottonseed and oilseed cake from
Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Punjab. Many mills operate
below capacity. About 45% of the cottonseed is fed directly to livestock.
12.       In the Amraoti District project area, about 81,000 tons of cotton-
seed is produced annually. This would increase to over 100,000 tons with the
project. Also, kapas from outside the project area that is marketed and
ginned within it contains 10,000 to 15,000 tons of cottonseed. The 49
expeller type mills in the project area crushed over 150,000 tons of cottonseed
in 1972-73, more than half of which was procured outside it. Due to constraints
of the GOM monopoly kapas procurement program, the crush was about 75,000 tons
in 1973-74. Only about one-third of the plants have cottonseed cleaning,
delinting and dehulling equipment. All of the plants use expeller presses,
most have batch washing and filters for oil. A few plants have modern
continuous neutralizing and drying processes for washing (once refined) oil.
All of the plants need major improvements in sanitation and maintenance,
and equipment for delinting, dehulling and preparing the cottonseed meats.
Two or three of the plants have the potential of adding solvent extraction
and/or vanaspati processing equipment, given more stable procurement and
marketing conditions.
13.       With the project's compulsory use of Certified seed and the pro-
cessing of all commercial cottonseed marketed in the area, there would be
ample need and demand for rehabilitating and modernizing existing plants.
The project would provide financing for this purpose. Details are given
in Section D of this annex.
D. The Project's Cottonseed Processing Component
14.       The present method of processing cottonseed in the project areas
loses the value of all the linters and hulls and about 10% of the recoverable
oil. In addition, the oil is of low quality and the cake, containing all
linters and hulls, and having a high gossypol content. It finds low valued
unpredictable markets, often no market. This situation, along with the
direct feeding of cottonseed to livestock, represents a waste of valuable
cottonseed resources. The facilities reviewed and proposed for this project
(Table 1) provide, either entirely or by subsequent processing, the plants
for a vertically integrated system to process cottonseed into the valuable
products of washed oil: fully processed and packaged cooking oil and
vanaspati type products; delinted, dehulled cake (less than 1.0% oil and



ANNEX 6
Page 7
less than 0.04% gossypol); baled linters; mixed animal feeds; hulls; and
soapstock. All of the products from these vertically integrated systems
have ready high value markets within India and/or for export. The volume
of processed edible oils produced by these types of facilities would reduce
India's need for imported cooking oils. The plants would be compatible for
processing cottonseed protein for human food products, when an operational
method currently under research is established and proved to be successful.
The plants would be expandable into soap products and other related and
supporting by-products. The small plants would be designed for expansion
by phases as increased processing is required. Existing plants could be
rehabilitated by adding the appropriate equipment. In the vertically
integrated concept the washed oil and delinted, dehulled, low gossypol cake
from a modern expeller plant would be transferred to a solvent extraction
plant for further processing into de-oiled meal for feed and export, and
refined oil for vanaspati or paint.
15.       Estimated costs for one traditional expeller plant and five model
modern cottonseed processing plants are given in Table 1 and for a vanaspati
processing plant in Table 2.
16.       Cottonseed oil pressure expeller units are available in India with
capacities of 2 to 10 tons throughput per day. Units of 1 to 20 or more
are installed depending on the overall planned plant capacity. The mission's
analysis of the economics of scale indicated that financially viable plant
capacities ranged between 50 tons and 200 tons daily throughput when
continuously operated 24 hours per day for 250 days per year. Smaller plants
would fail to cover fixed investment costs and operating overhead. Larger
plants would have difficulty procuring sufficient volume of cottonseed from
the local ginners. The models analysed herein range from 50 tons to 200
tons throughput per day for 250 days operation per year.
17.       The project would finance 4 modern expeller plants (Model B in
Table 1) and one combination expeller-extractor cottonseed processing
plant (Model F, Table 1) and one vanaspati plant (Table 2) in the Sirsa
project area and one combination expeller-extraction plant (Model F, Table 1)
in the Amraoti project area. Cottonseed oil processing facilities would not
be financed in Faridkot district.



INDIA
INTEaRATED COTTON DEVEWPNENI PROJECT
a/
Estimated Cost - Model Cottonseed Oil Processing PlanCa
plant_Model                            A                      B                    C                    D                    E                      F
Type                       Traditional Expeller    Mpdern Expeller    Comb. Exp.-Solvent   Comb. Exp.-Solvent   Comb. Exp.-Solvent   Comb. Exp.-Solvent
Capacity - Tons per yr.         12,500                12,500                12,500                 25,000               50,000               25,000 Seed
12,500 Cake
FE       Total       FE       Total       FE       Total       FE         Total        FE        Total      FE       Total
--------------------------------------------------------- US$ (000)-
1.  Land - 4 ha                                     30                    30                   30                     30                     30                  30
Subtotal                                   30                    30                   30                     30                     30                  30
2. Civil Works
Cottonseed storage            10           45        10          45      10           45       20            77       h4o          154     30          117
Process bldg.                  5           30         5          35       5           40       10            66       20           112     20           92
Other bldgs.                               25                    34       5           36       10            65       15            91     15           79
Electric hook-up               5           15         5          20       5           25       10            4o       20            75     20           65
Utilities - seam, water,
fire protection              5            10        10          20      15           32       ?5            45                     85     35           65
Railway spur                                                                                                          20            80     20           80
Subtotal                     25           125        30         154      35          178       75           293      160           597    140          498
3. Equipment
Seed cleaner                                                     12                   12                     24                     45                  24
Delinters                                            60          81      60           81      120           162      120           324    120          162
Saw sharpner - cleaners                                          15                   15                     30                     60                  30
Linters, bale press                                                                                         125                    125                 125
Dehullers                                            35          49      35           49       70           100      150           198      70         100
Meats cooker and flaker                               -          22                   22                     30                     43                  30
Expellers                     15           30        15          30      10           20       20            35       25            50     20           35
Solvent extraction System                                               350          450      450           564      600           714    600          714
Oil washer                    15           25        15          25      15           25       20            35       25            50     25           50
Meal handling - bagging        5           15          5         15       5           15       10            25       20            45      20          45
Feed grinder - iiixer-bagger                                                                                 10                     35                  35
Laboratory equipment                                                                   5                      7                     10                  10
Scales                                      5                     5                    5                      5                      5                   5
Motor vehicles                              5                     5                    5                     33                     66                  66
Spares                                      6        10          17      25           41       50            70       75           100    6u            85
Parking                                     5                     5                   15                     25                     50                  35
Installation                               25                    70                  100                    200                    250                 225         x
Subtotal                      35          116       140         356     500          560      740         1,480    1,015         2,170    920        1,776
Grand Total                        60          271       170         54o     535        1,068      815         1,803    1,175         2,797  1,060        2,305
/ Models C, D, E and F are designed as two-phase plants; the expeller would remove about half the oil,
the cake would then be solvent extracted. This system is more efficient under Indian conditions.
With minor changes in equipment and procedures these models could extract oil from other types of oilseeds.



ANNEX 6
Table 2
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Modern Vanaspati Processing Facility-
Item                          Local  FE   Total   Local   FE    Total
-_--_ Rs '000D ---   ---- U$  M --
Land                           240           240    30             30
Civil Works
Processing buildings        320      32    352    40        4    44
Office - housing              72      8            9        1    10
Electricals                  120     40    160    15        5    20
Utilities: water, steam,
fire protection, etc.       520    120    640    65       15    80
Sub-Total             1,0322   200  1,232   129        25   154
Equipment
Neutralizer                  640    240  -880    80        30   110
Bleacher                     360     80    440    45       10    55
Hydrogenator              2,000    480  2,480   250        60   310
Deodorizer                 1,200    520  1,720   150       65   215
Packager                     120     40    160    15        5    20
Formulator tanks             56$0    64    624    70        8    78
Spares                      320      56    376    40        7    47
Packing and Freight           96     24    120    12        3    15
Installation              1,080          1,080   135            135
Sub-Total             6,376  1,504  7,880   797      188   985
Grand Total           7,648  1,704  9,352   956       213 1,169
a/  This facility will process any edible oil or fat into cooking oils,
spreads for bread, etc.
July 16, 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Arrangements
A. Seasonal Credit Fund
Background
1.        Currently cooperatives supply about 30 to 32% of the demand from
cotton growers in the project areas for seasonal production credit, and
commercial banks about 3 to 5%. The balance comes from non-institutional
sources, with cotton marketers and moneylenders providing about 15 to 20%,
and the rest from private sources and family savings. Funds borrowed are
usually expended for family consumption needs, hired labor, seeds and
water charges, and also (when used) for fertilizer and plant protection.
The Cooperative Credit System
2.        The seasonal credit system in Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab
have a 3-tier structure, with the State Cooperative Bank at the top, District
Central Cooperative Banks at district level with branch offices in market
places, and Primary Cooperative Societies at village level. The State
Cooperative Banks in each State grant short and medium term loans (up to 5
years) to agricultural and other District Central Cooperatives. They are ade-
quately managed and have sufficient funds, derived from the state governments,
member cooperatives share capital contributions, deposits and RBI refinance.
They have no serious liquidity or overdues problems.
3.        The District Central Bank in Sirsa has 11 branches (6 in the
project area). At June 30, 1974 overdues were 30% of demand (32% a year
earlier). Management is relatively poor, and would require strengthening
for the project. At the peak demand period it withdraws the whole of its
refinance allocation from RBI. The District Central Bank in Amraoti has
30 branches and sufficient funds to meet all reasonable credit requirements.
Over the last 5 years it used an average of 64% of its own resources for
loans and advances, and 80 to 90% of its RBI limit. At June 30, 1974
overdues were 23% of demand (25% a year earlier). Its management is
satisfactory. The District Central Bank in Faridkot has 9 branches, 1 in
Muktsar Block. About Rs 35 million was on loan June 30, 1975. Overdues were
38% of demand including interest.
4.        The primary cooperative societies provide seasonal loans to cotton
growers for production inputs and spray equipment, but not for spray services.
They use their own resources and funds borrowed from the District Central
Banks. There are about 400 in Sirsa and over 700 in Amraoti. Many are too



ANNEX 7
Page 2
small to be viable, being frequently more of a borrower's club than a lend-
ing institution, and with restricted membership. Most do not have a full
time secretary, but where they do, the secretaries' training and qualifica-
tions are frequently inadequate. In Haryana a training program to improve
their capabilities is under way.
5.        Other problems of the primary societies include the arrears posi-
tion, which is generally poor: over 35% of demand in Sirsa, 38% in Faridkot
and 25% in Amraoti. Provisions for bad and doubtful debts are also inadequate.
There is no linkage between credit and extension; extension officers are not
involved in loan applications nor in supervision of loan utilization. Under
GOM's cotton monopoly procurement scheme, growers receive only 60 to 70%
of the value of their crop on handing it over, and have to wait up to one
year for the balance.
6.        There are other constraints over seasonal credit in the project
areas, as follows:
(a) The maximum loan for one borrower in Haryana and Punjab
is Rs 4,000. This would suffice to finance 5 to 6 ha
of all crop production. Some holdings would need more
than Rs 4,000. In Maharashtra, the maximum is Rs 25,000
which is sufficient;
(b) In Haryana and Punjab, farmers must own share capital
equivalent to at least 10% of the value of the loan. This
is high, particularly for new borrowers, and the amount
required is often not raised from own sources, but borrowed
somewhere else. In Maharashtra, the share capital contri-
bution is only 5% and thus less of a constraint;
(c) In Haryana, where most of the cotton is grown under irri-
gation, the financing scales for cotton - less than Rs 600/
ha - is about half of the farmers requirements and would be
insufficient for the project.
Commercial Banks
7.        In Sirsa, 7 commercial banks operate through 17 branches in the
project area. Although the Punjab National Bank is the "Lead Bank", the
State Bank of India (SBI) seems to be leading in agricultural credit, but
its contribution is negligible compared to the cooperatives. The commercial
banks plan to expand their agricultural credit operations in the project area.
8.        In Amraoti, 10 commercial banks operate through 29 branches (11 of
State Bank of India). The Central Bank of India is the "Lead Bank" but has
done practically no short term agricultural lending and only a few medium
term loans up to now. Four other banks have not provided short term credit.
SBI provided about Rs 4 million in short-term agricultural loans in 1973/74,
about 7% of the aggregated volume of the primary societies.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
ProJect Seasonal Credit Needs
9.        The cash costs of producing cotton without the project were esti-
mated as Rs 1,305 per ha in Sirsa, Rs 1,640 in Muktsar and Rs 595 in Amraoti.
Cash costs include seed, fertilizer, water, plant protection, hired labor,
marketing charge and interest paid on seasonal production credit. Normally,
seasonal credit institutions do not lend for marketing charges and interest
payments. However, they do lend for land preparation (bullock maintenance
or tractor hire) and for family consumption (minimum food needs).
10.       The project would require all cotton growers to purchase Certified
cotton seed of the recommended variety and to apply plant protection chemi-
cals as needed to control insects and diseases. In addition, by using these
two inputs the benefits from using more fertilizer and other inputs would
be enhanced. With the intensification of the extension and research efforts
the use of seasonal crop production inputs would increase rapidly. Incre-
mental costs are estimated as follows: (Detailed cost data are given in
Annex 12, Tables 1, 2 and 3)
Sirsa           Muktsar         Amraoti        Total
Increment       Increment       Increment    Incremental
Per    110,000   Per    23,000   Per  50,000        Cost
Year      ha        ha      ha       ha     ha      ha       Inputs
Rs       RsM     Rs       RsM     Rs     RsM      Rs Million
Before
Project    1,350             1,640            595
1         345     38        210     5     145       7         50
2         500     55        395     9     240      12         76
3         660     73        630    14     355      18        105
4         735     81        840    19     445      22        122
5         785     86      1,000    23     575      29        138
6         815     90      1,110    26     645      32        148
7         820     90      1,220    28     695      35        153
8         855     94      1,370    32     720      36        162
9         875     96      1,670    38     770      38        172
10         875     96      1,670    38     795      40        174
11-20 (Av)    875     96      1,670    38     855      43        177
Seasonal Credit Fund
11.       From the above table, at the end of the fifth year the total
incremental requirements for seasonal inputs would reach Rs 138 million. In
calculating the size of SCF, institutional share of credit for the incre-
mental inputs has been estimated to increase from its present 35% to about
67% at the end of the fifth year. Over the five years SCF would thus build
up as follows (including contingencies):
End of year          1     2     3     4      5
SCF (Rs million)    20    38    63    79   92



ANNEX 7
Page 4
12.       Detailed operation of SCF is given in paras 5.24 and 5.25 of the
main report.
13.       The estimated 5% of farmers ineligible for SCF loans, and unable
to obtain funds elsewhere would be required to use the compulsory seed and
plant protection services. They would be ineligible because of overdues on
debts to cooperatives or commercial banks. They would be provided with
unsecured "special loans" through CDS from funds provided by GOH, GOP and GOM,
at an interest rate above that: for loans through SCF. All such special loans
would be recovered through a surcharge on the existing land tax as specified
in the respective State Agricultural Pests, Diseases and Noxious Weeds Acts.
B. Cotton Gin Improvements
14.       Investments to be financed include replacement saws for gins,
saw sharpeners, pre-cleaners for existing roller gins, improvement and expan-
sion of existing roller and saw gins, new roller and saw gins and universal
density presses. Detailed specifications and estimated costs are given in
Annex 5. GOH and GOM have suggested that the proposed new roller and saw
gins should be set up and operated by cooperatives.
15.       Entrepreneurs in Sirsa, Hissar, Faridkot and Amraoti Districts
would apply for financing through a cooperative or commercial bank. Pros-
pective borrowers would need to have a minimum of 25% of the total capital
required, i.e., investment plus start-up ,capital.  The financial plan would
indicate a rational and feasible "critical path" for capital accumulation,
construction arrangements and expenditures. The cash flow would reflect
construction arrangements and an analysis of repayment capability. CDS
Marketing and Industry staff could assist in the preparation of applications
and the training of staff.
16.       Loan applications would be evaluated and monitored by the lending
institutions and ARDC. For loans with capital costs in excess of Rs 4.0
million (US$500,000) ARDC would forward the relevant materials to IDA for
review prior to ARDC approval. In Faridkot district the financing of new
saw and roller gins would be excluded. Terms and conditions for cotton
ginnery lending are given in Schedule A.
C. Cottonseed Processing Facilities
17.       Lending under this category would include the addition of delinters,
decorticators and "meats" preparation equipment to existing cottonseed pro-
cessing facilities and the financing of new modern expeller or solvent ex-
traction plants and vanaspati processing plants. GOH and GOM have suggested
that the proposed new plants should be set up and operated by cooperatives.
Terms and conditions of lending are given in Schedule A.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
18.       Prospective beneficiaries in Sirsa, Hissar and Amraoti districts
would apply to a cooperative or commercial bank for financing. CDS Marketing
and Industry officers could assist in the preparation of loan applications.
Prospective borrowers would need to have a minimum of 25% of the-capital
required including start-up capital. The "critical path" analysis would
detail plans for capital accumulation, construction schedule and flow of
investments expanditures. The operating plan would detail arrangements for
cottonseed procurement and storage so that the facility could operate
continuously (24 hours per day) for a minimum of 250 days per year. The cash
flow analysis would reflect earning and repayment capacity. Loan applications
would be evaluated by the lending institution and ARDC. Applications showing
a capital cost in excess of Rs 4.0 million (US$500,000) would be forwarded
to IDA for review prior to approval.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Coordination
Central Government Level
1.        Overall coordination and execution of the project would be the
responsibility of GOI Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA). The
Minister would establish a committee, the Integrated Cotton Development
Project Committee (ICDC) with overall responsibility for project execution.
The Chairman would be a senior officer in the MFA. Members would include
one or more senior officers from MFA, ICAR, GOH, GOM, GOP, ARDC, the National
Seeds Corporation, and the Ministry of Industry.
2.        ICDC would assist GOH, GOM and GOP execute the project.  Its
representatives would participate in the development of long range and
annual plans of work for project implementation. It would resolve diffi-
cultities and problems arising at state level that require reference to a
higher authority. It would arrange for an independent organization to
evaluate the overall impact of the project (see part B below). ICDC would
meet at least once per month during the early developing stages of the
project and at least quarterly during the disbursement period. Minutes
of its proceedings would be sent to the Project Management Committees and
IDA.
State Government Level
3.        GOH, GOM and GOP would each establish a Project Management Committee
(PMC) for which the State Department of Agriculture would be responsible.
The Secretary of Agriculture would be ex-officio chairman. Membership would
include the CDS Project Director and representatives from the Departments of
Cooperation, Irrigation and Industry and from the agricultural universities,
state seed corporations and ARDC.
4.        The PMC would manage the project in its state.  It would plan the
long range project area program, coordinate the work of all institutions
involved and deal with difficulties and problems arising at the state and
project area levels. It would refer to ICDC any issue that needed national
level assistance. Each PMC would meet monthly to initiate the project and
at least quarterly during disbursement. Minutes of its proceedings would
be sent to ICDC and IDA.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Project Area
5.        The CDS Project Director in each area would set up an ad hoc com-
mittee to assist in the coordination of all institutions and departments
involved at the field level. He would refer unresolved problems to the state
PMC. Participants would include the District Commissioner, and district
representatives from the Irrigation Department, Cooperation Department,
District and Block Panchayats, the Central Cooperative Bank, commercial
banks and key input and supply agencies. The committee would assist the
CDS staff plan and execute its annual plan of work.
Other Agencies
6.        The organization and management function of other agencies are
detailed as follows: CDS in Annexes 3 and 4; ICAR and the Agricultural
Universities in Annexes 3 and 4; and ARC in Annex 7.
B. Project Evaluation
7.        ICDC would arrange with an independent agency to evaluate the
project. Terms of reference for the evaluation would include inter alia
the following: (a) establishment of benchmarks for each area at the beginning
of the project; (b) measurement of change in such items as cotton yields
per ha, quality of lint, percentage of cottonseed processed, progress of
field sanitation and plant protection treatments; and (c) quantitative eva-
luations of project costs and benefits to cotton growers, ginners, cottonseed
processers and the general economy. Terms of reference and arrangements
for the evaluation study would be reviewed with IDA. Annual progress reports
and the final report would be used to determine whether the concepts and
methods of this project should be expanded to other areas.



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT P8DJECT
E3TIMATED COST COTTON DEVELOPMENT 58RVIC3-HARYANA-SIRSA AREA
pees                                 05$US                                                      Annual Expenditures - Rupees
Local        FE         Total        Local        FE           Total         1976-77         1977-78         1978-79         1979-80          1980-81
1000)
1. Staff
Project Director                   120                        120          15                         15
lGhs 24000                                                                                                    24              24               24             24               24
Cotton Dev. officers               228                        228          29                         29           36              48               48             48               48
4@Re 12000
Cotton Dev. Specialists            350                        350                                                   o7844
7aPs 12000                                                                                                   5               60               72             84               84
Agr. REt. Officers                 480                        hSo          6o                         6s           6o              80              100            120              120
1O@Rs 12000
Agricultural Inspectors                                                                             350X
750Rs 9000                  2,800                     2,300         350                                     350              50o              600            675              675
Plant Protection Officer                                      375          44 47
lORs 10074                                                                                                   40              6o               75            100              100
Field Assistants P.P.                                                                  206
150PRs 3000 (part time)    1,650                      1,650         206                                      150             250              350            450              450
SstabliBlshent Supt.                39                         39                                      C                                             80
1Rs 10000                                                                                                     5               6                              10               10
Accountants                        132                        132          16                         16
lOSRs 3600                                                                                                    1S              20               25             36               36
Stenographers, Clerks              203                        203          25                         25
15@Rs 3600                                                                                                    25              30               40             54               54
Drivers                                                         2
lO@Rs360                      132                        13          17                          1715                         20               25             36               36
Sub Total                        6,509                      6,509         814                        8i4          770           1,098            1,367          1,637            1,637
2. Equir ent
4Wheel dr-ive short
Wheel base Vehicles
lOdRs 30,000                  225           75          300           28          9             37            90              90              120
Motorcycles
lOOPs 60Go                     45           15           60           6           2              8            18              18               24
Motorbikes
754hs 3000                    175           5O          225           22          6             28            6o              6o              105
Audio Visual Aids                    30          20           50            4           2             6            15              15                20
Snrav  qiipm-et Vann
and Trailers *
5OQRs 40000                 1,500          500       2,000          187          63            250           400             6oo            1,000
Sack Pack Power Sprayers*
10000 Rs 1600                        1200          400         1600          150          50            200          400              6oo             600
High Ihell Tractor Sprayers1
2U   Re 100,000                        50          150          200            6          15             25                           200
UILV Sprayers
200 8Rs 240                             8           40            48           1           5              6            48
Insert Identification Kits
3000 Rs 10                             30                        30            4                                      30
Sub Total                              3263          1250         4513         408         156              4          1061             1583            1869
Grand Total                            9772         1250         11022        1222         156           1378          1831            2681             3236             1637          1637
1/  Assumes that farmers will use their own equipment to spray 25000 to 30000 ha of cotton and that 20000 ha will be sprayed by the CDS with the above listed ground operated equipment
and that 50000 to 60000 ha will be sprayed with aerial equipmest on a hire basis.  The cost of the starred items (*) will be recovered from facmers that u0e the CLt spray service.
See Annsx 2 for more detail.
June 27, 1975



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTION DEVELOPMENT PiEJ SMT
ESTD:ATED COST COTTON DEVELOPMENT SERVIC-3HMAHARASHTRA-AHIIAOTI
Rupees                              US$                                              Annual   penditures - Rees
Local        FE         Total      Local         FE         Total       1976-77       1977-78       1978-79        19e791980       1980-81
1. Staff
Pro:ect Director
l1Bs 24000                  120                      120          15                     19           24             24            24               24          24
Cotton Development Officer
4ORs 12000                  228                      22           8 28                                36            48            48               48           48
Agr. RKt. Officer
4aRs 12000                  240                        4          30                     30           30             40            50               60          60
Agricultural Inspector
403Rs 9000                1,470                     1.470       184                     l84         200             250          300              360          360
Plant Protection Officer
56Rs 10000                  150                      190         24                       4           20             30            40               50          50
Field Assistants
15005s 3000 (parttime)   1,650                      1,650       206                     20          150            250           350              450         450
Establ' shment Supt.
168s 10000                  39                         39         5                       -            5              6             8               10          10
Accountants
SIRs 3600                   73                         73         9                       9           10             12            15              18           18
Stenographers, Clerks
8dRs 3600                  105                        109        14                      14           15             20           20               27           27
Drivers
Soils 3600                  68                         68         8                                    8             10            14               18          18
Sub Total                      4,187                     4,187        523                     323         490            690           o69            1.06S       1,n60
2. Eruipment
4 wheel drive short wheel
base vehicles
56   30000                  112         38          150           14         5           19           90             6o
Motorcycles
5Rs 6000                    22          8           30            3         1            4           30
Motorbikes
40b8s 3000                   S0         30          120           11         4           15           60             6o
Audio-Visual aids                 30          20          50            4          2           6           25             25
Spray Equipment Vans and
trail ers
5008s 40000              1,500         5OO        2000           188        62          250       1,000          1,000
Back pack Sprayers
50oo  Hs 1600                 600          200         800          75         25           100         400             400
Hand Units
50sd  H8600                   240           6o         300          30          7            37         150             150
ULV Units
10063Rs240                      420                     24                      3             3          24
High WheOl Tractor
Sprayers
20 8s 10000                    50           15O        200           6         19            25                        200
Insect Identification Kits
3006 Rs100                     30                       30            44                                 30         _   _  _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _
Sub Total                     7,b78         1,026      3,70.         335        126           463       /S09           1,890                              I
Grand Tota'.                  6,86S         1,026      7,891         858        128           986      2, in7          2,S8S        869   l,065   1,060
1 / Assoes that the 50,00qha pilot study ares will be subdivided joto 25 randomly selected plots of 2,000 ha each.  Five plots wold receive no plant protection treatment, 5 plots
would receive no plant protection treatsent , 5 plots would be sprayed by the cotton grower with his own equipment. Fifteen plots would receive various cultural practice and
spray threatments using ground and aerial equipment.  See Annex 2 for mc-v detail.
June 27, 1(75



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST COTTON DEVELOPMENT SERVICE-MUKTSAR
Rupees                        mS$                                     Annual Expenditures-Rupees
Local      FE      Total     Local      FE     Total     1976-77     1977-78     1978-79      1979-80     1980-81
--------------------------------------_  -(  o000) -__- -        __-__ -_      -_-__-_-_-
1. Staff
Project Director
lQRs 24,000             120                120       15                15         24          24           24          24          24
Cotton Dev. officers
2@Rs 12,000             120                120       15                15         24          24           24          24          24
Agr. Inspectors
30@Rs 6,ooo             900                900      112               112        180         180          180         180         180
Plant Protection Officer
l'Rs 9,000               45                415        6                 6          9            9           9           9           9
Administration Officer
l@Rs 10,000              50                 50        6                 6         10           10          10          10          10
Accountants
2 @3600                  35                 35        4                 4           7           7           7           7            7
Stenographers
3 @3600                  55                 55        Y                 7                                  11          11          11
Drivers
2 Q4000                  40                 40        5                 5           8           8           8           8            8
Sub Total                  V365                J,365     170               170        273          273         273         273          273
2 -Wheel drive short
wheel base vehicles
2@Rs 35,000              54       16        70        7        2         9         35          35
Motorcycles
2@Rs 6,000                8        4        12        1        1        2          12
Motorbikes
15@Rs 3,000              30       15        45        4        2        6          30          15
Spray Van & Trailer
10ORs 45,000            346      104       450       43       13       56         180         180          90
High Wheel Tractor Sprayers
2aRs 100,000             50      150<      200        6       19       25                     200
Power Hand Sprayers
10 WRs  1600            120       40       160       15        5       20          80          80
ULV units
60@Rs 240                         14        14                 2        2                      114
Sub Total                    600      343       951       76       44      120         337         524          90
Grand Total                 3973      343      2,316     246       44      290         610         797         363         273          273



INEA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COTTuN RESEARCH - ICAR
Rupees                  US$ Euivalent                        Annual Expenditures - Rupees
Local   FE       Total      Local    FE       Total     1976-77    1977-78    1970-79    1979-W          1980-81
1.  SUPERVISION                                 200              200        25                25           40         40          40          40          40
2.  TRAINING (ICAR and CTGRL2
Training laboratory                      240       80      320        30       10      40          120         200
Training equipment                       320      160      480        40       20      60                      240         240
Added staff                              200               200        25                25          40          40          40          40         40
Stipends, travel                         400               400       50                5o                      100         100         100        100
Sub  total                             1,160      240    1,4oo       145       30     175          160         580         380         140        140
3.  COLLABOR8ATIV2 ARG1')4LMT
d6tton breeders - 2 for 60 man months          1,440     1,440                180     180          288         288         288        288         288
Entomologist - 2 for 60 man months               1,440     1,440                180     180          288         288         288         288        288
Agronomist - 1 for 24 man months                   576       576                 72       72         112         116         116         116        116
Short term assignments - 16 man months             384       384                 48       48          60          60          60        .102        102
International travel (above)                       560       560                 70       70         100         100         120         120        120
Domestic travel                            160               160        20                20          32          32          32         32          32
Domestic subsistance                       800               800       100               100         150         150         160         160        180
Sub total                                  960  4,400      5,360       120      550     670        1,030       1,034       1,064       1,I06       1,126
4. PROFESSIONAL TRAINING
12 Advanced degree fellowship                     1.1440    1,440                180      180                     360         360         360        360
15 Travel study tours                               600       600                 75       75                     150         150         150        150
Sub total                                         2,040      2,040   '           255      255                     510         510         510        510
GRAND TOTAL                               2,320  6,680     9,000       290      835   1,125         1,230      2,164       1,994       1,796       1,816
June 27, 1975



TNTrRATTin nCTT1N flaUS!nPMBT PRfl.TI.
COTTON RESFARCH AND BREEDEf-POUNIY.TION COTTON SEED PRODUCTION - (FSTINATED COSTS)
HISSAR AGRICULTURAL UNIVERlSITY
Un-it               Thxp e e                US$ Equivalent                              Annual lcpenditures -Rupees
Cost
NO  us$        Local                Total      Local    FE          Total        1976-77      1977-7.8      1978-79      1979-80      1980.-81
1 * CIVIL WORKS
Land developmaent                      300 ha   100          160       80         2140         20      10          30            120          120
Buildings
Laboratory & storage                                        1,200    800        2,000        150      100         250            600           800         1400
Line irrigation tank (Sirsa)                                  80       140        120          10       5          15             60           60
Sub total                                                   4-,-b60    920      2,360         180    115          295           980            980         1400
2.                                                                 I4~
Farm  tractors                           3        114         80       96        176           10      12          22            176
Tool bar set with attachments           3         50         320      280        600          140      35          75            200          1400
Implement carrier                       2          14         32       32         614           4       14          8             32            32
Tractor trailer                          2         3          140       8         148           5       1           6             214          214
Land planer                              1         5           8       32         140           1       14          5:            14r0
4ray pumps                             1          5          56       214        80            7       3          10             60           20
Hand tools                               1         5          80                  80           10                  10             20           60
Trucks - vehicles                       1-3        5         128      112        2140          16      114         30             72           1014          614
Repair - mainteniance equip.            1 set                 96      1014       200           12      13          25            100           100
Cotton seed process plant                                    1400    1400        800           50      50         100            300           300          200
Laboratory equip. (lump sum)                                 560      6140     1,200           70      80         150           1400          500           300
Spares                                                        96      1014       200           12      13          25100                       100
Sub total                                                  1,1396   1,832      3,7211         917  ~2             46           1,5e24       1,605614
GRAND TOTAL I                           ~~~~~3,336   2,752   6,088           1417    3144        761          2,5014       2,620           9614
Added staff-operation                                   1,200               1,200          150                 150            200           250          250         250         250
GRAND TOTAL II                                          14,536   2,752      7,288          567    3144         911          2,70o4        2,870        1,2114        250          250
1/ About Rs 1.5 million civ-il works, Rs 1.5 million equipment and Rs 1.0 millionataff exp,enditures would be for research and about Rs 3.3 million would be
for Breeder-Foundation seed produiction.
'0
June 27, 1975



INIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPiMET PHOJECT
COTTON R3SEARCH AND BREEDER-POUNDATION COTTON SEED PRODUCTION
AKOILA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY
Unit                    Ruipees         TuLRA  Ebulvalent                Annual Expenditures  -  Hupees
No      Cost    Local       FE         Total    Local    FE       Total    Year 1        2     3
US$
Civil Works                                            us$                                              (0OO)
Land Development                       400ha      250       560       240        800        70       30      100        250     300    250
Buildings
Cotton seed process plant storage                         1,200       400      1,600       150       50      200        600     600    400
Research Laboratories                                       880       320      1,200       110       40      150        600     600
Consultant quarters                                         240       160         400       30       20       50        300     100
Hostel for trainees                                          600      200         800       75       25     100         200      600
Equipment-service shelter                                   3000      0 0         400      37        13      50         100      300
Sub-total                                                 3,780    1,420        5,200     472       178     650       2,050    2,5PO  .650
Equipment
Farm tractors
45hp                                5          6       120       120        240        15      15        30        100     100      40
65hp                                2         10        40       120        160         5       15       20         80      80
lOOhp                                1         50        80       320        400        10      40        50                400
High wheel tractor spraer                1         12        16        80          96        2       10       12                  96
Tractor tool bar set with
attachments                          8         25       800       800       1600       100     100       200        600     600    400
Trucks-small                             3          5        96        24        120        12        3       15         40       40     40
large                             1         15        80        40        120        10       5        15                120
Hand tools                                                    32        8          40        4        1        5          5        5     10      10   10
Cotton seed process equip.                                1,200    1,200       2,400       150      150      300              1,600    800
Laboratory Equipment (lump sum)
Akola                                                   400       400         800       50       50      100        200      200    200    100  100
Achalsur                                                200       200         400       25       25       50        100     100    100       50   50
Training Equipment (lump sum)                               200       200         400       25       25       50        100      100    100      50   50
Spare parts                                                 160       240         400       20       30       50        100     100    100      50   50
Sub-total                                                 3,)42)    3,752      7,176       420      469      87       1,325   3,541  1,7 0    260  260
Grand Total I                                             7,204    5,172      12,376      900      647     1,547    3,375   6,041   2,440    260  260
Added Staff-Operations (5 years)                               1,600                1,600       200                200       250     300      350    350  350
1/
Grand Total II -                                               8,804    5,172      13,976      1,100    647      1,747    3,625   6,341   2,790    610  610
I/  About Rs 3.5 million of civil work, Rs 2.0 million of equipment and Rs 1.2 million of staff operations expenditures wuld be for cotton research
and Rs 7.3 million for Breeder-Foundation seed production.
June 27, 1975



INT=EATED COTION DEVELOPMENT PIDJECT
COTTON RBEARCH AND BREEDER-FDUNDA'r1ON COTDON SEED PROlIJCTION
RAHURI AGRIGJLTURAL UNIVERSITY
Unit              Rupees             U.S. $ Equivalent                Annual Expenditures  -   Rupees
No       Cost    Local       FE       Total    Local    FE           Total   Year 1        2       3         4        5
U.S.$
Civil Wcrks                                                   _ _       __                          (000)        __         __       __      _ _       _ 
Land development                   lOOha       200       96        64        160       12          8        20         80      80
Buildings
Cot1on seed process, storage                           600        200        800       75        25        100        400     400
Research laboratories                                  600        200        800       75        25        100         00     400
Equlipment services                                     140        60        200       17          8        25        100     :00
Sub-Total                                            1,436       -524       1,960     179        66       245         980     980
Equipalent
Farm tractor 45hp                    1          6        24        24         48        3          3         6                 48
*I "        65hp                     1         10       16        64          80        2         8        10                  80
Tractor tool bar set with
attacbments                    2         25      200        200        400       25        25         50                400
Trucks-small                         2          5       64         16         80        8          2        10         40                 40
Hand tools                                               32         8         40        4          1         5          8        8         8       8         8
Cotton seed processing equipment                        400       400        800       50         50       100        200      300       300
Laboratory equiPment
( LaSumsum)                                      400        400        800       50        50        100        100     300        300      50       50
Spares                                                   80       120        200       10        15         25                 50         50      50       50
Sub-Total                                                       1,232      2,-448     152        154       306        3480
1,2i6  '448   152   ---M       -306           346  ~1,186        698i    108       108
Grand Total I                                             7,652      1-,756     4,408      331       220        551       1,328  2,166        698    L08        108
Added Staff Operations                                      800                   800      100                  100         100    150        150     200       200
Grand Total II 1/                                        -3,4452    1,756       5,208      431       220        651       1,428   2,316       848     308       308
1/ About Rs 1.0 million of civil works, Rs 2.60illion of equipment and Rs 600,000 Of staff operations expenditures would be for cotton research
and Rs 1.0 million for Breeder-Foundation cotton seed production.
June 27, 1975
ezz



INDIA
INTEGRATED COMTON DVELOPENT PROJECT
COTTON RESEiRCH AND BR EDER-OUNflATIN SEED P        ONUCTIN
PARRIANI AGRICULTLJRAL UNIVERSITY
No          Unit                 Rbipees                       US$ Fquivalent            Annual Expenditures   -  Rupees
Cost       Local      FE        Total      Local      FE        tal       Year                                    5
US$
civil Iorks                                                         -       _                              (- 000)      _         -- __         __   __
Land development                    lOOha         100        40         40          80         5         5         10          40      40
Buildings
Cottm, seed-storage                                         600        200         800        75        25       100          200     300       300
Research laboratories                                       600        200         800        75        25       100          200     300      300
Equipment services                                           140        60         200        17         8        ?5         100      100
Sub- l1,38 500        1,0  .    172          63       235          540     740      600
Equipment
Fans tractor, 45hp                    1             6         24        24          48         3         3          6          48
Tool bar and attachments              1 set        15        56         64         120         7         8         15          60      60
Tiucks-small                          2             5        64         16          80         8         2         10          40                40
Hand tools                                                    32         8          40         4         1          5           8       8         8         8         8
Cotton seed process equipment                               400        400         800        50        50        100         200     300       300
Laboratory equipment
Lump sum                                                400        400         800        50        50        100         100     300       300        50        .50
Spares                                                       96        104         200        12        13         25                  50        50        50        50
Sub-Total                                                  1,072     l,bIn       2,000       134       127        261         456     718     69         108      1108
Grand Total I                                                   2,452     1,516       3,968       306       190       496          996    1,458   1,298        108       108
Added Staff and Operation                                         800                   800       100                 100          100      150     150        200       200
Grand Total II 1"                                               3,252    1,516        4,768       406       190       596        1,096    1,608   1,448        308       308
1/ About Rs 1 .0 million civil works, Rs E.' million equipment and Rs 600,000 of staff operations expenditures would be for cotton research
and Rs 700,000 for Breeder-Foundation seed production.
June 27, 1975



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOpMENT PROJECT
COTTON RESEAACH AND BREEDER - FOUNDATION SEED PRODUCTION
PUNJAB AGRICULTTJRAL UNIVERSITY - LUDHIANA
Rupees                  US $ Equivalent          Annual Expenditures   -   Rupees
Local    FE     Total       Local   FE      Total     Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4  Year
1. Civil Works
Land Development             40      24       64         5        3      8          64         -        -         -     -
Research Laboratory Bldgs. 480      320      800        60       40    100         300       300      200         -     -
Seed Processing - Storage
Building                   480     320      800        60       40    100         300       500       -          _     _
Sub-Total                 1,000     664   1,664        125       83    208         664       800      200
2. Equipment
Seed Processing             400     400      800        50      50    100          200       600       -          _     _
Laboratory (Lump Sun)       360     360      720        45       45     90         220       300      200         -     -
Sub-Total                   760     760   1,520         95       95    190         420       900      200         -     -
Grand Total I             1,760   1,424   3,184        220      178    398       1,084     1,700      400         -     -
Added Staff - Operations   800               800       100             100         100        150     150        200   200
Grand Total IIL/          2,560   1,424   3,984        320      178    498       1,184     1,850      550        200   200
1/   About Rs 2.5 million would be for cotton research and is 1.5 million for
Breeder/Foundation seed production.
July 25, 1975
,,



ANNEX 9
Table 10
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Cost
Rupees millions          U$ millions Equivalent
Local    FE    Total      Local      FE     Total
A. Government Agencies
1.  ICAR
Admin. and Training    1.60              1.60      0.17      0.03   0.20
Technical Assistance   o.80      6.40   7.20       0.13      0.77   0.90
Sub-Total               2.40     6.40   8.80      0.30       0.80   1.10
2.  Universities                                                 j
Hissar                  4.80     2.40   7.20      0.56       0.35   0.91
Akola                   8.80     5.22  14.02      1.08       0.66   1.74
Rahuri                  3.45      1.76   5.21      0.43      0.22   0.65
Parbhani                3.25      1.52   4.77     0.41       0.19   0.60
Punjab                  2.60     1.40   4.00      0.32       0.18   0.50
Sub-Total              22.90    12.30  35.20      2.80       1.60   4.40
3.  Cotton Development
Services
Sirsa                   9.60     1.60  11.20      1.24       0.16   1.40
A.mraoti                7.20     0.80   8.00      0.86       0.14   1.00
Punjab                  1.60     0.80   2.40      0.20       0.10   0.30
Sub-Total              18.40     3.20  21.60      2.30       0.40   2.70
4.  Contingencies
Physical                3.20     1.60   4.80      0.40       0.20   0.60
Price                   5.60     3.20   8.80       0.70      0.40   1.10
Sub-Total               8.80     4.80  13.60      1.10       0.60   1.70
Total A                52.00    27.20  79.20      6.50       3.40   9.90
B.  On-Lending
5.  Ginning                16.00    15.20  31.20       2.00      1.90   3.90
6.  Cottonseed Processing 41.60    22.40  64.00        5.20      2.80   8.0o
7.  SCF                    52.80    27.20  80.00      6.60       3.40  10.00
Sub-Total (5,6,7)    110.40    64.80 175.20    13.80         8.10  21.90
8.  Contingencies
Physical                4.80     5.60  10.40      0.60       0.70   1.30
Price                  13.60     9.60  23.20      1.70       1.20   2.90
Sub-Total              18.40    15.20  33.60      2.30       1.90   4.20
Total B               128.80    80.00 208.80    16.10       10.00  26.10
C.  Grand Total               180.80   107.20 288.00    22.60       13.40  36.00



ANNEX 10
Table 1
INDIk
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDUIE
Pre-
Item                      Project  1976-77   1977-78   1978-79   1979-80   1980-81
CDS
Staffing (No)             100       150         200       2146       246        100
Fariers Trained('000)      10        30          50         80        80         80
Area Cotton
Protected('000 ha)          5        60          80       125        130        140
Cotton Yield
Sirsa - kg/ha            900      1;200      1,300      ;1400      1500       1,600
Amraoti - kg/ha          320       380         440       500        560        620
Muktsar - kg/ha         1250      1,350       %45o      1600       1,800      2,000
Research
B F Seed (ha)
Haryana                   10        40          80       100        100        100
Maharashtra                0        10          40        80        150        200
Punjab                     1        40          BO       120        160        190
Cotton Gin Imp.
% Constructed              0        40          80        90         95        100
Cottonseed Processing
% Constructed              0         0          10        50         90        100
Overall Project Execution
% Completed                0        30          50         80        90        100
December 2, 1975



Implementation Schedule
Activity                     Acg(iesY                       1    2                    6    7    8    2    10   11   12
A. ODS
1. Transfer Agricultural   GOH, GOM and GOP                 _         _         _          _         _         -
ztension staff and
appoint and post ny
staff (one-half in
1976, two-thirds by
1977, 85% to 100%
by 1978-79)
2. Procure transport        GOH, GOM and GOP               _               -         -         -         -
sprayr equipment (60%
in 1976, 75% by 1977
and 100% by 1978).
3. Prepare five-year        CDB Project
program and annual      Directors with assistance
plan of work            of agricultural universities
ICAR and consultants
4. Train staff, farmers,    CDS Project
et al - (Examples)       Directors with assistance of
Field sanitation,        agricultural universities ICAR -                                         _
Cotton prod.prac.,       and consultants
Plant protection,
Marketing,
Seasonal credit
5. Organise field dei-      CDS Project Directors with          __3_                 _                   _
onstrations and op-      assistance of agr.universities
erational research       ICAR and consultants
0



Quarter                                       1    1 1
Activity                      ency(ies)                      Fi 2                    6                    10   ? 1   12
6. Arrange for seasonal   CDS, ARDC, local lending
credit needB
7. Arrange for distri-    CDS, Seed Corporation,
bution of production    Cooperatives, PPS
inputs
B. Cotton Research
8. Post Consultants       ICAR and agr. universities
9. Plan five-year research IGAR and agr. universities
prograa and annual      assisted by coasultants
plan of work            and CDS
10. Add research staff      Agricultural universities
(60% 1st year; 80%
2nd year; 100% 3rd year)
11. Procure equipment       Agricultural universities
(l0o% lot year; 45% 2nd
year and 15% 3rd year)
12. Construct building      Agricultural universities            __,____
13. Operational research
in CDS area
14. Assist CS training      Agricultural univeraities       ___
uIt 
CD oo
P V



'Quarter
Activity                     Agency(ios)                     1k 2i                                8    2    10   11   12
15. Produce Breeder and      Agricultural universities            _
Foundation seed
16. Arrange for
(a) Advanced degree       ICAR and universities                 _                                    _
fellowships
(b) Travel study tours    ICDC, ICAR and PICs                   _              _                     _
17. New cooperative gins and
oil mills
(a) Review proposals for  GOH, GOM, GOP and ARDC with IDA
new gins to be
financed by project
(b) Approve loans and     ARDC, lending agency
tender civil works    and beneficiaries
and equipment
(6) Construct civil works,Beneficiaries
install equipment
(d) Train management      GDS and CTRL                                                                               _
and operators
18. Improvements to exist-
ing facilities
(a) Inform owners of      CDS and CTRL
improv.opportunities
(b) Approve loans and     ARDC and lending agencies                                                 _
procedures
(c) Construct civil works Beneficiaries
and install equip.
(d) Train management and  CDS and CTRL                                                                               _
operators
a/ Responsible for initiating action, supervising and/or executing the work involved
b  Assumes full effectiveness by April 1, 1976                                                                       o&l.
September 10, 1975



Table 1
INTEGRATED COTTAC IEVILOP1W  PtOJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursmeont/
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                          Disbursements
Amount              Accumulative
.-            .US$ I~ion Eoquivalien
l4th  4th                                    0.1
1976-77
1ot                                     0.2
2nd                                     0.7
3rd                                     1.0
4th                                     2.0                    4.0
1977_78
15t                                     1.0
2nd                                     1.0
3rd                                     2.0
4th                                     1.0                   9.0
-1978-Z2
lot                                     1.0
2nd                                     1.0
3rd                                     1.0
4th                                     1. 13.5
1979-80
18t                                     1.0
2nd                                      *0
3rd                                     l
4th                                    05                   17.0
1980-81
1 at                                    0.5
2rnd                                    0.5
3rd                                      ~1  
4t,h. Ass"ne fil effectitonoss by       197618.0
.L   Assumes fufll effectiveness by Aipril 1, 1976



ANNEX 12
Page   1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefits
A. Cotton Growers (Extension & Research)
1.        The intensified adoption by growers of existing cotton production
technology and the new technology to be generated by the project research
component would increase cotton yields from the current 900 kg per ha to
1,600 kg in the fifth year and 2,000 kg in the twentieth year in the Sirsa
irrigated area, and from 320 kg per ha to 560 kg in the fifth year and 900
kg in the twentieth year in the Amraoti area and from 1,250 kg to 2,000 kg
in the fifth year and 2,500 kg in the twentienth year in Muktsar. Net cash
income at Sirsa would increase from Rs 945 per ha without project to Rs 1,990
in the fifth year and Rs 3,020 per ha in the twentieth year. In Amraoti,
net cash income would increase from Rs 301 per ha without project to Rs 566
in the fifth year and Rs 1,070 in the twentieth year. In Muktsar, net cash
income at Rs 1,485 per ha without the project would increase to Rs 2,360.
The compound growth rate for net cash income is 5.8% for Sirsa and 6.6% for
Amraoti. Details are given in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
2.        In each district the financial and economic rates of return ex-
ceed 100% i.e. infinity - because May to November cotton production input
costs result in November to January revenues in excess of costs each year.
Using a 15% discount rate the benefit-cost ratio would be 2.1. If the yield
increases were only half the projected rates and costs remained the same
in Sirsa and Muktsar, both rates of return would continue at infinity. However,
under this assumption in Amraoti, bothrates of return become negative and
cotton growers would reject all efforts for development. Increases of the
magnitudes given above would be due to the successful execution of the inten-
sified area-wide organized extension effort backed up by a strengthened cotton
research program and seasonal credit to assure the rapid introduction and
diffusion of existing and new production technology. The sensitivity of rates
of return to yield increases in the Amraoti rainfed area provides strong
justification for the extension and research input and the compulsory control
of variety and quality of seed planted and of cotton insects and diseases.
B. Cotton Ginnery Investments
3.        Replacement Gin Saws:  A set of gin saws costs about Rs 4,000
installed. New gin saws, when compared with existing worn-out saws,
would increase the net value of all lint ginned by Rs 20 or more per bale.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
A typical saw gin stand will gin miore than 1,000 bales per season. Returns
on this investment recover all costs in less than two months operation.
The financial and economic rates of return exceed 100%, i.e. are infinity.
4.        Precleaners for Existing Roller Gins:  Precleaners remove admix-
tures in the kapas before it is ginned. The procedure increases the value of
lint by about Rs 30 per bale at a cash operating cost of about Rs 22 per
bale. A typical precleaner investment would be expected to process about
about 2,200 bales year. Under these assumptions and with an installed cost
of Rs 144,000 per unit the rates of return and sensitivities would be as
follows:
Rate      Costs                Benefits
%    +15%       -15%        +15%   -15%
Financial             29    23         338          36     22
Economic              18    13          24          23     13
5.        New 12 Bale per Hour Gin:  This investment costed at Rs 3.2 million
includes precleaners, a pneumatic system for handling unbaled lint and a uni-
versal density press in addition to the gin stands. Assuming a throughput
of 10,000 bales per year (100 days at 100 bales per day), a ginning and baling
fee-of Rs 90 per bale and a cash operating cost of Rs 40 per bale, the rates
of return and sensitivities were calculated as follows:
Rate      Costs                Benefits
%    +15%      -15%         15%    -15%
-T      %        %           Z        %
Financial            15    11         21         20       10
Economic             16    12        21          20       11
6.        In the above calculations, the annual throughput was taken at
8 hours daily operating capacity for 100 days during the ginning and pres-
sing season. Gins usually operate 120 to 150 days with intermissions when
kapas or electricity is not available. When operated for 20 years at one
half the assumed capacities the rates of return would range between 60%
and 70% of those given above.
C. Cottonseed Processing Investments
7.        Modern Expeller Plant (Model B - Annex 6, Table 1):  This plant has
an investment cost of about Rs 4.3 million. When operated at full capacity
(12,500 tons per year) with a cottconseed cost of Rs 1,200 per ton, other



ANNEX 12
Page 3
cash costs of Rs 179 per ton and a product value of Rs 1,680 per ton, the
rates of return and sensitivities were calculated as follows:
Rate     Costs                Benefits
%     +15%       -15%       +15%    -15%
Financial            59      17         Inf.        96       9
Economic             51      19         85          80      13
If the inflow cost of cottonseed were Rs 1,400 per ton and all other costs
and benefits remained the same, the financial rate of return would be 19%.
If the product value was 15% higher, the rate of return would be 52%.
8.        Modern Expeller-Solvent Extraction Combination Plant (Model F,
Annex 6, Table 1): This plant with an investment cost of Rs 19.8 million
would process 25,000 tons of cottonseed and 12,500 tons of expeller cake in
250 days. With cash costs of Rs 1,200 per ton for cottonseed, Rs 1,120 per
ton for expeller cake and other costs of Rs 196 per ton and recovery values
of Rs 1,760 per ton cottonseed and Rs 1,464 per ton of expeller cake
processed the rates of return and sensitivities were calculated as follows:
Rate      Costs               Benefits
%    +15%     -15%         +15%   -15%
Financial
Full Capacity             34       8       56           53      2
Half Capacity             19       1       34           32     -4
Economic                       28       9       45           43       5
This investment is highly sensitive to the margin between cottonseed and
expeller cake inputs and their product values. It is only moderately
sensitive to throughput capacity.
9.        Modern Vanaspati Processing Plant (Annex 6, Table 2):  The invest-
ment cost for this plant is estimated at Rs 10.3 million with a washed oil
raw material cost of Rs 8,000 per ton, other cash operating costs of
Rs 1,089 per ton, and a product recovery value of Rs 9,600 per ton of oil
input the rates of return and sensitivities are as follows:



ANNEX 12
Page 4
Rate      Costs                 Benefits
%    +15%    -15%          +15%        -15%
Financial
Rs 1,600 per ton
margin               36   Neg.      96           89        Neg.
Rs 1,000 per ton
margin                6  Neg.       83           76        Neg.
Economic              42   Neg.      90           85        Neg.
This investment is highly sensitive to the margin between the input cost
of washed oil and the product value. The above calculations assumed 12,000
tons of washed oil throughput per year. At half this volume and Rs 1,600
per ton margin, the financial rate of return would be 20%.
D. Project Rates of Return
10.       In calculating the economic rates of return for the project,
investments in ginning and cottonseed processing equipment accounting prices
of 125% of the foreign exchange cost were used. This section summarizes the
economic rates of return for each component and for the entire project after
making further adjustments for interest, tax transfer payments. The results
are as follows (see Table 3):
Costs        Benefits
Investment                  Economic Rate         +15%    -15%      +15%    -15%
(a) Cotton Growers,
CDS, Research
B-F Production
and Seasonal
Credit           Infinity for all tests (over 100%)
(b) Cotton Ginneries            10                  5       15       15         5
(c) Cottonseed
Processing                  37                  5       64       60         4
(d) Total Project    Infinity for all tests (1.6 benefit-cost ratio).



ANNEX 12
Page 5
11.       The economic rate of return is sensitive to cotton yield increases
obtained by growers, ginning fees and cottonseed by-product and vanaspati
margins over raw material costs. Investments in the cottonseed processing
facilities are highly sensitive to costs and margins but not to throughput
volumes at the margin rates assumed. However, rates for ginning and baling
and wholesale-consumer prices for edible vegetable oil products, including
cottonseed oil, are usually regulated in India, sometimes at levels that
would yield a low or negative rate of return to the investment.



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGETS AND RATES OF RETJRI - SIRSA COTTON FARMER
Before          1                2                3               4                5                6                 7                8                 9-20
I.    Financial Rate of Return             At      Current       Prices
Kapas Kg. Per Ha.       900              ,2x0           1,300            1,400            1,500            1,600            1 , 703            1,800            ,900             2, uuu
1. Cash Inflow - Sale of
Kapas  at Rs 2, J00-2,.00                              35,200
per ton              3,250             J,0oO           3,250            3,500            3,750            4,03o            4,335              4,590           4,_
Incremental                           750           1,000            1,250            1,500            1,630            2,0d5              2,340           2,595             2,950
r>Rh Ouitflow
Seed                 40              40               40               8o              80               80               80                80               80                80
Fertilizer at
Rs4.O kg.             40             80               80              120             160              200              200               200              200               200
Water                100            100              100              100              100             100              100               100              100               120
Plant Protection    140             280              350              420             420              420              420               420              420               420
Hired Labor at
Rs7.5               900           1,350            1,125            1,125           1,150            1,150            1,175            1,175             1,200             1,200
Marketing Charges    50              60               65               70               75              o0              T5                 90             100               100
S. T. Interest        35             40               45               50              55               60               60                60               60                60
Total Outlay          1,305            1,65o           1,805           1,965             2,040           2,090            2,120             2,125            2,160             2,180
Incremental Outlay                      345              500              660             735              785              815               820              855               875
Net Balance                 945          1,350            1,445            1,535           1,710            i,990            2,215             2,465            2,635             3,020
Net Gain over "Aefo-'"                     405              500              590             765            1,045            1,270             1,520            1,740             2,075
Financi1l Hate of
Return - Infinity
II.   Economic Rate of Return (110,000 ha at 1980 Deflated Prices, Labor at 50,)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    -(Rupees Million)       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
3. Cas'X Inflow - Sale
of Kapas, 1 ha at
Rs 1800 ton         _,2           2,160            2,340           2,520            2,700            2,880            3,o60             3,240            3,420             3,000
110,000 ha (Rs
million)            178.2          237.6            257.4            277.2           297.0            316.8             336.6             356.4            376.2             396.o
4. Cash Outflow
Seed                 40              40               40               80              80               80               80                 80              80                80
Fertilizer            40             80               80              120              160             200              200                200             200               200
Plant Protection    140             280              350              420             420              420              420               420              420               420              3
Hired Labor (50%)   450             525              563              563             575              575              587                587              600               600            o l.
Outlay per ha            670            925                             1,133           1,235            1,275            1,267             1,237            1,300              1,300
110,000 ha (Rs million) 73.7           101.8            113.6            130.1           135.9            140.2            141.6             141.6            143.0             143.0
Econmic Rate of aeturn = Infinity
June 30, 1-975



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOJRtMT PROJECT
FARM BUDGET AND RATES OF RETURN-AMRACTI COTTON FARMZR
Before         Year I           Year 2        3           4           5          6            7           3           9          10          11-20
I. Financial Rate of Return
Kapas, kg per ha.                     320             380            440          500        560         620         680          710        710          770        800         goo
1.  Cash Inflow (1 ha)
SaMe of Kapas a, I    s p-   in         9 8%6         ;o69            232         1400        3568        9736        1,904       1,988       2,072       J56        24290         520
2.  Cash Outflow (1 ha)
Seed                                 40              40             40           80          80          8Z          80          80          80         80          Bo           BO
Fertilizer 5Rs. 4.00                 20              20             40           40          80          80          80         100         100        120         120          120
Plant Protection                                    140            210          280         280         350         420         420         420        420         420          420
Hired Labor 5Re. 5.00/day           500             500            500          500         550         600         600         625         650        675         700          750
Marketing Charge                     20              20              20           20         20          25          25          25           25         25          25           30
S.T. Interest                        15              20             25           30          30          35          35          40          40         45          45            50
Total Ou l                          595             740            815          950        1,U4U        170       1,240        1,290       1,3I5      1,365       i,YU        I 450
6nleaen a                                           145 20           0          355         445         575         645         695         720        770         795          8v 5
Net Balance                         301             324            397          450         528         566        664          698         757        791         850         1070
Net Gain over "Before"T                              23             96          149         227         265         363         397         456        490         549          769
Fimancial Rate of Return =       Infinity
II.   Economic Rate of Return(50,000  ha @ 180 Deflated Prices, Labor @ 50%)
3. Cash Inflow
Sale of Kapas per haa. rs2,000 ton  690                760             880        1,J00       1,120      1,240       1,360       1,420        1,480      1,540      1,600        1,800
50000 ha (2r m:rllun-)                                  38.0           44.0         50.0       56.o        62.0        63.o         71.0        74.0       77          80           90
L. Cash Outflow
Seed                                 40              40             40           80          80          80          80          80           80         80          80           80
Fertilizer                           20              20             40            90         80          80          80         100          100        120         120          120
Plant Protection                                    140            210          280         280         350         420         420          420        420         420          420
Hired Labor (50%)                   250             250            250          250         275         300         300         313         325        338         350           350
Outlay per ha                       31              950            590           0          715         O10         Oo0         913          925        958         970           70
50000 ha (1R- lillon-)               15,5            22.5            27.0         32.5       35.8        40.5        44.0         45.7        46.2       47.9        48.5         48.5
Net Balance                              16.5             15.5           17.0         17.5        20.2        21.5        24.0        25.3        27.8       29.1        31.5         41.5
EccnoTmic Rate of Return=            Infinity



INDIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGETS AND RATES OF RETURN - FARIDKOT COTTON FARMER
3efore          1           2           3           4          5           6           7           8           9-20
I. Financial Rate of Return
Kapas Kg. Per Ha.      250          1,350     1,40        1,600       1,800      2,000       ?,1         2J00        2,300        2500
1.  Cash Outflow - Sale
of Kapas Rs 2500-
2600 per ton          3125          3375      3625        4,ooo       4,500      5000        5,250       5,00        5,750        6,250
Incremental                      250        500         875        1375      3875         2W25        2,375       2,625        3W25
2.  Cash Outflow (Rs)
Seed                 40            40        60          80          80        80           80          80          80           80
Fertilizers         309           400       400         450         500       500          550         600         650          750
Water               100           100       100         100         100        100         100         100         100          100
Plant Protection   200            300       400         500         600       700          750         750         900          900
Hired Labor         900           900       950        ,000        ;050      3100         ;100        1,150        ,200        1,300
Marketing Chaiges   60             65        75          85          90       100          110         120         120          120
S. T. Interest       40            45        50          55          60         60          60          60          60           60
Total Outlay          640           850       2,035       2270        2,480      2,640       2,750       2,860       310          3310
Incremental Outlay                   210       395         630         840       ;O0O        3110        1,220       1,370          70
Net Balance               ,485          3,525      1590       1730        3020       2360         2,560       2,64o       2,740        2940
Net Gain over "Before"                    40        105       '245         535        875         1075        3,155       JP55          ,455
Financial Rate of Return = Infinity
II. Economic Rate of Return
3.  Cash Inflow - Sale
of Kapas, 1 ha Rs
1800 ton, Rs          ,250          2430      2,610       2,880       3,40       3,600        3780       3960        4140         4500
23,000 ha (Rs million) 51.8           55.9       60.o       66.2        74.5       82.8         86.9        91.1        95.2        103.5
4. Cash Outflow
Seed                 40            40        60          80          80         80           80         80          80            80
Fertilizer          300           400       400         45o         500        500         550         600         650           750
Plant Protection   200            300       400         500         600        700         750         750         900           900
Hired Labor (5o ) 45o             45o       475         500         525        550          550         575        600           650
Outlay per ha          990          1190      1,335       1,530       1,705      1,830        1,880      2,05       2,230         2,380
23,000 ha (Rs million) 22.8           27.4       30.7       35.2        39.2       42.1         43.2        46.1        51.3         54.7
Economic Rate of Return - Infinity



ANNEX 12
Table h
INIA
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETUR -
Ginnery             Cottonseed         Entire Project
Time      CDS-Res-SCF         Improvements          Processing
Costs    Benefits  Costs   Benefits   Costs   Benefits    Costs    Benefits
-Rs Million- ------- --------------------
1         153         276       15        0         13         0        181        276
2         161         301       15        6         5         7         221        3h4
-A        176         328        5        6         67        74        249        408
h         178         354        2        7        158       207        338        568
5         187         380        3        7        234      279         424        666
6         191         406        3        7        289       345        h83        758
7         193         L28        3        7        289      3h5         485        780
8         194         451        3        7        289      3115        486        803
9         196         474        3        6        289      345         488        825
10        197         477       10        6        314      345         521        828
11-19     207         477        3        6        289      345         499        828
20        207         477        3       14        289       364        499        855
Rate of
Return    Infinity                      9.8                90.0         Infinity
Sensitiv-
ity      Infinity
C -155%    Infinity                     5.4                28.8         Infinity
C -15%    Infinity                     15.3                Infinity    Infinity
B +15%    Infinity                     14.5                Infinity    Infinity
1 -1 5    Infinity                      4.7                10.5         Infinity
Benefit-Cost
Ratio                 2.1                                                          1.6
1/ Punjab CDS, SCF and Ginnery Improvement components were added during negotiations.
Economic rates of return were calculated separately. They are identical with the
rates given above and would not change over-all projrt rates.
December 15, 1975






IBRD11130
70~                                     INDIA .J   __   .  SOSEPTEMBER 1975
;', '  8w                                                    ~~~~~INDIA
AFGHANISTAN                                                                                 INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT
*           .  I,,sc.es,fr.e 0                                     AND  SEED  PRODUCTION   PROJECT
,  j!l  !                        -    Project Districts
JAMMU and KASHMIR4I                                                Boundaries of Project States
-                        "' <. ~~~~~~~~Cotton Producing Areas
o    Cities and Towns
*    Notional Capital
Boundaries of Cotton Producing Districts
H/MACHAIl s,.*                                            Stoth and Union Territory Boundories
.5dR~AVESH                                         -. --- International Boundaries
PAKISTAN
w               , i ,                              4. >s    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C    H           I            N           A                               i
t  e e r u    t        PW(nogor         <  \            ~~~~~~( T    I  B   E   T )
j             L      H     I          -sv                     l_,.   .                                         ,HI5       pRADfSt i5
UTTAR            -    NEPAL               .           <  7HUT*N
(1        cs v  C1                   <            OLucknrJw       R k            <DES                BHu r                   ANN
' Gorkhpur                                A  :.>. .AS ,'' 4A  M
spor                       oW~.zzourpu                    Ga(uohuti U   ~          
Jhan                  ad o0                 0Patna    uronU  ." MEGHA-A .
9 I H .9           NGLADESH 
RE~NGAL Z~   Jessure                Oj
"g *1   BURMA
ORISSA,  .-  /2e.  .-  -.  ;
4     2    tO    400 S    IIN   540
X4t p/t:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O -SoonOrOonA ........... on .o .-9  0
ni-    .   ,   -,   ;s-  \, eceaoo  by M.,
' ,',,, '.''  ,,,, :'.  ,,, ,,, ;.  , ,''  ,   ,, '  , ,,  , ,,'. f, > ,   (   ',-    .  .  ,'  ,'  ,.,    -  ,,,,,-  ,,'  ,-  '   .



