FILE        COPY                           Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK                       Report No. P-1743-I
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
INTEGRATED COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 14, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and my be used by reciiients only In the performance of
their ofileial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at December 8, 1975)
Rs 1.00                   =    Paise 100
US$1.00                   =    Rs 8.91
Rs 1.00                   =    US$0.1123
Rs 1 million              =    US$112,250
(Prior to September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially
valued at a fixed Pound Sterling rate.   Since then,
it has been fixed relative to a "basket" of currencies
consisting of the U.S. Dollar, the Pound Sterling, the
Deutsch Mark and the Japanese Yen. As all of these
currencies are now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions
in the appraisal report were made at US$1 to Rs. 8.00,
which was the short-term average at the time of pre-
paration.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOM4ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR TEE INTEGRATED COTTON DmVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommeniation on a proposed
development credit to the Government of India (GOI) for the equivalent of
US$18 million on standard IDA terms to help finance in integrated cotton
development project. The proceeds of the credit wouLd be channeled in
two ways. For cotton ginning, cottonseed processing aud seasonal credit
facilities, funds would be channeled through the Gover ument of India (GOI)
to the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC). The terms
of GOI's lending to ARDC would be for up to 9 years at 6.75% min-imum interest
(less 0.252 for prompt payment) for refinancing seasonal credits, and for up
to 15 years at 7.25% minimum (less 0.252 for prompt payment) for ginning and
cottonseed processing.  For civil works, equipment, technical aseistance,
training and other supports to various Central and State Goverement agencies,
funds would be channeled through the Government of India to various agencies,
according to established Government policy, on terms prevailing at the
time.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(691a-IN dated May 1, 1975), was distributed to the ]Executive Directors on
May 20, 1975. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group t' member countries for
its size and diversity. While India's economic policies and performance
have their shortcomings, the sheer magnitude of the task facing the Gov-
ernment must be recognized; the country is divided ilto more than 20 states
with a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's
poverty and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of
external resources averaging in recent years only about US$1 per head per
annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability
of water. A bad monsoon, which is inevitable from tibe to time, has a
pervasive influence over the entire economy and wipen out the results of
years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of nations]l intcoe has averaged
a modest 4% during the past 25 years, but only about 1% during the last
four years (1971/72-1974/75), which have included two consecutive monsoon
failures -- i.e., an actual decline in per capita terms.
1/   Parts I and II in this report are identical to those in the President's
Report for a Power Traluission Project (Report No. P-1737-IN) dated
December 30, 1975.
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by reciiients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
4.        Since independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and has all too often fallen short of India's
massive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
education, health services, etc.) has been spectacular, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and
structural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments
in many other parts of the world, but in other regions there has been stag-
nation and possibly even decline. Despite these improvements and although
the distribution of income in India is relatively even by comparison with
most developing countries, there has been little impact upon the living
standards of the vast masses of the urban and rural population. The Govern-
ment has become increasingly concerned about the plight of the lower income
strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200 million people
with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year, and has initiated in
recent years a variety of programs specifically designed to alleviate
poverty.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.   Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, accounting for some 45% of national product in
the early 1970s compared with around 49% twenty years previously. The share
of output contributed by the industrial sector has increased only slowly and,
since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant at a level of 23%.
There has, however, been a shift in the composition of industrial production,
with consumer, intermediate, and capital goods now contributing about one
third each, compared with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods
production 25 years ago.
6.        Despite the slow pace of change and despite the undeniable magni-
tude of the problems confronting her, India has the potential in a number
of important fields to mount a development effort which has a reasonable
chance of success in the longer run. In agriculture, as discussed in the
economic report of May 1975, the particular opportunities of substantial
promise for improving the food situation over the next decade are:
a.   Rejuvenation of the Green Revolution in wheat which
has taken place in recent years in the Northwest
and to a lesser extent in Bihar and West Bengal,
but which has been losing momentum since about
1970. This is the result of deficiencies which
can be corrected -- most importantly seed deteriora-
tion and lagging irrigation development.
b.   Better use of the vast potentials that have been
created by surface irrigation through more expedi-
tious project completion and complementary land
and on-farm improvements to ensure better manage-
ment and higher productivity of water.



c.   Acceleration of groundwater development, especially
in the Eastern regions, which are figuratively de-
scribed as "floating on water," where the untapped
potential is large and where consequently there are
large opportunities for multiple cropping, better
water management and greater crop security.
d.   Promotion of increased production of monsoon rice,
based on improved varieties which as yet have had
only modest success but which are expected, on
the basis of current research, to open the way
to much greater productivity over India's vast
rain-fed rice producing areas during the next
few years.
e.   Pursuit of the promising, although somewhat less
definite, potential for greater productivity in
dryland cultivation and for extensive introduction
of higher-yielding varieties of coarse grains.
Because of the difficulties likely to be encountered in the effective devel-
opment of these potentials, their realization is likelv to follow uneven time
patterns, probably coming in bursts of expanded production as in the case
of the Green Revolution. And, along with administrative concentration and
effectiveness, they will all require provision of the taupplies and services,
especially fertilizer and power for irrigation, which are essential comple-
ments of the necessary technical and environmental changes.
7.        Greater agricultural success would also make an important contribu-
tion to India's perenially difficult balance of payments situation, which is
frequently aggravated by the need for large food imports. From the balance
of payments viewpoint, another essential ingredient fo:r a resumption of
modest growth is sustained export volume growth at coMn3iderably higher rates
than have been achieved historically. In view of the composition of Indian
exports, the momentum for such growth would have to be provided primarily
by the rapid expansion of industrial exports which, in addition to easing
the foreign exchange constraint, would act as an important stimulant to
industrial growth - notably absent since the mid-sixties. In the field
of energy, too, there is considerable potential in the development of
recently discovered oil resources and in the continued expansion of coal
production.
8.        It is hard, however, to conceive of the timely and effective
exploitation of these various potentials unless administrative capabili-
ties, which are overtaxed and diffused in an attempt to guide and control
most economic activities, are focused on these areas. The requirement for
industrial export stimulation would appear to be more generous and expedi-
tious incentives, sufficiently attractive and reliable to induce domestic
producers to venture into the competitive pressures of world markets.
Finally, realization of India's potential will undoubtedly also require
a considerable infusion of external assistance, both to ease the payments



- 4 -
constraints and to supplement the limited domestic resources available for
development.
9.        While there is thus potential for resuming the interrupted process
of growth, there remains the formidable obstacle of the short-run difficulties
facing India. Last year began with deficient winter rains and a poor spring
harvest, with one of the worst Government wheat procurement experiences on
record, with a prospective balance of payments deficit of US$2.5 billion or
twice as much as in the preceding year, with inflation running at an annual
rate of 30% and a fiscal situation seemingly out of hand, and with serious
energy and material shortages and little prospect for alleviating them through
imports within the severe constraints of the balance of payments. It was
hardly surprising in this situation that adjustment to immediate difficulties
was the prime economic preoccupation. Growth had necessarily to take a second
place to short-run exigencies in the emphasis of economic policy in this
first year of the Fifth Five-Year Plan period.
10.       Monetary expansion, which had been running at a rate of 15% in
1973/74, was reduced through tight credit restrictions. The burden of
these restrictions was borne largely by private and Government commercial
activities, without a significant reduction in the rate of increase in net
bank financing of the Government Budget. To this curtailment of credit to
the commercial sector, there was added the deflationary influence arising
from a massive trade deficit; as a result, the rate of monetary expansion
in 1974/75 was reduced to about 6%, or less than half that of the previous
year. This, in combination with some improvements in physical supply,
relieved the upward pressure on prices, and there was even a small price
reduction in the second half of the fiscal year. With continuing tight
monetary policies, prospects are for price stability this year.
11.       The food problem was probably the single most threatening element
on the economic scene last year. A poor harvest and low procurement in the
spring was only the start of agricultural adversities. Next was failure
of the mid-year monsoon in many key agricultural areas and a monsoon (kharif)
crop which fell below that of 1973 by about 5 million tons. The result was
a severe shortage of domestic foodgrains for the public distribution system,
with availabilities only about half of an austere level of requirements. A
real food crisis was averted, however, by imports of more than 6 million tons
of foodgrains during the year ending in March 1975; this was almost twice as
much as the imports of 1973/74. With these imports and with relative empha-
sis on food distribution in the cities rather than the countryside, where
supply conditions were presumed to be not quite so unmanageable, the threat-
ening food situation was weathered, although not without hunger and priva-
tion for a great many of the rural poor who were unable to afford much of
what food was available.
12.       The oil situation was managed, although at double the cost for a
marginally lower import level, by curbs on consumption and by substitution.
Motor spirits were heavily taxed to reduce consumption by about 20%; factories
and power plants were converted from fuel oil to coal wherever possible



and supplies of fuel oil were reduced by more than 15%; coal production,
after years of stagnation, was increased by about 13%, and, after a poor
start, transport managed to keep up with the additional. coal in spite of
serious labor troubles on the railways. There was alac, some improvement in
the operation of the deficient power system through special efforts to raise
the low capacity utilization of thermal plants and by it more systematic allo-
cation of available power, with special priority for rebquirements of agri-
cultural irrigation and fertilizer production. Power shortage has remained,
nevertheless, a severe constraint on the economies of rnany regions. Among
other critical shortages, the supply situation eased in the course of the
year, especially for fertilizer, steel and non-ferrous metals. The fer-
tilizer situation was brought into better balance by a combination of
substantial imports and some lag in demand attributable largely to poor
weather and sharply increased prices. Steel and other metal supplies
also improved during the year, with some increase in domestic production
in the case of steel and also because of price resistance and uncertainty
in a sluggish industrial situation.
13.       Last year's balance of payments turned out to be manageable in
spite of a 47% jump in the import bill. Economies in import volume helped.
More importantly, there was also an increase of 282 in the value of exports.
The main payments support, however, was an increase of about US$1 billion
in external financing, made up of large drawings on the International Mone-
tary Fund including the Fund's Oil Facility, larger aid from the India
Consortium including the World Bank Group, oil purchases on credit, a
million tons of wheat on loan from the USSR, and additional food aid from
several other countries. With all this, in 1974/75 India had to draw on
its gross reserves (US$1,416 million as of March 31, 1974) by only about
US$50 million, but external debt service requirements in the medium term
were increased, as were obligations to the IMF.
14.       This year (1975/76) the economic situation, though still very
difficult, has started much more favorably than last year. With an excellent
spring (rabi) crop, and a favorable summer monsoon, fcodgrain production is
confidently predicted to achieve a record of over 110 million tons. Inflation
continues to be tightly curbed, and the wholesale pric:e index for July 1975
was actually 2.1% lower than a year earlier. With gocod rains and greatly
increased coal production, the power situation has improved, and the Govern-
ment's expectation is of 20% growth in power generatic,n over the year. However,
although the performance of several public industries has improved consider-
ably, demand, particularly for consumer goods, continues to stagnate, and
the Government's target of 5-6% growth is unlikely to be achieved. Industrial
growth of 3-4% now appears much more likely.
15.       Exports in terms of rupees rose by 15% in the first six months of
1975/76 over the corresponding period of 1974/75. Th:Ls rise reflects both
the effects of exchange depreciation and significant vrolume increases.
Despite a continued good export performance, the tradc deficit is likely to
be as much as US$1.8 billion, compared with about US$1.7 billion last year,
and hardly any trade deficit at all in 1972/73, which was before India's
terms of trade worsened. Adding to the 1975/76 trade deficit another US$800



million of payments on external obligations, and taking account also of
probable net invisible receipts, this year's overall balance of payments
deficit seems likely to come to about US$2.4 billion, or about the same
level as last year. These enormous deficits persist in any reasonable
calculation of minimum import requirements of fuel, food, fertilizer and
other essentials, for which further compression seems hardly feasible,
especially with the expected pick-up of the economy.
16.       Fortunately, nearly half of this year's prospective deficit
(about US$1,155 million) can be covered from gross disbursements of
previously committed foreign aid, including just over a billion dollars
of Consortium aid about evenly divided between bilateral and World Bank
Group sources. Eastern Europe is expected to provide perhaps US$100 mil-
lion, which is down considerably from last year in the absence of further
food assistance from the USSR. India has already drawn US$240 million
from this year's Oil Facility, and can reasonably expect about US$570 mil-
lion from disbursements out of Consortium pledges made in June. This leaves
US$600 million to be financed from other sources, including an inevitable
drawdown of foreign exchange reserves, which stood at US$1,392 million at
August 31, 1975.
17.       To highlight the crucial variables in India's longer-term pay-
ments outlook, the May 1975 economic report contains some projections, for
the 10 years following 1975/76, illustrating India's debt management prob-
lem. Broadly speaking, the conclusion which emerges is that a modest in-
crease in India's import capability - an average of 5.2% per annum after
allowing for inflation - could be achieved, provided: (a) new aid commit-
ments in real terms (including IMF facilities and the aid provided by oil
producers) remain approximately at 1974/75 levels, (b) India's exports
attain an average volume growth of about 8% between 1976/77 and 1985/86,
and (c) the bulk of new aid continues to be provided on concessional
terms. Given the above assumptions, the debt service ratio (expressed as
a percentage of export earnings) would rise from about 19% in 1974/75 to
23% in 1979/80 and then decline slowly. India's external public debt out-
standing and disbursed on March 31, 1974, stood at US$10.2 billion.
18.       A considerably improved export performance, which will require
policy measures to improve incentives, is crucial to a successful develop-
ment effort. To the degree that exports fall short of the 8% growth target,
India would not be able to increase her borrowing to meet a larger balance
of payments deficit; the result would be slower growth throughout the eco-
nomy. Against this background, it is encouraging that the Government is
showing an increased determination to exploit India's export potential.
Many measures have been announced that will make exports both more profit-
able and easier to produce. For example, priority is being given to ex-
porters' need for scarce raw materials; exporters will be protected against
rises in the price of steel that occur after the signing of contracts; pro-
duction for export beyond authorized capacity will be permitted automati-
cally; cash assistance rates will be increased to take fixed costs into
account; and import replenishment licenses will be liberalized.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 44 loans- and 75 development
credits to India totaling US$1,436 million and US$3,6:15 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$721 million has been
repaid, and US$1,519 million was still undisbursed as of November 30, 1975.
Annex II contains a sumary statement of disbursements as of November 30,
1975, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totaling US$51.8
million, of which US$9.6 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$27.7 million, US$21.2 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A stmmary statement of IFC
operations as of November 30, 1975, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting
minor irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit
operations. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are
other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank
Group has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer
sector and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institu-
tions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and com-
ponents for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active
in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban
investments have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains highly
relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural production through the
provision of essential inputs such as credit for on-farm investments, command
area development of existing irrigation schemes, and seed production form
an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next years. Special
emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small f'armers. Lending in
support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on energy-
related projects. Repeater credits for power and railways have high priority
in this context, and discussions are under way with thte Government in an effort
to identify and prepare projects specifically designed to facilitate coal
transport. Lending for fertilizer projects, which has been an important
feature in recent years, is expected to continue to occupy a prominent place
in the future program.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources
in support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic
reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a time



- 8 -
when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically different
price situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical industrial
raw materials and components continues to be an essential element within
the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group assistance
for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because
of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import com-
ponent of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be
able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in
these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
24.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 35%, 28% and 42%,
respectively, in 1973/74, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected
to continue growing. Whereas on March 31, 1974, the Bank Group's share of
India's outstanding external public debt was 23%, by 1979 it is likely to
account for about 25%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predomi-
nantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise
slowly. In 1974/75, about 14% of India's total debt service payments were
to the Bank Group.
PART III - COTTON PRODUCTION IN INDIA
General
25.       Agriculture is the dominant sector in India, accounting for about
45% of GNP and employing about 70% of the total work force. Although the
Government of India's (GOI) principal objective in the agricultural sector
in recent years has been to increase the output of foodgrains, it is also
attempting to increase the yield and output of important cash crops such as
cotton. Of about 55 million cultivators, about 13 million produce cotton.
Over 5 million workers are employed in ginning, textiles and associated
industries. In 1973/74, there were almost 700 fully mechanized cotton textile
mills with 18.5 million spindles and over 200,000 looms, and 175,000 motorized
and 3 million manually operated handlooms in the country. About 9,000 million
meters of cloth were produced, and the value added from registered estab-
lishments (employing 10 or more persons) was Rs 7,200 million, representing
about 20% of value added in manufacturing. The contribution to export earn-
ings is considerable though somewhat unstable; in 1973/74, export of cotton
textiles and cloth was Rs 2,900 million or just under 12% of all exports.
Cotton Cultivation
26.       India plants about 25% of the world's cotton crop and produces
only 8% to 10% of the world's supply. The production of about 5.8 million
bales of lint (180 kg each) and 2 million tons of cottonseed on 7.7 million



-9-
ha uses about 5% of the national gross cropped area and about 15% of the
national labor force. Average kapas yields (cotton bolls with 35% seed and
65% lint) in India range between 350 and 400 kg, and are amongst the lowest
in the world. The area, production, and yield of cotton have been stable
over the past ten years. Furthermore, staple lengths produced are not in
balance with the need of spinning mills. To supply its continuously expand-
ing textile industry, India currently needs to import over 750,000 bales of
hirsutum and barbadense types whose foreign exchange requirements are only
partially offset by export of indigenous short staple cottons. Since the
area under cotton cannot be expanded without prejudicing important food
crop requirements, it is evident that efforts must now be devoted to in-
creasing the per hectare yield.
27.       About three fifths of the area under cotton in India is planted
to indigenous varieties under relatively harsh and low rainfall conditions.
Only one fifth of the cotton area is irrigated. Lint yields differ widely
between varieties and conditions; irrigated areas average 320 kg/ha; rain-
fed areas average only 68 kg/ha. Poor quality seed, including varieties
with a low response to fertilizers, and inefficient plant protection are
responsible for such low productivity. There is a high potential for in-
creasing cotton production in India. With accelerated research to breed
more suitable and higher yielding cotton varieties, provision of improved
seed, more intensive use of insect and disease control services, and improved
cultural practices, output can be increased substantially.
Research
28.       Research is supported by the Indian Council for Agricultural Research
(ICAR) at about 30 field stations and 12 agricultural universities. During the
last five or six years, several new varieties have been evolved. However,
they do not meet all of the desired objectives. There is no improved variety
adapted to the rainfed and irrigated conditions of the project states or to
market demand for medium staple cotton. Additional research is needed to
evolve higher yielding varieties that mature in less than 180 days, have a
higher resistance to insects and diseases, and have textile qualities con-
sistent with market demand.
Seed
29.       Less than 3% of the cotton area is planted with genetically pure
seed, free from seedborne insects and diseases. The National Seeds Corpora-
tion (NSC) produces and distributes less than 600 of the 150,000 tons of cot-
ton seed required annually. Plant breeders at the agricultural universities
are responsible for producing Breeder and Foundatior. seed of the varieties
evolved and accepted for distribution to growers. However, they lack the
resources to produce the quantities or quality of seed needed for improved
production.
Plant Protection
30.       Less than 5% of the cotton area receives effective plant pro-
tection. Failure to control insects is a primary cause of low yields. One



- 10 -
of the major crop destroying insects, pink bollworm, carries over from one
crop to the next imbedded in the cotton seed and stalks. A major component
of an effective insect and disease control program would be the complete area-
wide destruction of all plant residues and the application of appropriate
and timely sprays.
Ginning and Cottonseed Processing
31.       Ginning and cottonseed processing also have a high potential for
improvement. Roller and saw gins are used. Over three fourths of the roller
gins are obsolete and operate without pre-cleaners. Lint processed by such
equipment contains 3% to 6% unginned seeds, hulls, leaves and dirt, resulting
in lower incomes to the growers and ginners. Saw gins are generally more
efficient but when saws are not replaced regularly they produce lint with
impurities, thus reducing market value. Cotton presses and storage
facilities are also inadequate.
32.       Income from cotton can be increased through more efficient cot-
tonseed processing facilities. At present, of the two million tons of cot-
tonseed produced annually, about 55% is fed directly to livestock, 40% is
processed into cottonseed oil and cake, and 5% is used for planting. Formu-
lated feed, made from deoiled cottonseed cake, would be more digestible to
livestock and of a higher nutritional value. Most of the 0.8 million tons
of cottonseed is processed with expeller-type equipment and procedures which
do not remove the linters and hulls or heat the crushed seed to deactivate
the gossypol (a toxic vegetable alkaloid pigment contained in cottonseed).
The resulting cottonseed cake contains all of the linters, hulls, and
gossypol and about half of the original oil. This is exported in cake form
and fetches a low unit value, while vegetable oil is imported in its stead,
representing an unnecessary foreign exchange outlay. Modern processing
technology maximizes production of valuable by-products (linters, hulls,
crude cottonseed oil, and cottonseed cake and meal). India's existing
solvent plant capacity would need to be more than doubled to process the
current production of vegetable oils, including cottonseed.
Cotton Production in Haryana, Punjab and Maharashtra
33.       The cotton area in Haryana increased from 54,000 ha in 1950/51 to
260,000 ha in 1973/74. Most of the increase was in Hissar district, from
21,000 ha to 215,000 ha. Likewise, the yield per ha increased from 508 kg
kapas per hectare in 1950/51 to 865 kg/ha in 1973/74. Most of the increase
was the result of adding irrigation from the Bhakra Dam system and shifting
from arboreum to hirsutum varieties. Most cotton farmers own and operate
their own land, with about a third of them owning under one hectare and
three quarters under five hectares. Hissar district lies within the Indo-
Gangetic alluvial plain with a semiarid to arid climate. The proposed
project area of 110,000 ha cotton in Hissar district is irrigated. Both
hirsutum (American Upland) and arboreum (indigenous) varieties are planted
with seeds obtained from commercial ginners and State Government. The seed
lacks assured genetic purity, freedom from insects, and acceptable germina-
tion. Use of plant protection chemicals and fertilizers in the area is low.



- 11 -
34.       Punjab plants about 500,000 ha of cotton, and cotton is the major
irrigated kharif crop in Faridkot, Ferozepur, Bhatinds. and Sangrur districts
of Punjab. These districts adjoin the Hissar district: of Haryana. Roughly
one-half of the cotton area is planted with hirsutum varieties, one-half
arboreums. Yields exceed 1,000 Kg/ha kapas, the highest in India. Land
tenure, cultural practices, soils, climate, groundwater supply and quality
in the four Punjab districts are similar to those found in Hissar. Rain-
fall in Punjab is slightly more, growers have a more assured supply of
irrigation water and use more fertilizers and plant protection chemicals.
About 75% of all aerial spraying on cotton in India iE done in Punjab.
35.       Maharashtra farmers plant about 2.8 million ha (about 37% of the
national cotton area), but produce only 1.0 to 1.5 million bales of lint
(only 20% to' 25% of the national production) each year. In the 50,000 ha
of project area in Amraoti district, the average holdi.ng has about two hec-
tares in cotton each year. Cotton is produced under rainfed conditions.
Less than 2% of the area is irrigated. Rainfall averages 785 mm and is
highly variable ranging from a low of 550 mm to a high of over 1,400 mm.
Cotton yields are below average when rainfall is eithetr above or below
normal by 20% or more. About 80% of the area is plan:ed with inferior
seed obtained by growers from their cotton gin or markceter. There is no
assurance of varietal purity, or viability, or freedom from insects and
diseases. Plant protection is inadequate and fertilizer use is low.
Cotton Ginning and Cottonseed Processing in the Projei:t Districts
36.       In Sirsa (Haryana) and Puntjab, roller gins process about one third
of the kapas, saw gins the balance. In Amraoti (Maharashtra), only roller
gins are used. Existing gins operate without pre-cleamers and with worn-out
saws. With additional production from the project, naw capacity would be
required. New equipment and effective training should enhance the value of
the lint.
37.       Currently, only one third of the cottonseed in Sirsa is processed,
with traditional expeller-type presses. In Amraoti, whilst most of the
seed is processed, the quality of oil is low and the linters and hulls are
wasted. Improvement of the existing processing facilities and the addition
of new units would increase returns and reduce imports.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       Exploratory discussions for a possible integrated cotton develop-
ment project were held in India, in November 1972. This was followed by a
preparation mission in February 1973; and subsequently in December 1973, GOI
submitted a project proposal. The project was appraised in March/April 1974
and updated in April/May 1975. The rather long time taken in the preparation
of this project is attributable to a number of changes which occurred in the
scope and size of the project in the course of processing as well as the
time required to reach agreement on methods and procedures for cotton plant



- 1 2 -
protection and research components of the project. Negotiations were held
in Washington from November 24 to December 2, 1975. The Borrower was
represented by Messrs. Agha, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture;
Arvind Pande, Deputy Secretary, DEA; C. Kempanna, Assistant Director General,
ICAR; G.L. Bailur, Agricultural Production Commissioner, Haryana; Paramjit
Singh, Development Commissioner, Punjab; K. Rajan, Managing Director,
Maharashtra Agro-Industries Corporation; and M.A. Chidambaram, Managing
Director, ARDC. A project and credit summary is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
39.       The project is designed to pioneer key improvements in three rep-
resentative Indian cotton-growing areas; one each in Haryana and Punjab (irri-
gated) and one in Maharashtra (rainfed). Total area involved would be 183,000
ha, little over 2Z of India's total planted cotton area, comprising 110,000 ha
in Hissar district (Haryana), 23,000 ha in Muktsar block of Faridkot district
(Punjab) and 50,000 ha in Amraoti district (Maharashtra). The project in-
cludes: (i) accelerated research to breed and multiply seed of more suitable
and higher yielding varieties and to devise improved cultural practices;
(ii) provision of Certified seed, intensive insect and disease control, and
improvement of other cotton production facilities for 120,000 cotton growers;
(iii) modernization and expansion of cottonseed ginning and processing;
(iv) incremental seasonal production credit to cotton growers; and (v) in-
tensive training of research and extension staff, cotton growers, ginners
and processors.
40.       The research component, supervised by the Indian Council for Agri-
cultural Research (ICAR) and executed by the agricultural universities in
Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab, would be directed towards breeding and in-
troducing higher yielding, faster maturing (150-160 days) varieties resistant
to insects and diseases, and with acceptable staple length and textile quali-
ties. Varieties developed would be field tested under improved cultural prac-
tices in the project areas. The universities concerned would be responsible
for the production of Breeder and Foundation seed for multiplication into
certified seed by state seed corporations and others.
41.       The existing agricultural extension service in Sirsa (Haryana),
Muktsar (Punjab) and Amraoti (Maharashtra) would be strengthened and trans-
formed into a Cotton Development Service (CDS). It would provide growers
with advice on production practices, a plant protection service to protect
cotton from insects and diseases, and a marketing service. Assisted by ICAR,
the universities and consultants, it would provide intensive training to ex-
tension staff, cotton growers, plant protection technicians, cotton ginners,
and processors. The CDS would also continue to provide extension services
for non-cotton related agricultural activities in the project area.
42.       In two states with larger project areas - Haryana and Maharashtra -
the project would also provide replacement of saws for existing saw gins,
precleaners on existing roller gins, improvement of existing gins, and new
gins and presses as required to meet expanded production. Cottonseed pro-
cessing facilities would be augmented by improvement and modernization in



- 13 -
existing factories and by provision of new facilities through the coopera-
tive system to process the cottonseed in these two st:ates. In Punjab, re-
habilitation of existing gins in Faridkot district would be provided.
43.       A Seasonal Credit Fund (SCF), refinanced through ARDC, would
assist growers to obtain their additional credit needis for Certified seed,
plant protection services, fertilizers and other production inputs. The
project's compulsory requirements to use Certified seed of the designated
varieties and plant protection services would, within five years, increase
input costs from about Rs 1,300 per ha to Rs 2,100 per ha in Hissar, from
about Rs 1,650 to Rs 2,650 per ha in Muktsar, and from about Rs 600 to
Rs 1,200 per ha in Amraoti.
44.       The project would provide intensive training in various activities
and at various stages of the project. CDS, assisted by ICAR, the universi-
ties, the Cotton Technology Research Laboratory (located in Bombay) and the
consultants, would organize an intensive training program for its own staff,
cotton growers, ginners, and processors. Key research and extension staff
would be sent overseas for studies and practical expe.rience. To meet the
immediate needs of expertise in cotton breeding, plant protection and crop
management, consultants with international experience would be engaged by
ICAR and assigned to the universities and CDS.
Project Implementation
45.       Success of this project depends on the willingness of some 120,000
farmers to accept modern improved cultural practices and plant protection
methods and consequent higher investment costs involved. However, the high
financial returns from such investments should providle sufficient inducement
for farmers to participate in the project. The project will also provide for
an effective Cotton Development Service operating in the project area and
adequate input and credit facilities. Improvements in existing organizations
and the creation of new ones would provide the needed management and coor-
dination. These organizations should be capable of persuading the growers
to accept changes voluntarily but, at the same time, legal arrangements would
be required to enforce the compulsory use of Certified seed and strict plant
protection methods.
46.       An Integrated Cotton Development Coordinating Committee (ICDC),
organized by GOI at the Center, would be responsible for overall coordina-
tion of the project. It would also arrange for an independent agency to
evaluate the project's overall impact. Project management and coordination
at the state level would be handled by Project Management Committees (PMC)
under the chairmanship of the respective Agriculture Secretaries. The ICDC
and the three State PMCs have already been established. ICAR would coor-
dinate and supervise the research program to be implemented by the agricultural
universities in the three states - Haryana, Maharasthra, and Punjab. The
agricultural universities would assist CDS to train i:ts field staff and
growers. It would be a condition of effectiveness that ICAR had engaged
qualified and experienced consultants in cotton breecling, plant protection
and crop management to assist the Universities and CDS in project implementa-
tion (see Sections 3.02 and 6.01(d) of The Development Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
47.       A Project Director with the rank of Joint Director of Agriculture
would manage and supervise the CDS staff and program. Each CDS, with its
three wings - Extension, Plant Protection, and Marketing and Industry -
would provide intensive production services to cotton growers, organize
and execute the plant protection program, and assist ginners and processors
to improve their operations and plan additional investments. GOI, GOH, and
GOM have agreed on overall plans for the organization and operation of each
CDS (see Sections 2.02 of Haryana, Punjab and Maharashtra Project Agreements).
48.       The production and distribution of certified cotton seed of the
recommended varieties in each state would be the responsibility of the state
seed development corporations. Seed corporations have already been estab-
lished in each of these three states. GOH, GOP and GOM have assured IDA
that the required tonnage of certified seeds for this project would be made
available through programs acceptable to IDA (Section 2.06 of Haryana, Punjab
and Maharashtra Project Agreements). Seed quality would be assured through
state seed certification agencies. It would be a condition of disbursement
of any IDA funds under the project to Haryana that a Seeds Certification
Agency be established to comply with suitable seed quality standards (Schedule
1, para 4(b)(ii) of the Development Credit Agreement). Punjab and Maharashtra
each have such agencies which, however would need further strengthening. It
is expected that IDA will consider financing production and distribution of
certified seeds by the State Seed Corporations under a proposed National
Seeds project expected to be presented to the Board later in this fiscal year.
This latter project would also make provision for strengthening of seed
certification agencies.
49.       Government regulations would be formulated under the existing laws
to: (i) specify variety (varieties) of cotton that can be planted in the
specified CDS areas; (ii) require compulsory plant protection in the speci-
fied areas; (iii) prohibit blending of different varieties of kapas before
and during ginning and baling, and require appropriate identification and
labeling; and (iv) control the movement and utilization of cottonseed into
and within a notified area. GOH, GOP and GOM have agreed that the actions
described above would be taken (Section 2.08 of the Haryana, Punjab and
Maharashtra Project Agreements).
50.       ADRC would be responsible for refinancing loans made by commercial
banks for ginning and processing facilities, and for seasonal credit to
growers. Most cotton and cottonseed processing improvement loans would be
made to existing private firms and cooperatives. It is expected that all
new plants in the project areas will be owned by cooperatives. These organi-
zations will present their proposals to ARDC for assessment before formal-
izing loan applications under the project.
51.       The Seasonal Credit Fund (SCF) would finance the full incremental
seasonal inputs required by cotton growers in the project areas, over and
above those currently obtainable from existing institutional sources. The
SCF would be a revolving fund and is estimated to reach a maximum of Rs 92
million by the end of the disbursement period. It is estimated that the



- 15 -
number of farmers availing themselves of this credit facility would increase
from the present 35% to about 65% of those in the prcject areas, while about
30% would finance the package of inputs from their own resources. ARDC will
oversee the SCF operations. An estimated 5% of the growers would not be
eligible for SCF financing and would be unable to obt:ain funds elsewhere,
although they would be required to use the compulsory seed and plant protect-
ion inputs. GOH, GOP and GOM intend to supply certified seed and plant
protection services in such cases and recover the cooits through Land Revenue
charges.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The total project cost of US$36 million equivalent includes
US$13 million equivalent (36%) in foreign exchange. The proposed Credit
of US$18 million would finance 50% of project costs :Lncluding the whole
of foreign exchange costs plus $5 million of local costs. About 22% of IDA
credit would support the costs of research and CDS through the Government
agencies, and 38% would finance growers' incremental input needs, while the
rest would supply 75% of ARDC refinancing for ginning and processing. The
remaining local costs would be financed by Central and State Governments,
ARDC, local lending agencies and ultimate borrowers. Details of cost
estimates and financing are given in Annex III.
53.       The IDA proceeds under the project would be applied as follows:
(a) US$2.5 million - Civil works and equipment for ICAR,
the universities, and CDS;
(b) US$0.8 million - Consultancy services and overseas
training;
(c) US$5.4 million - Loans for cotton ginnery and
cottonseed processing investments;
(d) US$7.5 million - Seasonal Credit Fund; and
(e) US$1.8 million - Unallocated contingencies.
54.       IDA funds for investments in civil works and equipment for ICAR,
the universities and CDS, and for consultancy services and training would
be channeled from GOI to ICAR or to the state governments concerned. The
IDA proceeds for cotton ginnery and seed processing facilities, and the
seasonal credit fund, would be channeled from GOI to ARDC. ARDC would
refinance loans made by local banks. The terms of GOI's lending to ARDC
would be for up to 9 years at 6.75% minimum interest (less 0.25% for
prompt payment) for refinancing seasonal credits, and for up to 15 years
at 7.25% minimum (less 0.25% for prompt payment) for ginning and cotton-
seed processing. For civil works, equipment, technical assistance, training
and other supports to various Central and State Government agencies, funds
would be channeled through the Government of India to various agencies,



- 16 -
according to the established Government policy, on terms prevailing at the
time. The ultimate borrowers for ginnery and cottonseed processing will
receive up to 75% of the equipment and civil works at a rate not less than
11% per annum for a period not exceeding 15 years. The cotton growers will
be lent at a rate not less than 11% per annum and for periods not exceeding
10 months. Details of these arrangements and terms are specified in
Annex III.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Civil works and equipment, amounting to about US$5 million for the
various government agencies, would be procured through local competitive
bidding procedures which have been reviewed by IDA and are satisfactory. The
civil works involved are small and scattered, and phased over five years.
The equipment would be procured over five years by a dozen different gov-
ernment agencies, and consists of hundreds of small items including spares.
There is adequate availability of the items required and satisfactory com-
petition, including representation of foreign suppliers by local agents.
GOI would advise IDA (for prior review and comment) of the bidding and eval-
uation procedures to be used for civil works and bulked equipment orders
expected to exceed US$50,000 before tariff duties and taxes. IDA would
also be kept informed of procurement procedures used for all civil works
and equipment orders below US$50,000.
56.       Contracts for civil works and equipment for individual ginners and
cottonseed processors (totalling about US$12 million) would be awarded under
local competitive bidding procedures that would be supervised by ARDC. The
procedures would be sent to IDA for review and comment. In every case where
an individual loan exceeded US$500,000, ARDC would provide IDA with the in-
vestment feasibility report, including procurement proposals, for prior
review and comment. International competitive bidding would not be suita-
ble because the borrowers' main equipment need would require compatibility
with existing installations, and prompt and effective after sales service
(including training, maintenance and spares) that only a domestically based
supplier can provide adequately. Both foreign and local manufacturers are
represented by local agents, and competition is satisfactory.
57.       As is customary in the case of agricultural credit operations,
international competitive bidding procedures would not be suitable for loans
from SCF to finance production inputs. Such loans would be advanced to
individual cotton growers and in small amounts. Growers would use the
proceeds to buy Certified seed supplied to retailers by the state seed
corporations, to pay for plant protection services and to purchase other
inputs from local sources, where there is a reasonable choice at competitive
prices. About US$10 million would be available through SCF for these
purposes.
58.       IDA disbursements would be as follows:   (i) 50% of the cost of
civil works and equipment incurred by ICAR, the universities and CDS; (ii)
100% of costs of consultants and overseas training; (iii) 75% of ARDC
disbursements for loans to ginners and processors; and (iv) 75% of ARDC



- 17 -
disbursements made through SCF. Disbursements under (iii) and (iv) would
be made against certification by ARDC, documents of *,hich would be available
for inspection by IDA during project supervision.
Economic Benefits and Risks
59.       Major benefits would accrue through increa&3ed yields arising from
higher-yielding seeds, improved plant protection, better access to growers'
credit, and increased ginning and processing efficienicy. The integrated
cotton production package is expected to increase cotton yields from the
current 900 to 1,600 kg/ha in Hissar, from 1,250 to 2,000 kg/ha in Muktsar
(Punjab), and from 320 to 560 kg/ha in Amraoti in five years. The incre-
mental increase in output over twenty years would be about 0.8 million tons
of higher quality lint and 1.5 million tons of cottouseed with a gross value
of about US$750 million. Agricultural beneficiaries would include about
120,000 farm families and 200,000 landless laborers, the vast majority of
whom are from very low-income families, engaged in th1e production and har-
vesting of cotton. An additional 2,000 jobs would be created in marketing
and processing. An estimated 65% of the additional farm and industry employ-
ment created by the project would benefit the lower 40% of India's income
earners.
60.       Investments in the improvement and expansion of the project area
cotton ginning industry would increase the value of Lint ginned by about
Rs 560 (US$70) per ton.   Investments in the cottonseed industry would
enable the conversion of 1.5 million tons of seed into higher quality
by-products. All of the edible oil recovered, about 250,000 tons valued
at US$250 million (1980 price estimate), would substitute for imports. The
recovery of linters, hulls and cottonseed meal would provide valuable by-
products currently wasted.
61.       The economic rate of return ranges from 10% for ginners and 34%
for cottonseed processing plants to rates over 100 percent for the on-farm
plus extension and research investments. The weighted average rate of return
for the whole project is also over 100 percent. However, there is a larger
element of risk in this project than is usual. This is because of (a) the
difficulties of having some 120,000 cotton growing in the project area make
compulsory nse of a specific cotton variety and plant protection measures
and (b) the high sensitivity of the project to any situation adversely
affecting cotton yields and revenues, such as weather, failure to control
pests and diseases effectively, or low prices. Nevertheless, if the long-
standing stagnation in cotton production in India is to be broken, the
benefits to be obtained from a successful project justlfy the risks, con-
sidering that the research, techniques and institutions pioneered under it
(on little over 2% of India's cotton area) could then be extended to other
areas.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMIENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreements between the Association and the States
of Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab, the draft ARDC Agreement between the
Association and Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation, the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of
the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving the
proposed development credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.       Features of the draft agreement of special interest are referred to
in paragraphs 46, 47, 48 and 49 of this report.
64.       1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President



3,2dO,h33                         577 0 fifltoan  (mid-1973)           mun           r2rastIi
AM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~~~~~~~ni                               E  r      rcodei
3,2a0,L83                                                                            350    Per~.f ... 7bl la0
SOI.AL 3301DAW.
UI P     n Cn U   LAn  )                                          no AL          90 a      220 L     2,600
ry E At.(a t.30 8/                                                 .    /    4         OLn      13.9/
cr dathb rat. (p r t                                 13 t         136 /t       1h3         12 L      12 0/4
Wre_ -Mrtt      s (V. V-W Lis bUia                   1s3     120-110            h8         80        17054
Lif. .    a   t n-rth (srn)                                      S5                                   7
3rap a   dnPti  rat                                  2.7/ba      2.9           3.2        3.3         1.3
NpaitIaa gacath rein 41f                             2.3         2.3/1         2.0 1      304         0.8
ltaatton gnb aata - nrbaa                            3/Pk         b/           82          L5       0. S 5
4An atrnonrn (prn.pe)
0-31                                               41hl/ b4                              L3 a      23.7 a
15-6h                                               56          374 r                              62 74
65 pnd over                                                          f 3                  3        13o o6
Ao doo   depod    rao t  l                            0              7                                 6
Urlao iti-nn a  Prr nt or ota1                       10k          20 /ak        1S /1      32/on      78 
F.ily planing: No of aaPt-e oaati- (en.            I, o       . .           175        409
No. no -one? 9 orf arriad  n)         ,              ,           .
99thToelLor Thro. (nouanandf )                   189,00 4!   221,000 4bg     (,lW00    13,2W0  a   25,7W00s
Pero.otap seplopYd in aWinltor.                    73 /9        71 d9,4       62         5 56 /1     3
Peroaotagn  -splop.d                                             3 lao         2/        87/        3.6 /
o     !Ino        Io=nsnainad by ghiNst 55           27 L         25                       25 or      159/r.
Pirtof                        by nathioaltnt r.o.tnad th bat 205  52/p  53                8( Sh       39 /r.
Pnroent ofr ationalia a i- on ed- bea 1-  20%          4/         5 /                        /c        67/F
Pn oot of nationabl iCoona  aonn.dtaLotl hs          Lh/0        13                        12 /,      19 
MtiOGIWTIlN OF LMBD DmOsIP
S ond by top 10 orra-
o_nd bb, saltoat lorofoannP ro
ALT   MD WlnTIIY
-      UIdtion par pd,patotan                            S,900 1      h4,090       2,350 /0    2, (1O /1    750 
Pn,latton par onetag4 paa                          8,1s0 /i    5O110         1.320 78   18 80/c     3n o,
P    dato pan baia-l lad                           2,164W      1,622 /s      -.00 4       es0 5,4    iO/
Per onpita alonna applp as S of aotanania /S         95          93            93         35         125
Par oaplta ootata Pnpply, tota (goa  par dayT/6      55          53            53          bS         90
oft vhloh -iil.d pyino                             19 L-        16 a          ib /s      22 /1      57
Oeato ratn 1-h paanI /7                              bb                                    7 .i      0.7 /
9dJ_Ed 2oarin0ry 0ohool-nrolln-t ro                  L2          79            71         112 /a-d   110
Adutd doorr        ohe   noln      tl                10          28            12         hS /X n     7z
feaa, ofachooolng P,oaid.d,f ft rnd .aond larl       12          12            12         10          13
Vfoatlooal eoooll.t a Soro .chaool e..nlln-t          4           6       4    20         10 ado       5
A=t   itrao  rata 5                                  2h L.       36 /o d7h Sb /r u         72 /d al   97/s
000sl
Aneral-, N  fparProeparrooa(ontan)                  2:6 /aja    2.8 /oJ ac                           03/o a
Nr-ont of noapiad oota vtodt pip8 datn-                                                   66 /
Aoo... to alantniolty 9.. S of tota iopoplatio)                                            23 /
Peroant of Onoal poplitianl  ononoted tonlanhtrloltip .                                    6 /nJ
rninA      on par 1000 pojodatito                       5          23 L.        l1b         b6 4       672 /
Psesangar tan. par 10WW poopuattn                   0.0           1 4           24a         eL 8     231/S
alantoto anne, cvonsaatton (Ivh, o.o.)               46         109             3         25
nneprntotoooanvpttoo p. k                                       0g per Iaa  . 2  o   b  0
oth a.,y Pi,  rfr aLsthar to tha la tent perloda or to   anontd ofhr aonro,a.nt  t.eparn or, to =o aaftla, Nodatb
the latent y-ar. Snst aioda refa in prtonipl to          dtatattoto  9    andM a  of ntIonal popI..-aoa
t. y aa1-60 o 1966-70; tla latrat faeto io               p ltin st   rdb. (rat` oseaa) for al  onroprv i  a. sat.6-
ot  t  960 nod1970.                                  1i1.W. by UMa Konanel R., saro Santa. prorda for a atoto
I., Per at la a.t        . ia an kat frio   on                     of 60 ore to,-t  proti par day, r 20 grA of
yoarn otbor eva= 1560, onloolatad by tha afa h-rato   andb aid 1protin          nhtot  ar. ato   ha al
t-otnq.a na tha 1972 WoIrd lar  AtIa.,                poniai Th-es;nda       -  n.vht lor- tba toan no 75
12 Aaoaoaaof don9ht-r pa       oa   f rapandtine          ue of tota rf m    na 293  _. of ani-1a prott LA an
age.                                    snarag.~~~~~~~-   for nb an1d, pro;~o... dtp I8 to  Third Wrld food
Z/4 rPtlatI   an00  at. are for. the ..d.oaa eadno in     P,
1966 lad 1970.                                    /5 Sea ada tong nnigbatv o that or-da daat- rama orf dildr=.
P. 1On of popolatlin onder 15 ad 65 ad ore to pp          ingls 1 ttboogh  s  to a, aa a firsta pprootoa  itdan of
tiao of ape. 15-6 for age dapaPy oti ad to lalar      n lOOt.itbnU
foror of aga 15-6b for anom-do da vo   -Uto. .     9 P.rn   a    -aoooll.d of -2r apofdi,o  polatloo of anool
/SFA0 rafanre as     n r`preadnt  ai60o69oa3 ra 4s load for saa pmW,r
qvnat     for f orl noti,itp and ,oIth, tadl=
a   1972;/b .. ettte 1onoa are     fnr 1963-6b land on ralta of ths atannal sap) norrey;  /0 0971;  /d EtUlnta;
a   196-7;       193; If a    ttd -o-I argn fr 1951-61 btAd no aoya.i ao soof-lal .e.ne;      /5 1951_60;
rbte Is ant1ts taad on birtto ottoinad bf appioatto  of Pr-rir       a antal" n-thtd to reUlta of 1951 ynd 1961
soanrasa;  /4 1960-72;  a  For the deftndtto  of r  as. IN Loak=hi= Ynaoboo12 p. ISb;     a  9inolpalloloa,
reganoy oapttnla o=d otter 2las. 60th nolan otarntarmion, soolodloog West Irtao; /1 mor the deflottlon of urb n
-ernto anIopal borotgh. and nLbs. dartota;   /1 1964; d9 1-oin1n a11 indloldol nOr partlolp-ta Jo a0V
tpof_slaoil aotttp    Z, AID   ntleta of 1.1,r foroa -o age gonn 15-59. IttO repot giora a ftgtr of 190.~
b .o dot          1971 popnlti    a     fha Alffsraoon.Ia ts to ohrog. I   to  d rIo 8s intioo of a -orkar  Io th
1971 o-s,  p=r.na anre ol- af..ifd o oy it. td,i of th ir -= aottrtttaa  7hi lad to tt, sooloaion of -e-ral
ontagorites noOh ma hon..atea;  a  o Ha9,hda;  L. 1967-68;  A  1969;  I9 1912;  /, Prreo-ol it goneroreot
rnsrtas only;  Za 1958;  /  1*9;     i Inlding mrarl ho`pitt.; /G   h-osnat n,npitol retahlt    ta od;
/90, 1960-62;  Zj5 1969-70;  it  Eatato stio tola. ovrae atWndtn;     /ad 197;    /.r Hoo tnclndiegootatio=al
otort-osro ooournn;  /gL 1969;  /  1961;  /95 PP14ltioo of 10 peare and o=r toned 00 on perorot agla data
of 1901;  /3  10 Ymore od rer   /b,   ta infer to honantoIdn; 4   Data b asd on na pl tatolatooo ofrotate
retoron;  /93 Data refN r tn boantlda to io nn-tional danliOtga;  /q IDporta onjy;  /ao  Ongiotorod app,lc100-
a lire and popIlation  a.d lodoosn.  a rnlsn, o 1Itr a        ngb it    in tl par oapit Inooo oroo tloe
The UOi;ad Ujo-don hoa hano asl1otad toan-  of tLb Oaportaoo rola of potilo -aotor a..tnrpriesa -nd tho tl;bly
d-oloped ep.ten of soolal .1lfrf.-
86  .l1y 23, 1975



ECONOMIC DEVELOP1EN    DATA
GNP PEM CAPITA IN 1972 4 us $ 110
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972/73   /                               ANtlUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US S Bin.      j                   1961/62-1965/66    1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1972/75
GNP at Market Prices               60.0       100.0                       3.1               4.3               1.0
Gross Domestic Investment          10.4       17 .2
Gross National Saving               9.8       16.2
Current Account Balance            -0.6        1.0
Resource Gap                       -Q03       -0.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)       Iabor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US   Bilin____                                        OS _S 36 of National Average
Agriculture                         23.1               46.6          130.0  72.1         178            65
Industry                           10.1                20.4           20.2  11.2         500           182
Services                           16.4                33.0          30.2   16.7         543           198
Total/average                      59.6                100.0         180.4 100.0         275           100
GOVEBNSE.NT FINANCE                                      8/
General Government                       Central Government
(Rs. Bln            of 0DP                (Rs. Bln              of GDP
1973774      1973/74  1971772-1973/74     1973/74       1973/74   g17t/72-1973/74
Current Receipts               88.11         15.2         15.8            50.59        8.7           9.2
Current Expenditures           88.89        15.5         16.0             49.t1        8.4           9.1
Current Surplus/Deficit        -0.78         -0.1         -0.2             1.48        0.3           0.1
Capital Expenditures _l/       27.70          4.8          5.2            20.99        3.6           3.9
External Assistance (net)       3.93         0.7          0.8              3.93        0.7           0.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES          e195/66    1969/70  1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74  September 1973  September 1974
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi ;;oney             61.4       93.3     105.7     122.4     L45.2     169.4       155.1         177.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector        40.8      52.4      56.9      69.0      82.5      93.5        91.2         102.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector       28.1      48.3      56.7      64.4      76.0      85.6        79.3          90-5
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                  March 1974      March 1975
Money and Quasi Money as '6 of GDP  24.0      23.6      24.3      26.3      27.9      26.8
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                 131.6     171.6    181.1      188.4     207.1     254.0       283.6         308.5
Annual percentage chas:ges in;
Whholesale Price Index               7.7       3.8       5.5       4.0       9.9      22.7                       8.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector        12.9       1.5       8.6      21.3      19.6      13.3                      11.5 Al
Bank Credit to Private Sector       12.8      15.1      17.4      13.6      18.0      12.6                      13.5  /
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the
1972 World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
j/ Estimates.
S/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
Credit to Government, as on March 21, 1975.
/ Credit to Commercial Sector, as on March 21, 1975.



ANNEX I
Po 3
BALANCE OF PAYINTS               1971/72  1.72/73   1973/74                MEROANDISI EXPDRTS (AVItAG   1971/72-19L7/75)
Mil-lion  WUS    )                                     US$Hm
Exports of Goods                  2,160    2,558     3,187     4,094       Jute Mfanufacturers        336       11
Imports of Goods                 -2,572   -2,682    -3,952     5,811       Tea                        217         7
Trade Balance                    - 412    - 124     -  765    -1,717       Cotton Textiles            170        6
NFS (net)                        -  48    - 146       n.a.        79       Iron Ore                   164         6
Engineering Goods          251         8
Resource Gap                     - 460    - 270       n.a.    -1.638       O-thers                        1     00
Total                   3:01         15
Interest Payments (net)          - 230    - 237       n.a.      n.a.
Other Factor Payments (net)      -    7   -    8      n.a.      n.a.
Net Transfers                      358    -   50      n.a.      n.a.
Balance on Current Account        - 339    - 565      n.a.      n.a.       EXTERNAL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1974
Official Aid                                                                                                 US4 mi.
Disbursements                 1,203      955     1,249h    1,750j     Repayable in foreign currency       11,612
Amortization                   -385     -408      -692      -746       Repayable through export of goods      784
Transactions with IMF               -         -         75       515       Total Outstanding and Disbursed     12,396
All Other Items                   -254        52       239        67
Increase in Reserves (-)          -225       -34      -106        42       DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1974/75     18.0 percenr
Gross Reserves (end year)         1,277    1,311     1,417     1 379
Net Reserves (end year)           1,277    1,311     1,342       75        I.
IBRHOYDA LEIIIEG. OCT. 30. 1975  cUSs HLn.)
Fuel and Related Materials
IBBD      IDA
Imports                            262       265       719     1,375
of which: Petroleum              262       265       719     1,375       Outstanding ad  Disbursed   293    2,613
Undisbursed                 292    1,267
Exports                             15        41        20      n.a.       Outstsnding including       735   3,880
of which: Petroleum                9        37        16      n.a.         UndLsbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE-
Prior to mid-December 1971 : US$ 1.00 - Re 7.5                             After end June 1972: Floating Rate
RB  1.00 - US 5 0.133333
Spot Rate Dec. 15, 1975:
"id-receeber 1971 to       : US$ 1.00 - Rs 7.27927                                approx. US$ 1.00 - Re 8.296
end June 1972              Rs 1.00 -US$0.137376                                 approx. Re 1 .00 - US$O.1205
f/ Estimated.
h/ Includes interest and hence is equal to debt service.
L/ Net of IMF credit use as of and March 1975.
,j/ Amortization and interest payments (5 750 milLion) as a percentage
of merchandise exports.
k/ Aid and trade figures converted to US doLlars using exchange rates
and IMF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside front cover
of this report or in notes to individual table.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BaNK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of i:ovenber 30. 1975)
Loan or                                                                  US$ MID
Credit No.    Year   Borrower               Purpose                  (Net of Cancellation)
Bank      IDA   Unasbursed
38 Loans/                                                         1,032.5
34 Credits fully disbursed                                                  1a84 .9
614-IN        1969     India    Tarai Seeds                          13.0      -        7.2
176-IN        1970     India    Kadana Irrigation                     -        35.0     C..
203-IN        1970     India    Punjab Agricultural Credit            -        27.5    24.6
226-IN        1971     India    Andhra Pradesh Agr. Or.               -        24.4     h.9
242-IN        1971     India    Power Transmission II                 -        75.0   46.3
249-IN        1971     India    Haryana Agricultural Credit           -        25.0     9.6
250-IN        1971     India    Tamil Nadu Agr. Cr.                   -        35.0    10.0
264-IN        1971     India    Cochin II Fertilizer                  -        20.0  4   .0
267-IN        1971     India    Wheat Storage                         -         5.0     3.8
268-IN        1971     India    Pochampad Irrigation                  -        39.0     2.5
789-IN        1971     ICICI    Industry DFC IX                      60.0      -        5.2
278-IN        1972     India    Mysore Agricultural Credit            -        40.0    13.9
279-IN        1972     India    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion        -        10.0     1.0
293-IN        1972     India    Maharashtra Agr. Cr.                  -        30.0    7.9
294-IN        1972     India    Bihar Agricultural Markets            -        14.0    13.2
312-IN        1972     India    Population                            -        21.2   15.5
342-IN        1972     India    Education                             -        12.0    11.
356-IN        1972     India    IDI                                  -        25.0    23.0
357-IN        1973     India    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion           -        58.0    16.2
377-IN        1973     India    Power Transmission III                -        85.0    32.2
378-IN        1973     India    Mysore Agricultural Markets           -         8.o     3.0
902-IN        1973     ICICI    Industry DFC X                       70.0      -       '3.2
390-IN        1973     India    Bombay Water Supply                   -        55.0    51.3
391-IN        1973     India    Madhya Piadesh Agr. Cr.               -        33.0    16.8
392-IN        1973     India    Uttar Pradesh Agr. Cr.                -        38.0    26.1
403-IN        1973     India    Telecommunications V                  -        80.0    57.3
427-IN        1973     India    Calcutta Urban Development            -        35.0    24.7
440-IN        1973     India    Bihar Agricultural Credit             -        32.0    24.d
456-IN        1974     India    HP Apple Processing & Marketing       -        13.0    13.0
481-IN        1974     India    Trombay IV                            -        50.0    46.5
1011-IN        1974     India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD              52.0      -       44.6
482-IN        1974     India    Karnataka Dairy                       -        30.0    30.0
502-IN        1974     India    Rajasthan Canal CAD                   -        83.0    62.7
520-IN        1974     India    Sindri Fertilizer                     -        91.0    86.0
521-IN        1974     India    Rajasthan Dairy                       -        27.7    27.7
522-IN        1974     India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy                  -        16.4    16.5
526-IN        1975     India    Drought Prone Areas                   -        35.0    35.0
1079-IN        1975     India    IFFCO Fertilizer                    109.0      -      108.8
528-IN        1975     India    Industrial Imports X                  -       200.0    29.4
1097-IN        1975     India    Industry DFC XI                     100.0      -       99.2
532-IN        1975     India    Godavari Barrage Irrigation           -        45-0    65.5
540-IN        1975     India    ARC Credit                            -        75.0    72.0
541-IN        1975     India    West Bengal Agr. Dev. Project         -        34.0    34.0
562-IN        1975     India    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD          -        24.0    24.0
572-IN        1975     India    Rural Electrification                 -        57.0    57.0
582-IN        1975     India    Railways 1III                         -       110.0   107.2
585-&l        1975     India    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                     40        0
Total                                                              i ,43o.5  3,635.1
of which has been repaid                                        706.1  3,6.7
Total now outstanding                                                701       14.
Amount sold                       111.5                              701.3  3,620.5
of which has been repaid     111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                       735.2   3.620.4
Total undisbursed (including*)                                       288.2   1,231.2  1,519.5
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of November 30, 1975)
hmount (US$ million)
Year           Company                          Loarn     Equity     Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5        -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.9        -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4        -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -         0.2
1963-66  Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.7       0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.E,      0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8       1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0       0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.0       0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1       3.8       18.9
TOTAL                            43.0        8.8       51.8
Less: Sold                             6.0        1.6        7.6
Repaid                          9.6         -         9.6
Cancelled                       6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                       21.2        6.5       27.7
Undisbursed                     9.5i        -         9.5



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$480.3 million in FY75 or 57%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,559.4 million as of November 30, 1975, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 789    Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21. 1971; Effective
Date: December 20. 1971; Closing Date: December 31. 1976
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8. 1973; Effective
Date: August 16. 1973; Closing Date: December 31. 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2. 1975; Effective
Date: July 1. 1975; Closing Date: December 31. 1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 789-IN is fully com-
mitted; disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project: US$13.0 million loan of June 18. 1969;
Effective Date: September 12. 1969; ClosinR Date:
December 31. 1976
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is
working efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed
quality. Seed production is meeting targets. Expansion of an existing
processing plant has been completed. Two other plants are being consider-
ably expanded. Bids have recently been cleared for orders to be placed for
the equipment necessary to complete the expansion program. Bids have also
been cleared for special drilling rigs to complete the land development com-
ponent of the project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 176    Kadana Irrigation Project; US$35.0 million credit of
February 9, 1970; Effective Date: July 29. 1970; Closing
Date: September 30. 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam. The
project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drainage
works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam construction. The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule. Some of the delays in implementation occurred at the
start of the project before major investments were irade. These will not
affect the economic justification of the project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of building materials shortages. The Government
intervened and made adequate quantities of building materials available.
In spite of an additional delay in the procurement of a large batching
plant, the dam is still expected to be completed in July 1977, which is
in accordance with the revised schedule.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation Project; US$39.0 million credit of
August 23, 1971; Effective Date: November 15. 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the agricultural development on the right
bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to some 100,000
ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-lined main
canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads. Until mid-
1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with construction
and disbursements from the IDA credit progressing ahead of schedule. For
two years, acute shortages of construction materials, especially explosives
for the canal excavation, hampered progress. As a result, construction of
the main canals has fallen about one year behind schedule, which is likely
to delay the introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area.
Since the end of 1974, all material shortages have been removed and progress
has been satisfactory. Construction of the dam is ahead of schedule. Land
development, however, is haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water
availability in the project area. Government is aware of the inadequacy of
the operation for land development and has requested IDA financing for a
Command Area Development Project, to be implemented by a Central Authority
for all farmers in need of land development. This project was appraised in
August 1975, as a major component of the proposed Andhra Pradesh Composite
Irrigation and CAD Project, which is scheduled for Board presentation early
in calendar year 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975: Effective Date: June 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30. 1980
Tendering for the supply of equipment is under way. The contract
for civil works was recently awarded after international competitive bid-
ding.
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24. 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30. 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project: US$24.4 million
credit of January 8. 1971; Effective Date: May 10. 1971;
Closing Date: June 30. 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2. 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11. 1971; Effective Date: November 2. 1971;
Closing Date: December 31. 1976
Cr. ;lo. 278   Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25. 1972;
Closing Date: December 31. 1976
Cr. No. 293    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million
credit of March 29. 1972; Effective Date:  January 31. 1973;
Closing Date: June 30. 1976
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10. 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8. 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31. 1976
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date:  March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30. 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) Project; US$75.0
million credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 5,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in



ANNEX II
Page 6
structure, being designed to provide long- and mediun-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as imported
tractors, minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of these
credits started slowly. So far as the minor irrigation components were
concerned, the main difficulties stemmed from the institutional require-
ments, in particular the introduction of changes in lending criteria and
lending terms and the strengthening of institutions responsible for assess-
ing groundwater availability. These constraints have been overcome and dis-
bursements are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following changes
in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were originally
appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well as imported
models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits. The Execu-
tive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those credits which
have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor procurement
is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation nationwide of
the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which were confined
to individual states.  ARC will continue to act as the financial intermedi-
ary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage ProJect; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date: September 30,
1978
This project originally consisted of construction of ten 10,000-
ton capacity godowns and ten 20,000-ton silo units, engineering and consult-
ing services and an All-India Grain Storage Study.   However, a July 1974
feasibility study for silos indicated that due to substantial cost increases,
particularly in steel, cement and other materials, the cost of constructing
silos, which represented the bulk of total project cDsts, would be about
double the original estimates. Also, because the increase in demand for
foodgrains in India has exceeded the increase in foodgrains supply, the
use of silos for buffer stock storage has shifted to their use as bulk
grain receiving, seasonal storage and dispatch facilities. The Food
Corporation of India (FCI), SIDA and IDA have thus agreed on a redesign
of the silo component that would provide about half the original 200,000
tons of silo storage in five units and, in addition, two to four bulk grain
receiving stations and would also avoid an overrun in project cost. The
economic rate of return of this revised component is about 15%, slightly
more than half the return estimated at the time of original appraisal. In
order to allow sufficient time to complete construction and disbursements
of the silo program, the project closing date has been extended by three
years. The FCI has completed a contract for construction of the silo
foundations at two sites. A tender has been offered for foundations at
three sites. Tenders have been cleared for a part of the equipment. The
godown component has been fully disbursed. In addition, the All-India Grain
Storage Study is progressing and the staff training program has been planned
in detail and is to be implemented soon. Project implementation is now pro-
gressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Prolect;
US$$13 million credit of January 22, 1974: Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises roads, cold
storage, juice processing, and marketing facilities. The project has
encountered initial delays due to managerial and technical problems, and
implementation has fallen behind schedule. A recent supervision mission
has recommended remedial action, including certain project revisions to
bring it in line with managerial and technical capabilities. Although
the project would be scaled down in some respects, project cost would not
be altered, since there has been a substantial escalation in prices of
equipment since appraisal. Disbursements should be completed by the pres-
ent closing date. Government's agreement to the mission's recommendations
is currently being sought.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements have been delayed mainly because of delays in mate-
rial supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local supply
were due to labor problems affecting one of the principal suppliers and
imports were delayed due to longer than anticipated leadtime required.
Revised disbursement schedules for these two credits are now expected to
be met.
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Proiect; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; UJS$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 10. 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. As a consequence
of the delays, however, the closing date of the credit had to be postponed
accordingly. For Power Transmission III, virtually all equipment has now
been ordered, and there are likely to be substantial cost overruns.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; oUS$20.0 million credit of
July 30, 1971: Effective Date: December 2. 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
Cr. No. 279    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Project; US$10.1) million credit of
January 7. 1972; Effective Date: April 5. 1972; Closing
Date: March 31. 1976
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$58.0 million credit
of February 9. 1973; Effective Date: May 11. 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Pro-lct; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19. 1974; Effective Date: August 21. 1974;
Closing Date: December 31. 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 milLion credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27. 1975; Closing Date:
September 30. 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project: US$109 milLion loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31. 1979
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the
expansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project
is now proceeding about 24 months behind schedule, mainly because of pro-
curement delays, slow progress on civil works, and shortages of steel and
cement. Procurement problems have been largely overcome, and most of the
equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin port. Another factor which
has contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the commission-
ing of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate amount of
management attention. Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant Operations
Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these problems;
the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and
procurement has been initiated. The Gorakhpur proj,lct is expected to be
commissioned late in 1975. Engineering work, procurement and site construc-
tion for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are proceeding satisfactorily, but the
project faces substantial cost over-runs due to increases in equipment prices.
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project completion
may be delayed by about four months because of longer than expected delivery
times for critical equipment. Engineering design and procurement for the
Sindri project are proceeding on schedule. The IFFCO project has been
delayed by about six months as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel
oil to naphtha.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972: Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the projects has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved and construction of the first ten markets is well advanced.
Market construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14. 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit was designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The building program will be largely completed as
scheduled in March 1976.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million Credit of
November 10, 1972: Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project implementation has improved with satisfactory progress
on civil works, preparation of equipment lists, bid documents, fellowship
programs and university development plans. The rate of disbursement has
been slow, partly due to previous delays in the selection of key personnel
and in the preparation of equipment lists, but is expected to improve by
FY1976 in line with progressing construction and equipment procurement.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project: US$25.0 million
credit of February 9. 1973: Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, there is now evidence of improvement in the utilization of this
credit.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13. 1974;
Closing Date: December 31. 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain components of the project. Action has been
taken to redefine and rephase the project construction to fit the financing
available from the Credit, local loans and bonds, and internal cash genera-
tion of the project entity. The revised cost estimate for the implementation
period 1975/76 to 1979/80 amounts to US$266 million doLlar equivalent exclud-
ing interest during construction. Project construction is proceeding and most
major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been awarded.
Financial performance of the project entity during 1974/75 was satisfactory,
but major rate increases will be necessary starting in 1976.
Cr. No. 528    Tenth Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
February 14. 1975; Effective Date: March 31. 1975: Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 14, 1975, for the initial
tranche of US$100 million and amended to US$200 million on March 7, 1975.
By the end of December 1975, disbursements had reached US$154.6 million.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Proiect; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12. 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Progress in implementation of this project was rather slow during
the first construction season (1973/74) in view of the reduction in overall
funding of the CMDA program and of organizational probl-ems, but project im-
plementation and credit disbursements have now improved. However, project
costs have increased considerably, especially for subprojects in the water
supply and sewerage/drainage sectors. In order to accommodate the project
size to funding available, CMDA has submitted a redefined project, which is
expected to be completed by May 1977, six months behindl the original sched-
ule.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US;30 million credit of
June 19. 1974: Effective Date: December 23. 1974: Closing
Date: Septmber 30. 1982
Cr. No. 521    RaJasthan Dairy Development Proiect; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8. 1975;
Closing Date: December 31. 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974: Effective Date: July 23. 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totaling US$74.1 million support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Progress on the Karnataka
project has been slow, partly because of inadequate staffing off the
Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) and partly due to poor
project management. However, improvement in implementation is expected
with the recent recruitment by KDDC of a management consultant. Training
has progressed with the completion of a two-month training program by 68
field staff. Overall, the project is six months behind the original sched-
ule. Progress under the Madhya Pradesh project is satisfactory, with the
Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation having been established and
all key staff positions filled. Field staff training has commenced and
the first dairy cooperative societies should be established by December,
1975. Detailed design studies for plant construction have begun and con-
struction is expected to begin soon. With respect to the Rajasthan project,
the Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation has been formed and key personnel
appointed. The first milk union has been formed and good progress has been
made in organizing dairy cooperatives at the village level.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project: US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30. 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project: US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30. 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975: Effective Date:
September ... 1975: Closing Date: December 31. 1979
These projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In par-
ticular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project: US$34 million
credit of April 28. 1975: Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides credit over 4 years for construction of about
18,000 shallow tubewells, 300 deep tubewells, 200 agro-service centers and
3 markets. The credit also helps the state to finance the completion of a
number of state-owned river lift and deep tubewell schemes and to improve
agricultural extension and maintenance facilities. Participating banks
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation are preparing schemes for ini-
tiating the agricultural credit components. The state government has reor-
ganized its agricultural extension services and is taking steps to reorganize



ANNEX II
Page 12
the State Water Board and to carry out studies needed for coWpletion of river
lift schemes.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas ProJect: US$35.0 million credit of
January 24. 1975: Effective Date: June 9. 1975; ClosinR
Date: June 30. 1980
This project will help to increase employment and production in
order to improve income distribution for weaker sections of the population
in six districts selected for intensive assistance. A project review mission
has just returned and has reported that despite the project's unwuaJl com-
plexity, most project components are proceeding well.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Proiect: US$57.0 million credit of
July 23. 1975: Effective Date: October 23. 1975: Closins
Date: December 31. 1979
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Prolect; US$110.0 milliaa credit of August 26,
1976; Effective Date: October 10. 1975: Closing Date
September 30. 1977
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975: Sffective Date:
January 26, 1976: Closing Date:  June 30. 1980



ANNEX 112
Page 1
INDIA
INTEGRATED COrTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           India, acting by its President.
Benificiaries:      States of Haryana, Maharashtra, and Punjab; Agricultural
Universities of Haryana, M1aharashtra and Punjab; Indian
Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR); and Agricul-
tural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC).
Amouat:             US$18 million equivalent.
Terms:              Standard.
Relending Terms:    GOI to ICAR and States of Maharashtra, Haryana
and Punjab
Financing of civil works and equipment for Haryana,
Punjab and Maharashtra Cotton Development Services in
the Project Area including staff training and consult-
tants, and for cotton research and Breeder-Foundation
seed production by agricultural universities in Haryana,
Naharashtra and Punjab, in accordance with the Bor-
rower's standard arrangements for development assistance
to ICAR and the States. GOI's present lending rate to
the States is 5-112% per annum.
GOI to ARDC
(a) For ARDC refinancing for up to nine years:
(i) Annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum,
less 0.25% for prompt payment;
(ii) Repayment at the end of nine years.
(b) For ARDC refinancing for more than nine
and up to 15 years:
(i) Annual interest rate of 7.25% minimum,
less 0.25% for prompt payment;
(ii) Repayment at the end of 15 years; and,
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d)  ARDC to Lending Banks
(i)  Annual interest rate of not less than 7.5%
to the lending banks;
(ii)  Installment repayments to coincide with
agreed collection dates from ultimate
borrowers; and,
(iii)  Refinancing by loans not exceeding 90% of
individual loans.
(e) Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(i) To Cotton Ginnery and Cottonseed
Processing Entrepreneurs
A loan ceiling of 75% of the equipment and
civil works will be financed at an annual
interest rate of not less than 11.0%. The
repayment period will be based on the earn-
ing capacity of the investment bul: not exceeding
15 years including a grace period not exceeding
3 years from the date of signing t:he loan
agreement; and,
(ii)  To Borrowers from the Seasonal Credit Fund
on-lending limited to cotton growetrs in the
project areas at an annual intereat rate of
not less than 11.0%; and the repayment period
to be based on the marketing of lutpas but in any
event not to exceed 10 months.
(f) General
Ci)  ARDC and the lending banks to maintain separate
accounts: one for investment lenAding under (e)
(i) above and one for the Seasonal Credit Fund;
(ii) Security to be in accordance with arrangements
between the lending banks and ARDC;
(iii)  ARDC to refinance only sound subprojects which,
on the basis of careful study were considered
to be financially viable, and were backed with
satisfactory technical and administrative
management; and,



ANNEX III
Page 3
(iv) ARDC to advise IDA prior to inviting bids in
respect of loans for the purchase of ginning
and cottonseed processing equipment where such
bids were expected to exceed US$500,000 equiv-
alent.
Project
Description:            The project would demonstrate practical and effect-
ive means of increasing cotton yields and maximizing
by-product recovery from ginning and cottonseed
processing, and would be executed over five years.
It would involve the following components: (i) ac-
celerated research to breed more suitable and higher
yielding cotton varieties and the production of
Breeder and Foundation seed of recommended varieties;
(ii) improved production from the use of certified
seed, more intensive plant protection services, and
cultural practices; (iii) modernization and expan-
sion of ginning and cottonseed processing; (iv) pro-
vision of a revolving fund for incremental seasonal
credit to growers; and (v) training program.



ANNEX III
Page 4
Estimated Cost:                                          (JS$ million)
Local    Foreign     Total
A. Government Agencies
(1)  ICAR              0.3      0.8        1.1
(2) Universities
(i)  Haryana      0.6      0.3       0.9
(ii)  Maharashtra 1.9       1.1        3.0
(iii)  Punjab       0.3      0.2       0.5
(3) Cotton Develop-
ment Services
(i)  Haryana      1.2      0.2        1.4
(ii)  Maharashtra 0.9       0.1        1.0
(iii)  Punjab       0.2      0.1        0.3
Sub-total
(1, 2, and 3)  5.4       2.8       8.2
(4) Contingencies
(i)  Physical     0.4      0.2        0.6
(ii)  Price        0.7      0.4       1.1
Sub-total (4)     1.1      0.6        1.7
TOTAL A           6.5      3.4        9.9
B.   On-Lending
(5)  Ginning           2.0      1.9        3.9
(6)  Cottonseed
Processing      5.2      2.8        8.0
(7)  SCF               6.6      3.4       10.0
Sub-total
(5, 6, and 7) 13.8       8.1      21.9
(8) Contingencies
(i)  Physical     0.6      0.7       1.3
(ii)  Price        1.7      1.2       2.9
Sub-total (8)     2.3      1.9        4.2
TOTAL B          16.1     10.0       26.1
Grand Total      22.6     13.4       36.0



ANNEX III
Page 5
Financing Plan:                                    (US$ million)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                   4.6     13.4     18.0
Local Sources
State Governments   6.0      -        6.0
ARDC                6.4       -       6.4
Lending Agencies    2.1      -        2.1
Ultimate Borrowers  3.5      -        3.5
Total:     22.6     13.4     36.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                        FY76   FY77  FY78  FY79  PY80 FY81
Annual     0.1   3.9   5.0    4.5   3.5   1.0
Cumulative 0.1   4.0   9.0   13.5  17.0  18.0
Procurement
Arrangements:     Civil works and equipment amounting to about US$5
million for various government agencies under the
project would be procured on the basis of local compe-
titive bidding and under procedures which have been
reviewed by IDA and are satisfactory. Contracts for
civil works and equipment for individual ginners and
cottonseed processors taking project loans (totaling
about US$12 million) would be awarded under local
competitive procedures that would be supervised by
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
and reviewed by IDA. Growers would use the proceeds
of loans from the Seasonal Credit Fund (about US$10 mil-
lion for five years) to buy certified seed to pay for
plant protection services and to purchase other inputs
from local sources, where there is a reasonable choice
at competitive prices.
The civil works involved are small and scattered, and
phased over five years; the equipment for the Government
would be procured by a dozen different agencies con-
sisting of small items required over a five-year period.
Ginners' and cottonseed processors' main requirements
would be for equipment would be compatible with existing
installations and prompt and effective after-sales
services that only domestically based suppliers can
provide adequately. However, both foreign and local
manufacturers are represented by local agents, and
competition is satisfactory.



ANNEX III
Page 6
Rates of Return:    The economic rate of return would range from 10% for
ginnery items and 34% for cottonseed processing plants,
to over 100% for the on-farm plus extension and research
investments and the entire project.
Appraisal Report:   No. 923-IN, dated December 15, 1975.



l BRD 11130
2,, _;, _ _ s;   E   , 5,                                 5 E P I f b D E D~~~~~~Icrtrort 197 5
.0~~~~'  - ~~~IND1A
AFGHANISTA  1, ~'.,   \_INTEGRATED CO-TON DEVELOPMENT
AFGHANISTANrN                                      AND SEED PRODUCTION PROJECT
.,e  ,,N /                         S5D -D Pro1rct Districts
(         JAMMU -rd /ASHMIR   '               Bu-rdoirosof Proot Store
i, _,      '                                  b/   C.,tto   Prsd.-gn A,-o
no              C~ ~~~~ COtfs  od Town
0   Not/inol Capitol
,J              1   _ --St    8                      Boundaries of Cotton Poducing Districts
- ,,*.  , *                     Srorso rDD DIODErTS - toty  u.dorio
PAKISTAN        ,  . .j    -
_o  Od*c.' roo  tse.t^.,;4, r   >  C  H    I      N      A                or
// S S sjQt    j' r  Purl;;osu         (T I B E T)
a-             .Iw-I.~~~~~bL.                     -                   PRADESH 
/,,, ,  <Zr., .S  M;rTA  ,S$r                               S    pRn  DS
/__;;  /TT AR  "' _ NEPAL                  '-          -->
A                                      N. LnccZ/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BH/UTAN  -'V
^ R A J A 5 r H A fvON 0 _>_ 
'orCrohhur      t    I  A  I  A  M  A
,,-c:y   z-c                          \,./roj
Xyy,7,          h Jro ro/ o  'n'c   0  SBsorrrg a 
~~~~~J                            ON>-  ,.        MF/j  -r
rues ISHAP  !ZAGADESHrQ
<'7' 'One                            :JLAka>~~~~ r: ~~     BURMA
B..b;. ,. 
A rcon              d        OS .J
sea~~7a
_                 ~~~~~~.W  |  -:0                           z N mx  ,mX  40  SOD  bX  IT  8X
A ra                                 L a.      E,XB  ,X dro  I 4
Triurdrur           SRI LANKA
ro  oruo  r-  cCc000-



