CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 610 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Integrated Cotton Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 26, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 610 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Integrated Cotton Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 26, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 1976, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By three separate agreements of even date herewith the first between
the Association and the State of Haryana, the second between the Association
and the Governor of the State of Maharashtra, and the third between the
Association and the State of PLInjab, the States of Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab
have each agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out
of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (hereinafter called ARDC),
ARDC has undertaken certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the
Project; and
)     The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the agreements referred to in Recitals
(B) and (C) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Coizditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Haryana" means the State of Haryana, a State of India, or any
successor thereof;
(b)   "Maharashtra" means the State of Maharashtra, a State of India, or
any successor thereof;
(c)   "Punjab" means the State of Punjab, a State of India, or any successor
thereof;
(d)   "the States" means Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab;
(e)   "ARDC" means Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation,
a statutory corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower;
(f)   "Haryana Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Haryana of even date herewith as the same may be amended from
time to time;
(g)   "Maharashtra Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Governor of the State of Maharashtra of even date herewith
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(h)   "Punjab Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Punjab of even date herewith as the same may be amended from
time to time;
(i)   "the State Project Agreements" means the agreements referred to in
Recital (B) of this Agreement and "the respective State Project Agreement" means
in relation any one of the States, any such agreement to which that State is a
party;
()    "ICAR" means Indian Council of Agricultural Research;
(k)   "Project Area" means (i) the entire area of Haryana, Maharashtra and
Punjab for the purposes of Parts A and E of the Project; (ii) the districts of Hissar
and Sirsa in Haryana, Amraoti in Maharashtra and Faridkot in Punjab for the
purposes of Parts C and D( I ) of the Project; and (iii) for the purposes of Parts
B and D(2) of the Project, (A) an area of about 110,000 hectares of irrigated
cotton in the Sirsa District in Haryana, (B) an area of about 50,000 hectares of
rainfed cotton in the Amraoti District in Maharashtra, and (C) an area of about
23,000 hectares of irrigated cotton in Muktsar block, Faridkot District in Punjab;


﻿5
(1)   "Cotton Development Service" or "CDS" means each of the Cotton
Development Services referred to in Sections 2.02 respectively of the Haryana,
Maharashtra and Punjab Project Agreements;
(In)  "universities" or "agricultural universities" means (A) the Haryana
Agricultural University at Hissar, (B) the Agricultural Universities of Maharashtra
located at Akola, Rahuri and Parbhani, and (C) the Punjab Agricultural University
at Ludhiana;
(n)   "Breeder Seed" means cotton seed of high genetic purity produced
by a plant breeder;
(o)   "Foundation Seed" means progeny of Breeder Seed produced under
supervision by a plant breeder;
(p)   "Certified Seed" means progeny of Foundation Seed produced by
statutory quality control standards for distribution to farmers for commercial
production;
(q)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARDC pursuant to Section 3.01(d) hereof, as the same
may be amended from time to time; and
(r)   "kapas" means the mature unginned cotton boll.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million dollars ($18,000.000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed


﻿64
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)   Where a contract is awarded for the supply for the Project of goods
manufactured outside India, the Borrower shall immediately grant permission to
import the goods covered by the contract, and no reviews of such permission to
import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its agencies, and all foreign
exchange required therefor shall be promptly made available.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1 %) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1986 and ending January 15, 2026, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.0 1. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices and shall provide
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall take and cause all


﻿7
its agencies to take all action (including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources) which shall be necessary or appropriate on their part to enable
the States, with respect to the State Project Agreements, and ARDC, with respect
to the ARDC Agreement. to perform       all of their obligations under the said
Agreements and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   In order to assist Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab in carrying out
Parts A, B, C and E(1) of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to each
of the States in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for
developmental assistance to the States of India proceeds of the Credit required
by each of the said States to carry out its respective Parts of the Project.
(d)   The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
ARDC on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement) satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of lending
to ARDC sums sufficient for ARDC to carry out its obligations in respect of Part
D of the Project. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purpose of the Credit and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall by the Effective Date cause ICAR to
enter into contracts for the employment and assignment to the Universities and
to the Cotton Development Services of consultants in cotton breeding, plant
protection and crop management. The qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of the said consultants shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause ICAR      (i) to assist the Universities in
developing programs for the cotton research and training included in the Project;
and (ii) to send to the Association for its review (A) not later than three months
after the date of this Agreement the overall plans for such research and training
and (B) once every year the detailed annual plans for carrying out the overall
plans.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish a committee (hereinafter called
the Integrated Cotton Development Coordinating Committee) the members of
which shall include a senior member of the Borrower's Ministry of Food and
Agriculture as Chairman, a representative from each of the Borrower's Ministries
of Food and Agriculture and of Industry, a representative from each of the States,
and from ICAR, ARDC, the Indian Cotton Mills Federation and the National Seeds
Corporation.


﻿8
(b)   The Integrated Cotton Development Coordination Committee shall be
responsible for overall coordination of the Project and shall be concerned with
resolving difficulties relating to the execution of the Project encountered by the
Borrower or referred to the Borrower by any of the States or difficulties which
to the Borrower's knowledge cannot be overcome by the State concerned without
the assistance of the Borrower.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or cause to be insured, or make,
or cause to be made, adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. The principal lending terms and conditions relating to the
Project shall be as set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, said schedule being
subject to amendment by agreement between the Borrower, ARDC and the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall with respect to ICARs accounts relating
to the Project cause ICAR to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts and financial
statements relating to the Project of ICAR for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance  with   appropriate  auditing  principles consistently  applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) cause ICAR to furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) cause ICAR to furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   any of the States shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the respective State Project Agreement;
(b)   ARDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
ARDC Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) any of the States will be able to perform its obligations under
the respective State Project Agreement; or (ii) ARDC will be able to perform its
obligations under the ARDC Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   ARDC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARDC or by others whereby
any of the property of ARDC shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
and
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestabEshment of ARDC or for the suspension
of the operations of ARDC.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿10
(a)   the execution and delivery of the State Project Agreements on behalf
of each of the States have been duly authorized or ratified by 311 necessaiy
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the ARDC Agreement on behalf of
ARDC have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action;
(c)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and ARDC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(d)   the signing of the consultants' contracts mentioned in Section 3.02
of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the State Project Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, each of the States, and each such
Agreement is legally binding upon Haryana, Maharashtra or Punjab (as the case
may be) in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the ARDC Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARDC, and is legally binding upon ARDC
in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARDC,
is legally binding upon the Borrower and ARDC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date August 24, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.0 1. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi, India
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through       their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
A uthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works and                2,500,000         50%
equipment for
ICAR, the Univer-
sities and the
CDSs
(2)   Consultancy Serv-               800,000           100%
ices and Overseas
Training
(3)   ARDC refinancing:
(a)   Loans for                5,400,000    )
cotton gin-                            )
ning and seed                          )
processing un-                         )
der Part D(l)                          )
of the Project                         )    75% of amounts
)    disbursed
(b)   Seasonal loans           7,500,000    )
to farmers un-                         )
der Part D(2)                          )
of the Project                         )
(incremental                           )
gains in Seasonal                      )
Credit Fund)                           )
(4)   Unallocated                    1,800,000
TOTAL         18,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term   "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   expenditures made by Haryana until it has (i) made available to
Haryana Agricultural University on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association adequate land at Sirsa for the production of Breeder and Foundation
Seeds; (ii) established the Seeds Certification Agency referred to in Section 2.07
of the Haryana Project Agreement; and (iii) taken the action required by Section
2.08 of the said Agreement;
(c)   expenditures made by Maharashtra until it has taken the action
required by Section 2.08 of the Maharashtra Project Agreement;
(d)   expenditures made by Punjab until it has taken the action required
by Section 2.08 of the Punjab Project Agreement;
(e)   refinancing of loans for investments in Punjab for new cotton gins
and cottonseed processing facilities; and
(f)   expenditures made by ICAR, until the use of the facilities of the Indian
Agricultural Research Institute Station at Sirsa has been made available to the
Haryana Agricultural University on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association for purposes of research under the Project.
5.    Notwithstanding   the allocation  of an  amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the


﻿14
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Crefit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    Accelerated research to breed more suitable and higher yielding cotton
varieties and to devise improved cultural practices and the production of
Breeder and Foundation Seeds of recommended cotton varieties.
B.    (1)   Strengthening of existing extension services in the Project Area.
(2)   Provision of improved cotton production facilities to about 120,000
cotton growers in the Project Area, including Certified Seed and more
intensive insect and disease control services.
C.    Improvements to cotton ginning and seed processing facilities, including the
provision of replacement saws and saw sharpeners for existing saw gins,
precleaners for existing roller gins, improvement of existing gins, the
installation of new gins and presses, modernization of existing factories and
the provision of new facilities to process cottonseed.
D.    (1)   Refinancing of improvements under Part C above.
(2)   Establishment of a Seasonal Credit Fund to provide incremental
seasonal credit to cotton growers to meet costs of Certified Seed, plant
protection services, fertilizers and other production inputs.
E.    (1)   Training of research and CDS staff, cotton growers and plant protection
workers, cotton pickers and operators of cotton gins and cotton seed
processing facilities.
(2)   Overseas advanced training in sciences related to cotton production
including fellowships for about 12 graduate agricultural scientists and
study tours for about 15 CDS and agricultural university officers.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   (a)   Contracts for civil works and equipment for Parts A, B and E(1) of
the Project shall be let after competitive bidding based on local advertising and
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Contracts for civil works and equipment refinanced under Part D(1)
of the Project shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding after local
advertising and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association and
supervised by ARDC.
(c)   Production inputs for cotton growers financed under Part D(2) of the
Project shall be procured from local sources.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts relating to Parts A, B and E(l) of the Project
and estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower and the State concerned shall
furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower and the
State concerned shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and the reasons for the intended award and shall fu.nish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and the State concerned and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿17
(c)   The terms and conditions of the coitract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit being contracts relating to Parts A, B and E(1) of the Project and not
governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower and the State concerned shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in August 1975 or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and the State
concerned and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   Borrower to ARDC:
(a)   For ARDC refinancing for up to 9 years:
(i)   annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum, less 0.25% for prompt
payment; and
(ii)  repayment at the end of 9 years;
(b)   For ARDC refinancing for more than 9 and up to 15 years:
(i)   annual interest rate of 7.25% minimum, less 0.25% for prompt
payment; and
(ii)  repayment at the end of 15 years; and
(c)   Borrower to carry exchange risk.
2.   ARDC to Lending Banks:
(a)   Annual interest rate of not less than 7.59( to the lending banks;
(b)   Installment repayments to coincide with agreed collection dates from
ultimate borrowers; and
(c)   ARDC to refinance lending banks by loans not exceeding 90% of
individual loans.
3.   Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers:
(a)   To Cotton Ginnery and Cottonseed Processing Entrepreneurs:
(i)   on-lending limited to cotton ginnery and cottonseed processing
entrepreneurs for improvement of facilities now operating or for
modern facilities to be installed in the Sirsa, Hissar and Amraoti
districts and for the rehabilitation of existing gins in Faridkot
district;


﻿19
(ii)  a loan ceiling of 75% of the equipment and civil works to be
financed;
(iii)  ultimate  borrower to have reserve capital in an amount
considered adequate by ARDC to operate the facility;
(iv)  annual interest rate of not less than 11.0%;
(v)   repayment period to be based on the earning capacity of the
investment but not exceeding 15 years including a grace period
not exceeding 3 years from the date of signing the loan
agreement; and
(vi)  all applications for refinancing of schemes having     total
investment costs in excess of $500,000 equivalent, together with
appraisal reports and all other relevant data, to be forwarded
to the Association for final approval.
(b)   To Borrowers from the Seasonal Credit Fund:
(i)   on-lending limited to cotton growers in the Sirsa, Faridkot and
Amraoti project areas for short-term cotton production credit;
(ii)  annual interest rate of not less than 11.0%; and
(iii)  repayment period to be based on the marketing of kapas but
in any event not to exceed 10 months.
4.    General:
(a)   ARDC and the lending banks to maintain separate accounts: one for
investment lending under 3(a) above and one for the Seasonal Credit Fund;
(b)   Security to be in accordance with arrangements between the lending
banks and ARDC;
(c)   ARDC    to refinance sub-projects which, on the basis of careful
feasibility and economic studies were considered to be financially sound and viable,
and supported with satisfactory technical and administrative management; and
(d)   ARDC to advise the Association prior to inviting bids in respect of
loans for the purchase of ginning and cottonseed processing equipment where such


﻿20
bids were expected to exceed $500,000 equivalent. ARDC will also provide the
Association with the proposed investment feasibility report including procurement
procedures for prior review and acceptance.


