Report No. PIC5509
Project Name                     Georgia-Second Structural Adjustment ...
Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC II)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       GEPE51034
Borrower                         Georgia
Implementing Agency              World Bank Project Implementation Unit
Ministry of Trade and Foreign
Economic Relations
42, Al. Kazbegi Av.
Tbilisi, Georgia
Tel:     (995-32) 151-069
Fax:     (995-32) 151-736
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           08/14/97
Appraisal Date                   07/97
Projected Board Date             09/09/97
Country and Sector Background
1.      In early 1994 Georgia emerged from two years of civil
conflicts with a collapsed economy. Output and tax revenues had
fallen more sharply than in other FSU countries; the huge fiscal
deficits had led to hyperinflation and a sharp depreciation of the
currency. In addition, external debt had grown to unsustainable
levels. Having made progress toward greater political stability,
the Government then turned its attention toward rebuilding the
Georgian economy and in mid-1994 embarked on a stabilization and
structural reform program with support of both the IMF and the
Bank. Since then, implementation has been sustained and
achievements have been impressive. Monthly inflation rate has been
brought down from hyperinflation levels to about 0.5 percent. The
exchange rate has remained stable since the end of 1994 and a new
currency was successfully introduced in September 1995. The current
account deficit (incl. grants) has narrowed to 4.6 percent of GDP.
Most of the bilateral debt has been rescheduled. And after four
years of continuous decline, growth resumed with real GDP growing
by 2.4 percent in 1995 and 10.5 percent in 1996 - a turnaround
unique among transition economies.
2.      The stabilization program under implementation since
September 1994 was ambitious and relied mostly on a drastic fiscal
adjustment and tight monetary policies. Government expenditures
were curtailed significantly through elimination of costly
subsidies for bread, gas and electricity and a substantial
downsizing of the budgetary sector. The core objective of



structural reform was to establish an appropriate incentive
framework for sustainable private sector development. Subsidies
were virtually eliminated, prices and trade liberalized and the
main elements of an adequate legal framework introduced.
Privatization proceeded quickly. Small-scale privatization is
virtually complete and about half of medium and large-scale
enterprises have been privatized to date. In the agriculture
sector, over 50 percent of cultivated land has been distributed to
private farmers and the legal basis for the functioning of a land
market is in place. In the banking sector, prudential regulations
and the regulatory framework were strengthened. And the collapse of
public finance compelled the Government to impose hard-budget
constraints on state-owned enterprises, and to increase the
participation of the private sector in activities which used to be
largely publicly financed, such as health, education, or transport.
The Country's Reform Program
3.      Despite notable progress and a pace of economic recovery that
exceeds what was expected at the start of the reform program, the
economic situation remains fragile. The main objectives of the
Government's reform program are to consolidate the stabilization
gains achieved through 1996 and to strengthen the current economic
recovery. The Government recognizes that sustainability of the
stabilization process will require further pursuit of revenue-
enhancing measures and at the same time, continuation of downsizing
the budgetary sector and improving the efficiency of public
spending. It also acknowledges that further development of the
private sector will require accelerating and completing
privatization, freeing the assets of enterprises that fail to be
sold, further strengthening of the financial sector and legal
framework, facilitating the development of capital markets,
pursuing efforts toward financial rehabilitation of the
infrastructure sectors (in particular, the power sector), and
adopting a policy and regulatory framework that can attract private
investment. The Government is also aware that the success of its
reform program largely depends on its capacity to reduce
substantially the incidence of poverty in Georgia. While achieving
growth will be the most effective way to reduce poverty, the
Government is committed to complement this strategy by well-
targeted poverty alleviation measures. In this context, the set of
reforms under implementation in health, education and social
protection will remain of high priority.
The Proposed Credit
Objectives and Description
5.      The objective of the proposed SATAC II is to enhance the
capacity of the Georgian Government to implement their structural
reform program. The technical assistance program would be divided
in the following components:
-- Judicial Reform and Anti-corruption Initiative. This component
would finance urgent technical assistance for the design and
- 2 -



establishment of new court administration, financing and management
systems, and carrying out of studies to assess the needs for future
public education campaigns about the role of the judiciary in a
market economy and to assess legal information dissemination needs
for the preparation of a copmrehensive legal information strategy.
Assistance has also been requested to support the ongoing efforts
aimed at fighting corruption. In this context, it is proposed to
support the work of the anti-corruption working group and to
strengthen public expenditure management.
-- Financial Sector. Following considerable progress during 1996 in
laying the legal and institutional framework for a sounder banking
sector, priorities for 1997 include resolving problems in Georgia's
large former state banks (in particular Agrobank) and further
strengthening of the supervision department of the National Bank of
Georgia (NBG). It is proposed that technical assistance be provided
in both of these areas.
-- Energy Sector Reforms. This component would comprise assistance
in auditing of power distribution companies, in facilitating the
privatization of power distribution companies, and in strengthening
the capacity of the independent Regulatory Commission which is
currently being established. The strengthening of the Commission
will cover organizational and staffing issues, development of
operational guidelines, issuance of licenses to sector enterprises,
and development of the tariff setting methodology. The Government
is moving ahead rapidly with the privatization of electricity
distribution companies. As a first step, existing distribution
companies are being grouped prior to privatization, so as to
attract strategic investors. The proposed technical assistance
would comprise the auditing of distribution companies and the
hiring of financial advisers to mobilize private investors. In
addition, advisory services to strengthen the capacity of Georgian
personnel to undertake international negotiations in respect of oil
pipeline transit will be provided.
-- Social Protection. The Government has requested assistance in
improving the targeting of social assistance programs and in
formulating a pension reform master plan which should cover policy,
institutional and administrative issues. A first step in trying to
improve the targeting of social assistance programs could be
achieved by improving the monitoring of the existing programs. It
is therefore proposed to hire consultants to analyze and evaluate
the existing monitoring system and to recommend improvements. As
part of this effort, the capacity of the Statistics Department to
carry out surveys would be strengthened. The proposed assistance
would also cover the formulation of a pension reform master plan,
support for the implementation in pilot regions of changed
processes in relation to collection of contributions and
distribution of benefits, and the design and piloting of
information systems.
-- Health. To supplement assistance under the existing health
sector project and to facilitate the implementation of health
sector reform measures supported under SAC II, the Government has
- 3 -



requested assistance in: preparing a hospital master plan; and
merging municipal health funds into regional branches of the State
Medical Insurance Company. The hospital master plan would: collect
data on existing facilities and using agreed upon criteria, decide
which facilities should be privatized, which should be liquidated,
and which should remain in the public sector. Privatization would
proceed after the master plan has been approved. Merging municipal
and federal basic packages into a single comprehensive package
would: improve equity across municipalities; simplify the system by
having a single public sector payer for contracting providers; and
simplify the introduction of primary health care in the future.
-- Resource Mobilization & Public Expenditure Management. Under the
IBC and the SATAC, assistance has been provided to initiate the
computerization of the State Tax Service and of the Customs
Department. The State Tax Service program has been very successful
in its initial phase, but the Customs program less so (though
progress has been good over the last 4-6 months). It is proposed to
finance the expansion of these computerization programs to cover
all major regional and municipal offices. In addition, assistance
has been requested in strengthening the investigation and
enforcement departments of the Customs and State Tax Service.
-- Public Information. Public information campaigns targeted at
decision makers and at the population at large are critical to
raise awareness about issues related to the transition to a market
economy. The proposed assistance would aim at developing a public
information strategy and at preparing pilot programs covering
economic reform issues currently under discussion, such as energy
sector privatization, reform of social protection, resource
mobilization, and capital markets development.
Financing
6.      The total project cost is estimated at US$5.5 million,
financed by the proposed credit of US$5.0 million equivalent and by
a contribution from the Government of Georgia in the amount of
US$500,000.
Project Implementation
7.      The proposed SATAC II would be made to Georgia represented by
the Ministry of Finance. Overall coordination of project activities
and general loan administration will be the responsibility of a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Trade and Foreign Economic Relations.
8.      All procurement under the proposed SATAC II project will be
according to Bank guidelines on procurement and on use of
consultants. For consultant contracts, terms of reference for the
activities to be financed under the proposed Credit have already
been prepared by the Government and agreed with IDA during
negotiations. The Bank's standard forms of consultant contract
would be utilized.
-4-



9.      The project manager will maintain all project accounts, which
will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
World Bank in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on auditing and
financial reporting. Audit reports will be submitted to the World
Bank not later than six months after the close of each year or the
date of final disbursement.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
10.     The Bank's Institution Building and first SATAC projects
provided the assistance required to support the Government's reform
program. Without that support, implementation of the needed reforms
would most likely have been delayed or less well orchestrated. The
timely technical assistance provided by the Bank strengthened the
Government's institutional capacity and boosted the probability of
success of the Government's program. The institutional capacity in
the areas of procurement and disbursement has been successfully
strengthened, resulting in rapid disbursement of both credits.
Environmental Aspects and Participatory Approach
11.     The proposed credit will have no direct impact on the
environment. For the purposes of OD 4.01, the proposed credit has
been placed in Category C which does not require an environmental
assessment.
12.     The main stakeholders in the institution building efforts are
the implementing agencies responsible for the various project
activities. To build ownership at that level, the activities to be
financed from the proposed SATAC II are based on written proposals
submitted by the implementing agencies at the time of pre-
appraisal. Subsequently, all proposals were developed into terms of
reference through a process of close consultation.
Program Objective Categories
13.     The proposed project would contribute to an effective
implementation of the Government's reform program - in particular
regarding critical areas, such as the energy and financial sectors.
Barriers to the development of the private sector will be removed,
creating the conditions for it to become the engine of growth. The
assistance in improving the targeting of social assistance and in
reforming basic health and education will underpin efforts to
strengthen the safety net and alleviate poverty.
Contact Point:           Cyril Muller, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-0564
Fax No.: (202) 522-3607
- 5-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 22, 1997.
Georgia
Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
Technical Annex
The Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
(SATAC II) shares the main objectives of the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC II) to consolidate the stabilization gains
recently achieved and to strengthen the current economic recovery.
The economic reform program supported by SAC II aims at:
strengthening public finance while maintaining a prudent monetary
policy; developing the private sector; and alleviating poverty.
SATAC II will contribute to meeting these objectives by enhancing
the capacity of the Georgian Government to implement the structural
reform program supported by SAC II.
The proposed SATAC II technical assistance priorities and
activities identified with the assistance of the ministries and
institutions responsible for their implementation are described
below. These activities complement technical assistance programs
from other donors. The proposed technical assistance program
amounts to US$5.5 million (including contingencies and local
contribution). Terms of Reference and detailed budgets for all
activities have been prepared and agreed during negotiations.
Project administration will be handled by the Project
Implementation Unit of the Institution Building Credit. The
Government of Georgia will contribute directly to the program
through the provision of a small amount of in-kind and local
financing to cover operational expenditures.
The institutional capacity of the Government has been
significantly strengthened through the support provided by the Bank
under the Institution Building Credit and the SATAC, and by other
donors, especially USAID, UNDP, the German Government, and the
European Union TACIS program. The following activities will be
financed:
I. Resource Mobilization (US$780,000)
Efforts to strengthen the Government's resource mobilization
capacity are critical to sustain fiscal adjustment while securing
sufficient resources for public services. Under the IBC and the
SATAC, assistance has been provided to initiate the computerization
of the State Tax Service and of the Customs Department. It is
proposed to finance the expansion of the computerization program to
cover all major regional and local offices. For these
computerization programs to have a large impact on resource
mobilization, assistance has been requested in strengthening the
- 6 -



investigation and enforcement departments of the Customs and the
State Tax Service.
Customs Computerization & Revenue Enhancement
Objectives: The Customs Department has begun to implement
(with the assistance of UNCTAD) a program of computerization of the
customs clearance process (ASYCUDA) in the Tbilisi Region,
including at the international airport. The objective of the
proposed assistance is to computerize the regional customs offices
and the main border posts and to establish direct communication
links between regions, customs posts and customs headquarters. In
addition, successful implementation of the revenue enhancement
strategy under preparation by the Ministry of Finance will require
external support to prepare the revised administrative procedures
and carry out a reorganization of customs control functions.
Scope of work: The assistance will consist of: completion of
the computerization program to include main regional offices and
border posts; completion of a communications network; and advisory
services to the strengthen the investigation division of the
Customs Department.
Amount: US$300,000
Computerization of State Tax Service
Objectives: Complete the program of automation of tax return
processing in all major tax offices and strengthen the
investigation department of the State Tax Service.
Scope of work: The completion of the program of automation of
tax return processing requires setting up of a network between the
various offices and training of staff of regional offices in the
operation of the system. Training of staff in risk management
techniques and investigative methods will be included. This
component will be implemented in close cooperation with the IMF.
Amount: US$400,000
Computerization of State Anti-Monopoly Service
Objectives: In 1996, laws on competition and consumer rights
were approved by Parliament and the State Anti-Monopoly Service
(SAMS) was given the task of implementing these laws. The objective
of the assistance is to build an information network in major SAMS
offices.
Scope of work: Based on a review of the organizational
structure of SAMS and information technology requirements, a
program computerization of offices will be developed and the
necessary equipment purchased using credit proceeds.
Amount: US$80,000
7-



II. Judicial Reform & Anti-Corruption Initiative (US$700,000)
The Georgian authorities have recognized the need to reform
the judiciary to adapt it to the needs of a market economy and have
embarked on a comprehensive program of judicial reform. The
enactment of the "Organic Law on the Judiciary", which became
effective on June 7, 1997, represents a clear sign of political
consensus among the three branches of government to initiate the
most ambitious judicial reform program in the FSU. Judiciary reform
is one element of a larger program of building the required
institutions needed for a well-functioning market economy and a
democratic and independent Georgia. In this context, President
Shevardnadze has identified corruption as a serious risk in the way
of achieving these objectives. He has declared 1997 as the "year of
the fight against corruption".
Support for Judicial Sector Reforms
Objectives: With the adoption of the "Organic Law on the
Judiciary", the reforms have only started. It will take the
establishment of new institutions and the design of new processes
to carry out the reforms. The task is daunting: the authorities
expect to fundamentally reorganize the judicial system within the
next 18 months, including the replacement of up to 60 percent of
the sitting judges and comprehensive training and re-training of
all judges. The main objectives of judicial reforms are to
strengthen the role of the judiciary as an independent third branch
of government and provide a higher quality dispute resolution
mechanism for the public. The implementation of this program is
supported by a number of donors, including the governments of
Germany and the United States.
Scope of work: This component would finance urgent technical
assistance for: the design and implementation of new court
administration, financing and management systems and carrying out
of studies to assess the needs for future public education
campaigns about the role of the judiciary in a market economy and
for the assessment of legal information dissemination needs for the
preparation of a comprehensive legal information strategy.
Amount: US$450,000
Anti-Corruption Initiative & Public Expenditure Management
Objectives: The objective of this component is to support the
working group in charge of designing an anti-corruption strategy.
This assistance would aim at bringing to the attention of the
working group the international best practices and review
administrative and legislative measures to fight corruption in
Georgia. As part of this effort, assistance would also be extended
to strengthen the overall financial management capacity of the
Government, including expenditure planning and programming,
accounting and auditing rules, and public procurement practices.
Scope of work: The assistance will include operational
- 8 -



support to the working group in the preparation of working papers
on the various sources of corruption as well as on anti-corruption
measures, and in the design of a detailed anti-corruption strategy.
In addition, workshops and seminars will be organized to consult
with all segments of civil society and government. To complement
these efforts, assistance will be extended in developing an
integrated financial management strategy. The Government has
identified the following issues on which the strategy should
provide detailed recommendations: public expenditure prioritization
and planning, public investment programming, procurement procedures
and controls, and financial reporting and auditing.
Amount: US$250,000
III. Deepening Reforms In Energy Sector (US$1,350,000)
Energy-related arrears remain a main source of "soft" budget
constraints in the economy. In 1996, the Government embarked on an
ambitious reform of the power sector aiming to restore the
financial viability of the sector and to improve service provision.
Substantial progress was achieved during 1996 in improving
collections, adjusting tariffs, designing a new regulatory
framework, and initiating the unbundling of the industry. During
1997, priority will be given to financial strengthening,
institutional reforms, and preparation of the privatization of
sector enterprises. The proposed technical assistance will aim to
facilitate institutional reforms and to mobilize strategic
investors interested in the privatization of power sector
enterprises. It is also proposed to enhance the capacity of
Georgian personnel to undertake international negotiations in
respect of oil transit.
Audit and Valuation of Power Enterprises
Objectives: Power distribution and generation companies are
being corporatized as a first step towards privatization. In this
context, power sector companies need to be audited and revalued to
enable the privatization to strategic investors and to facilitate
the grouping of companies. The objective of the component is to
complete audits which will be acceptable to prospective domestic
and international investors.
Scope of work: Consulting services are required to audit the
first set of power distribution and generation companies which will
be sold under a strategic investors program. The work will include
financial, operational and legal auditing of distribution companies
selected for privatization, and preparation of audit reports which
will be made available to the prospective domestic and
international investors as part of the information memorandum for
privatization.
Amount: US$275,000
Financial Advisors for Power Sector Privatization
-9-



Objectives: To maximize investment prospects, transfer of
technology and know-how, the Government intends to privatize
generation and distribution enterprises through sales of majority
shares to strategic investors (both domestic and foreign) on a
competitive basis. Distribution companies would be offered for sale
first, as improvements in these companies would lead to faster
financial consolidation of the power industry and increase the
value of generation companies.
Scope of work: It is proposed to hire financial advisors to
prepare information memorandums, undertake the promotion of the
sales, and assist the Government in the sales negotiations. The
project would finance only the retainer fee of the financial
advisors, and thus exclude any financing by the Credit of success
fees.
Amount: US$675,000
Strengthening of Power Sector Regulatory Authority
Objectives: In June 1997, Parliament adopted an Electricity
Law which separates the policy, regulatory and ownership functions
of the Government. The Law envisages the creation of an independent
Regulatory Commission responsible for issuing licenses and
approving tariffs in the energy sector. The objective of the
assistance is to enable the Commission to become operational
rapidly and to provide the necessary analytical underpinnings
needed to complete successfully the tariff review and the
initiation of licensing procedures.
Scope of work: During the first year of operation of
Regulatory Commission, external and local consulting services will
be provided to carry out analytical work on tariffs and licensing,
as well as on institutional issues relating to the organization and
daily operations of the Commission. Operating costs of Commission
will also be partly covered.
Amount: US$100,000
Negotiations Advisory Services for Oil Pipeline
Objective: Georgia has been chosen as one of the transit
countries for the first phase of Azeri oil exports from the Caspian
Sea. Negotiations will start shortly for the construction of oil
pipelines for the second larger phase of oil exports from the
Caspian Sea. The objective of the proposed assistance is to enhance
the capacity of Georgian personnel to undertake international
negotiations in respect of oil pipeline transit. This will improve
Georgia's ability to benefit from oil development in the Caspian
Region by attracting private investment in the necessary transport
infrastructure.
Scope of work: Consulting services to provide specialized
legal and financial advice during negotiations for oil transit, as
well as to assist in preparing related contractual documents.
- 10 -



Amount: US$300,000
IV. Public Information (US$375,000)
Public information and participation during the design of
economic reform programs are critical to their sustainability.
There is broad consensus in Georgia about the need for continued
economic reforms and for a rapid transition to a market economy. To
maintain this consensus, the Government wants to expand existing
public information and education programs.
Public Information Strategy & Preparation of Campaigns/Programs
Objectives: Under the IBC and the SATAC, the Government's
capacity to disseminate information on economic reforms was
strengthened through the establishment of an information center and
the preparation of public information campaigns on privatization.
The Government has decided to expand its public information efforts
and is developing a comprehensive strategy which would: (i) define
a program of broad-based public information and education targeted
at key audiences, such as policy makers, media, universities,
Parliament, and regional/municipal authorities; (ii) identify key
reform issues which should be the subject of intensive programs and
campaigns; and (iii) develop new instruments of communication and
information.
Scope of work: The strategy will be developed by a Working
Group which would be supported by foreign experts and local
consultants. In addition, assistance will be extended to prepare a
first set of campaigns and programs which will focus on economic
reform issues which are currently at the core of public debate,
such as energy sector privatization, reform of social protection,
and resource mobilization. Equipment needs related to carrying out
the public information campaigns will also be financed.
Amount: US$375,000
V. Financial Sector (US$320,000)
Since 1995, the Government and the National Bank of Georgia
(NBG) have made considerable progress in laying the legal and
institutional framework for a sounder banking sector. In
particular, new laws on the National Bank and on Commercial Banking
were adopted by Parliament. In addition, prudential regulations
were strengthened and strictly enforced, and a new system of
accounts based on internationally accepted standards (IAS) was
developed. The NBG designed in 1996 a restructuring program for the
banking sector consisting of a bank certification program,
privatization of the three former state banks, and restructuring
agreements for the three former state banks with the objective of
meeting rapidly the certification requirements.
- 11 -



Strengthening of Banking Supervision
Objective: The Supervision Department of the NBG developed
during 1996 a program of on-site and off-site examinations which
strengthened its supervisory capacities. The objective of the
assistance is to continue to strengthen bank certification
capacities and possibly to create a unit dealing with problem bank
situations.
Scope of work: The assistance would involve the financing of
foreign advisory services and training for the staff of the
Supervision Department. The scope of work would include the
identification of remedial actions, including informal memoranda of
understanding, cease and desist orders, penalties, mergers,
management and license removal, and liquidation proceedings.
Amount: US$150,000
Bank Restructuring
Objective: Two of the three former state banks have
substantially improved their situation over the last year and met
the requirements of their agreements with the National Bank of
Georgia. The third bank (Agrobank) has made little progress and has
been put under temporary administration. The objective of the
assistance is to enable the NBG to deal with the complex situation
arising from one or more of the banks failing to meet their
restructuring plans.
Scope of work: The precise nature of the assistance is
difficult to establish in advance. However, it is clear that the
NBG could need assistance to strengthen its capacity to deal with
the complex set of issues relating to the bankruptcy of a large
bank. Expertise required could include: valuation of banks and/or
bank assets; liquidation of a failed bank; recovery of loans and
assets of a problem bank; and merging of salvageable elements of a
failed bank.
Amount: US$170,000
VI. Social Protection (US$950,000)
The Government is committed to the principle of social equity
in the distribution of social benefits, meaning that only the needy
should receive benefits financed by the state budget. However, the
goal of accurately targeting social benefits is made formidably
difficult by the unusual and changing nature of poverty in Georgia.
The Government has requested assistance in improving the targeting
of the single social assistance program introduced in January 1997.
The state pension system in Georgia is still facing numerous
problems (very low benefits, narrow tax base, cumbersome
administration) and the Government is eager to move to a multi-
pillar pension system as public finance strengthens and capital
- 12 -



markets develop.
Monitoring of Social Protection System & Assistance to Statistics
Department
Objectives: To address the serious problems facing vulnerable
households, the Government first eliminated a number of benefits,
and then, in January 1997, replaced the child allowance program by
a back-up program of targeted assistance to vulnerable households
(defined as pensioners living alone, pensioners with children under
18 years of age, and unemployed families with children under 18).
The program has been generally successful in preventing access to
the benefits to the non-poor but may have denied access to some
deserving poor households. The objective of the proposed assistance
is to improve the targeting of the social assistance program. In
addition, the assistance would also aim at strengthening the
capacity of the Statistics Department in carrying out survey work
and studies.
Scope of work: A first step in trying to improve the
targeting of social assistance will be to improve the monitoring of
the existing program. It is therefore proposed to hire consultants
to analyze and evaluate the existing monitoring system and to
recommend improvements. In addition, the Statistics Department
would receive assistance in carrying key surveys and poverty-
related studies. The staff of the Department will be trained in
developing poverty profiles and indicators.
Amount: US$250,000
Pension Reform Master Plan
Objectives: The Government's pension strategy aims at
establishing a "three pillar" system, comprising a publicly
managed, minimum old-age pension; privately managed compulsory
earnings-related pension funds; and private pension arrangements.
The objective of this component is to assist the working group on
pension reform in the development of a coherent pension reform
strategy, including an organizational review of the state pension
system..
Scope of work: Issues that the group will consider include:
the financial viability of the current public system; a schedule
for the development of private voluntary and compulsory systems;
the drafting of legislation; and the regulatory framework for
private pension funds. The working group will also review the needs
to develop information systems aimed at improved administration
(collection of contributions, distribution of benefits and
financial control). Staff training in financial forecasting and
pension reform will be provided (including a possible study tour
and/or twinning with pension staff from other countries).
Amount: US$700,000
- 13 -



VII. Health Sector Reform (US$470,000)
Faced with rapidly deteriorating quality and coverage of
health services and constrained by a precarious budgetary
situation, the Government embarked in 1995 on an ambitious health
care reform program. The program aims at increasing private sector
participation in the health sector and limiting the state's role to
key areas where there is strong rationale for public intervention,
such as health promotion, immunization, establishment of a
regulatory framework, accreditation and licensing, research and
education. The public sector continues to ensure free access to
basic services by the most vulnerable groups. To supplement
assistance under the existing health sector project and to
facilitate implementation of health sector measures supported by
SACII, the Government has requested assistance in: preparing a
hospital master plan and in merging municipal health funds into
regional branches of the State Medical Insurance Company.
Hospital Sector Restructuring
Objective: Excess capacity in the hospital sector must be
addressed in a rational way which considers morbidity of the
population and current status of the facilities and equipment. The
Government's current strategy of using privatization and
accreditation and licensing may not result in the most efficient
use of resources. The objective of this component is to prepare a
master plan which would enable the authorities to decide which
facilities should be privatized, which should be liquidated, and
which should remain in public hands.
Scope of work: Consulting services are needed to collect data
on existing facilities, to develop criteria for privatization,
liquidation or for continued public ownership as managerially
independent entities. Once the necessary information is gathered
and the criteria agreed upon, a hospital master plan will be
developed and used to prepare the hospital privatization program.
Amount: US$250,000
Merger of Municipal and Federal Basic Packages
Objective: Financing of most of the services in the basic
package is the responsibility of the State Medical Insurance
Company, however a significant portion of the basic package (almost
30 percent) remains the responsibility of municipalities. This
limits the provision of an integrated package of services and
reduces the Government's control on the efficiency and quality of
these services. The objective of the proposed component is to
integrate municipal and federal basic packages into a single
comprehensive package.
Scope of work: Technical assistance will be provided to
improve the monitoring capacity of the Ministry of Health (MoH) on
services currently supplied by MoH, to review equity across
municipalities, and to simplify existing contracting arrangements
- 14 -



by having a single public sector payer for contracting providers.
Amount: US$220,000
(Note: Tables available only in hard copy upon request from
The Public Information Center)
- 15 -



