- Dcumnt Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCuL USE ONLY
G    lifoo -A)&o
RI_th . P-3618-NEP
REPORT AID RECO(EDATION
OF TME
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTENATINAL EVELOPI ENT ASSOCIATION
TO TME
MECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDI 16.7 MILION
TO THE
KINGDOH OF NEPAL
FOR A
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECr
June 21, 1983
II& doument ba a rested db&&Wm sd mmy be med by redpieub omy in the pefammee of
thiir dlieda de es acestmt mm  " .dlrwie be didusd whbout Weed _hck aduion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since December 17, 1982
US$1.00           NRs 14.3
IIR 1.00          US$0.07
ERa 100           US$6.99
NERC SYSTEfl
FINACIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMAD  -  Cmuniity Forestry and Afforestation Division
CFU  -  Community Forestry Unit
CFDTP -  Community Forestry Development and Training Project
CFO   -  Comunity Forestry Officer
CR   -  Community Ranger
DFO  -  Divisional Forest Officer
FAD  -  Food and Agriculture Organization
G-P  -  Gross National Product
CDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
icB   -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB   - Local Competitive Bidding
MEDU - Motivation and Education Unit
MEU  - Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
mFTW  - ministry of Forest .raining Wing
MFSC -  Ministry of Forest and Soil Conservation
ODA  -  Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PF    -  Panchayat Forest
PPF  -  Panchayat Protected Forest
SIU   -  Stove Improvement Unit
USAID -  United States Agency for International Development



FOx OMCIAL USE ONLY
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Yingdom of Nepal
Amount:                 Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 16.7 million
(US$18.0 mlllon equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Objectives      The project would promote social forestry and the
and Description:        rehabilitation of degraded forest in the eastern
Terai. It aims at increasing the availability of
forest products by motivating inhabitants in the
area to: (a) plant trees on private and panchayat
land and (b) protect forests planted or managed by
the Forest Department.
The project would support the planting of forests on
private farms, institutionally owned land, waste
land, roadsides, river and canal banks, and isolated
areas of degraded forest land. Other forests would
be established through an agro-forestry scheme, which
would permit the cultivation of crops between rows of
young trees. Areas of natural forest would be rehab-
ilitated thrnugh better management practices. The
project woula, improve support services for these
activities by strengthening, within the Forestry
Department, (a) the organization and management of
reforestation programs, (b) forestry research, (c)
monitoring and evaluation, and (d) planning. In
addition, technical assistance and specialized
consultancy services world be provided for these
activities. Opportunities for staff training would
be increased by the provision of formal and
in-service training facilities. As a conservation
measure, 20,000 fuel efficient stoves would be
distributed.
This document has a resturd distnbution and may be used by recpients only in the perfor dof
their offrid dutie Its contents mi- not otherwise be dislwd without WoddEBnkauthonk at 



- ii -
The major benefits would be increased production of
fuelvood, timber, poles, fodder, fruits and agricultural
crops. Additional benefits would accrue from increased
employment opportunities.
The project faces no major risks. Since it depends
largely on comnunity cooperatior., however, there is
a possible risk that the number of panchayats able to
mobilize sufficient popular support for reforestation
may not reach the targets expected. The project is
designed to minimize such a risk through the
motivation and publicity activities of the Forest
Department.
Estimated Cost                                              USS Million
of Project               Component                  Local   Foreign   Total
A.  Project Coordination           0.01         -      0.01
B.  National Forest Planning       0.05       0.02     0.07
C.  Conmuniry Forestry             5.75       0.91     6.66
Private Planting              (1.30)      ( -)   (1.30)
Panchayat Planting            (0.44)    (0.12)   (0.56)
Demonstration and Strip       (1.05)    (0.13)   (1.18)
Plantings
Stove Distribution            (0.22)    (0.02)   (0.24)
Other Community Forestry      (2.74)    (0.64)   (3.38)
Costs
D.  State Agro Forestry            3.54       2.09     5.63
E.  Natural Forest Hgmt.           0.28       0.02     0.30
F. Research, Training, &
Technical Assistance         1.05      2.00      3.05
G.  University & Training wing    2.09        0.94     3.03
Total BASELINE COSTS              12.77       5.98    18.75
Physical Contingencies           0.37       0.22     0.59
Price Contingencies              3.53       1.13     4.66
Total GROSS PROJECT COSTS         16.67       7.33    24.00
Less Taxes & Duties              1.70         -      1.70
Total NET PROJECT COSTS           I737        7zT    2n:W



- {li -
Financing Plan:                                   US$ f llion
Local         Foreign        Total
HUG           ~~4.8            -            48
IDA               10.7             7.3          18.0
Farmers             1.2             -            1.2
T6-7T                        24.0
Estimated IDA     IDA FY       FY84   FY85    FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
Disbursements:
Annual       0.3    1.8    3.8    3.0       2.9    3.5    2.7
Cuulative   0.3    2.1    5.9    8.9    11.8   15.3   18.0
Rate of Return:   27% (based on 84% of project costs).
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 4353 NEP, dated June 21, 1983.
map:               IBRD-16908



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOlMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
KINGDOMI OF NEPAL
FOR A SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal in an amount of Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 16.7 million (US$18.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to help finance a Second Forestry Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, "Nepal - Policies and Prospects
for Accelerated Growth" (Report No. 3577-NEP) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on October 15, 1981. The principal findings of the
report and recent developments are described below. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
3.      Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at US$156 (1981) and health and education
standards are well below the average for South Asia: life expectancy at
birth is only about 44 years, infant mortality is about 150 per thousand,
and adult literacy is only 20%. The population, estimated to be 15.0
million (1981), grew at a rate of about 2.6% per year during 1971 and
1981. About 95% of the population live in rural areas.
4.      Population density with respect to arable land has reached alarm-
ing levels and is threatening to overwhelm the resource base of the
economy. Cultivation has been extended beyond economically feasible and
ecologically safe limits in the Hills, and together with denudation of
forests to meet housing and fuel needs, soil erosion has become a critical
problem. Firewood and water have become more difficult to obtain as the
forests are reduced and springs and streams dry up. This degradation of
the agricultural base has made even the present low living standards
difficult to maintain.
5.      Agriculture accounts for nearly 60% of Nepal's CDP and 75% of
merchandise exports, and provides the main source of livelihood to over
90% of the population. Crop production accounts for about 60% of agricul-
tural output, livestock for 30%, and forestry for 10%. Paddy is the
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as in the
President's Report (Report No. P-3467-NEP) dated March 3, 1983 for
the Cash Crop Development Project in Nepal, approved by the Executive
Directors cn Mlarch 22, 1983.



-2-
predominant food crop (planted on about half of the total cropped area),
followed by maize, wheat, millet, and barley; cash crops (oilseeds, jute,
sugarcane and tobacco) are grown on about 10% of the cropped area. About
15% of total rural incomes arise from nonagricultural activities, of which
cottage industries are one of the more important and engage over one
million people on a part time basis.
6.      Apart from apricultural land, Nepal's only other important
exploitable resources are hydropower and tourism. The exploitation of the
vast hydropower resources beyond that required to satisfy the country's
own power demand, however, will depend crucially on Nepal's ability to
enter complex financial, exploitation and export agreements with neigh-
bouring countries. The tourism sector, based on Nepal's magnificent
landscape and rich cultural heritage, has been dynamic though it accounts
for only about 1% of GDP.
7.      When modernization efforts started in the early 1950s, there was
virtually no economic or administrative infrastructure, and initial
development efforts were necessarily concentrated on establishing a foun-
dation for future development. The Fifth Development Plan
(1975/76-1979/80) marked a shift in development objectives; acceleration
of economic growth, em loyment creation and raising living standards of
the population became major plan objectives. Development expenditures
rose during this period and there were substantial shifts in the composi-
tion of spending away from transport to agriculture, power and social
services. But given the lead time required for investments to start
yielding returns, GDP growth barely kept up with that of population.
8.      Part of the reason for this stagnation lies in factors beyond
Nepal's control. The difficult topography and poor resource base are
obviously important in retarding growth. Nepal's landlocked position,
long open border with India and the dependence of its overseas trade on
transit through India create additional disadvantages. While Nepal
benefits from the proximity of a vast potential market for Nepalese gcoods,
the ability to pursue independent ecoromic policy measures is circum-
scribed. Furthermore, industrial development faces the competition of a
far larger and more efficient industrial sector in India.
9.      But factors with-n Nepal's control have also contributtd to the
stagnation. Problems with the implenentation of projects in most sectors
of the econony have constrained the growth of public sector capital forma-
tion which grew at an average of only 5.5% per annum in rea] terms during
the 1970s. In addition, the returns on investments were often lower than
expected because of the lack of necessary complenentary investments or
current spending and because of managerial deficiencies. A good example
is the agriculture sector, where output stagnated desoite considerable
investments in irrigation, a virtual doubling of the irrigated area and a
40% increase in fertilizer use between 1974/75 and 1979/80. In the past,



-3-
insufficient attention was paid to bringing water down to the farm level
and this was compounded by inadequate support services such as extension
and research, by the lack of timely supplies of improved seed, fertilizer
and other inputs such as credit, and by the lack of farm-to-market roads.
Recent major irrigation projects financed by IDA and the Asian Development
Bank are now addressing some of these problems by taking more comprehen-
sive and integrated approaches.
10.     Over the past decade, the Government has made continuous efforts
to increase tax revenues. But, despite the improving long-term trends,
the revenue effort (about 9% of GDP) remains small by comparable interna-
tional standards. With limited domestic resources, current expenditures
have been squeezed in order to generate savings for investment spending,
with the result that the efficiency of total spending was lowered. Fur-
thermore, while about one quarter of total budgetary expenditures (regular
and development) was being financed by the rest of the world in 1974/75,
this proportion was 36% in 1981/82.
11.     The slow economic growth has been accompanied by a widening trade
deficit. Import payments have grown while the trend in export earnings
has been sluggish due to declining rice exports. Increased tourism
receipts and remittances, together with foreign assistance in the form of
grants and concessionary financing have, however, generally ensured that
the overall balance remained in surplus. But even so, foreign exchange
reserves have declined from being equivalent to about one year of imports
in the early 1970s to six months in 1981.
12.    IWhereas 1980/81 was a year of recovery from the previous year's
severe drought, 1981/82 was a more modest year; agricultural production is
estimated to have grown by 3.5Z and GDP by about 4%. Budgetary develop-
ments were quite encouraging. Developrent expenditures increased sharply,
and revenue collections increased substantially for the second successive
year. Nevertheless, the budget deficit increased from about 5.52 of CDP
in 1980/81 to about 8.5% in 1981/82, and while foreign assistance also
increased, domestic borrowing rose sharply. Also, the underlying economic
trends have not picked up yet, and the economy remains dependent upon the
weather. The inadequate monsoon in 1982 is likely to adversely affect
economic performance in 1982/83.
13.     On September 19, 1981 Nepal unified its exchange rate with the US
dollar at NRs 13.2 = US$1; the exchange rate with the Indian rupee was
unchanged at NRs 145 = 100.  This completed a series of steps to reform
Nepal's exchange rate system which began when a complex system of multiple
exchange rates and trade restrictions for overseas trade was replaced with
a dual exchange system on Narch 31, 1978. A technical adjustment to
reestablish cross-rates between the Indian and Nepalese rupees was
effected on Decenber 17, 1982 setting the exchange rate with the US dollar
at NRs 14.3 = US$1.



-4-
14.     During 1979-81 economic policy naking had been delayed by politi-
cal developments. Following disturbances in 1979, a referendum was held
in flay 1980, uhich reaffirmed the existing partyless system, with suitable
reforms.  The constitution was amended in December 1980 to provide, among
other things, for direct election of members of parliament. Ceneral
elections were held in Hay 1981, and the politica'l situation appears to
have since stabilized. During the past year, the Co-ernment has focussed
its attention on economic problems and on implementing the Sixth Plan
(1980/81-1984/85).
15.     The Sixth Plan reflects Nepal's determination to search for ways
to overcome stagnation and, as a set of objectives, it was endorsed by
members of the Nepal Aid group at its December 1981 meeting. The strategy
to shift investment into more productive sectors is continued and emphasis
is given to alleviating some of the factors that limited past growth. The
Plan's principal objectives are to increase production at a faster rate,
to increase employment, and to meet basic minimum needs in food, fuel
(firewood), drinking water, health services, primary education and rural
transportation. The strategy: (i) accords high priority to developing
agriculture, small-scale industries and Nepal's abundant water resources;
(ii) stresses soil conservation and population control; and
(iii) emphasizes full utilization of existing infrastructure and allevia-
tion of absorptive capacity constraints. The development strategy also
calls for full involvement of the private sector in agriculture, nanufac-
turing, trade, tourism, construction and transport operations.
16.     Achieving the Plan-s objectives will require quick-yielding sector
prograns to generate growth in the short to medium-term as well as human
resource development programs to lay the foundation for sustained growth
in the longer term. Program targets must also be made consistent with
overall financial and implementation capacity. But at the same time,
vigorous measures are needed to remove administrative and domestic finan-
cial constraints, and the Government has begun to respond to these
problems. Reforms in development administration include the establishment
of an Administrative Staff College; appointment of a Permanent Pay Commis-
sion to review civil service salaries and schemes of service; creation of
a Central tionitoring Unit within the Foreign Aid Division of the Mlinistry
of Finance; and establishment of treasury offices in each of Nepal's 75
districts to expedite the release and audit of budgetary funds. The
record 49% increase in development expenditures during 1981/82 may indi-
cate that these efforts have resulted in a speed up in disbursements. To
strengthen domestic resource mobilization, the Government has set up a
revenue training center; formed a Tariff Board which recommended increases
in indirect taxes for the 1982/83 budget; made preparations for close
monitoring of all public enterprises and also liquidated certain of these
enterprises; and decided to phase out rice and fertilizer subsidies in the
relatively higher-income Yathmandu Valley.



-5-
17.     Nepal has received substantial external assistance.  Aid commit-
ments have averaged US$165 million per year since 1976, and, according te
current indications, could reach an average of about US$300 million per
year during 1981/82-1983/84. Foreign assistance is expected to account
for about 53% of total development spending during the Sixth Plan period.
The Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1970 to assist in the overall coordina-
tion of financial and technical assistance efforts and the Group now
accounts for some 70% of all aid disbursements. The Group has met four
times at plenary meetings under the chairmanship of the Bank to discuss
overall external assistance needs; local Aid Group meetings in Kathmandu
axe also held to discuss and coordinate sectoral development strategies.
18.     Foreign aid disbursement, grew rapidly in current prices during
the past five years and were estimated to be US$156 million in 19B1/82,
but only about 42Z of disbursements were from foreign borrowings, the
remainder being grants. As of December 31, 1981, official foreign debt
outstanding was US$234 million, of which llS$192 million was due to multi-
lateral agencies. These loans were obtained on a highly concessional
basis and the grant element of total loans remains in excess of 70%. As a
result, debt service payments were only US$4.0 million during 1981, equiv-
alent to less than 2% of exports of goods and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
19.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit of
USS1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications pro.ect.  Since then,
30 additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to
Nepal to US$348.5 million equivalent, net of cancellations.  In view of
Nepal's many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a
wide variety of sectors. Six of these sectors account for about 79% of
IDA credits by amount: irrigation/agriculture (US$132.2 million for eleven
projects); water supply and sewerage (USS46.8 million for three projects),
power (US$40.8 nillion for one project); telecommunications (US$21.7
million for three projects); highways (US$19.2 million for two projects);
and rural development (US$19.0 million for two projects). The proposed
credit would be t e fourth in FY83, bringing the total amount of IDA
*        assistance to Nepal to US$366.5 nillion equivalent, net of cancellations.
No Bank loans have been made to Nepal. IFC made its first investment in
Nepal (US$3.1 million) in a hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75. In
addition, IFC approved a loan of US$6.23 million equivalent to Nepal Orind
Ntagnesite (Private) Limiited (i.e., a private company) on ltarch 16, 1982.
The loan was to help finance a US$24.9 million project to nine and process
magnesite ore. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group opera-
tions as of llarch 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing IDA



-6-
projects. It shows certain delays in the implementation of some of these
projects, particularly during the initial periods. The delays have been
largely due to Nepal's limited technical and managerial capabilities. In
order to assist Nepal in coping with this constraint, considerable techni-
cal assistar.ce is being given by Bank Croup staff, including our Resident
Representative in Kathmandu. As a result, the rate of disbursements is
improving; during FY81 and FY82, US$27.8 million and US$28.5 million
equivalent, respectively, was disbursed compared to US$65.1 million equiv-
alent disbursed during the entire previous 10 years. Project completion
reports have been prepared for four projects--First Telecommunications
(Credit No.166, US$1.7 million equivalent), First Highways (Credit No.
223, US$2.2 million equivalent), Tourism (Credit No.  291, US$3.2 million
equivalent), and Birgani Irrigation (Credit No. 373, US$6.0 million equiv-
alent). All four projects experienced delays in implementation, and
institutional improvements were less than anticipated; however, all four
generated acceptable rates of return. A completion report on the Settle-
ment Project (Credit No. 505, US$6.0 million equivalent) has also been
written and is under review.
20.     Bank Croup lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level
compared to the country's need for external assistance. The international
cornmunity has shown considerable interest in Nepal's econonic development
and, to date, the shortage of funds has not been a major bottleneck. The
main constraint on the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's
limited absorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and
implementation.  The Bank Group has assisted the Government in project
preparation through a Technical Assistance Credit (Credit No. 659-NEP,
US$3.0 million equivalent) and by acting as Executing Agency for a number
of technical assistance projects financed by UNDP. A second technical
assistance credit has also been appraised as a follow up of the first.
21.     The Bank Group's current lending strategy places major emphasis
upon the directly productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the
development of complementary infrastructure, including manpower training
programs and facilities, transport, and hydroelectric power. For agricul-
ture, the basic strategy is to assist Nepal in maintaining overall
foodgrain self-sufficiency and where possible promoting exports of
agricultural products. This strategy has two major elements: (a) to
assist in building the irrigation infrastructure in the Terai mainly to
increase paddy production, and (b) to help reduce the food deficits in the
Hills both through rural development projects which emphasize increasing
food production, and more recently through a specific Hill food project.
To increase the chances for the success of these efforts, the Bank has, at
the same time, assisted in the improvement of agricultural extension as
well as the provision of other inputs. Projects are being prepared in
forestry, leather industry, agricultural manpower development, highways
and hydroelectric power.



-7-
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
22.     The present forest area of Nepal covers about 3.8 million ha or
27% of the total land area. About 2.9 million ha of these foresta are
in the Hlills and 0.9 million ha in the Teral. Forestry, including log-
ging, contributes about 52 of total national income. Hill forests (mainly
in patches) lying in the altitude range of 300 to 2,600 meters consist
mainly of conifers, with some hardwoods. In general, fir and oak
predominate at higher altitudes, gradually giving way to chir pine (soft
wood), and a variety of hard wood species at medium elevations. In the
Terai (below 300 meters) mixed hardwood forest, mainly sal and asna, is
found, which contains no softwood species.
23.     Forest land in Nepal is under great pressure from increasing
population density, scarcity of agricultural land, and the maintenance
needs of livestock herds which significantly exceed the carrying capacity
of the available grazing lands. This in turn has caused considerable
problems of soil erosion, loss of potential agricultural lands, drying up
Of mountain streams and severe downstream flooding and sedimentation.
Because of the increased difficulty of sustaining themselves in the over-
populated Hills, many settlers have moved to the Terai to clear forests
and to attempt to establish agricultural settlements. Recent studies by
the Covernment indicate that unless encroachment into the forests for
fuelwood, fodder, and settlement is prevented, the accessible forests in
the Hills could disappear within 14 years and those in the Terni within 25
years. Governvent figures indicate that over the last 15 years, forest
land has been reduced by about 40%.
24.     In the rural areas, fuelwood accounts for 95% of all energy con-
sumption and for the country as a whole, 87X. Per capita use of fuelwood
in the Hills is estiated at a'out 1 cubic meter per year; and about 0.85
cubic meters in the Terai where less heatintg is required. Tree fodder and
pasture contribute about 74% of the feed for livestock in the Hills but
only 32% in the Terai where crop residues play a larger role.
25.     Alternatives to fuelwood, including biogas, solar energy, wind,
geothermal, hydroelectric, coal, and lignite are being explored, but it is
highly unlikely that these sources would contribute much to the total
rural energy needs even in the most optimistic circumstances.  Given
current sociological and religious attitudes, it is also unlikely that the
livestock herd can be reduced. Therefore, in order to satisfy demand for
fuelwood in the year 2000, it is estimated that 1.3 million ha of land
would need to be reforested. This would mean the reforestation of about
76,000 ha per year, which would be difficult to achieve given Nepal's
limited administrative and financial capabilities. The Bank Forestry
Sector Review of 1978 indicated that a plantation target of about 20,000



-8-
ha a year could be attained if the Government made a determined effort to
strengthen institutions and encouraged the participation of local com-
munities. The Government's present strategy is to channel available
resources towards the achievenent of the target of 20,000 ha per year.
Ownership.  All forest lands were nationalized in 1957, and                       S
private ownership of forests is now litited to a riaximur of 50 ha per
person.  In the Forest Act of 1961, the Goverrnent required the demarca-
tion of forests and established a Forest Departnent to undertake the                      a
overall administration and management of the national forests.  In recog-
nition of the need to involve local communities in the protection and
regeneration of forests, the 1961 Act was amended to recognize two types
of community forestry activities in which land and rights to forest
produce are grarted to local communities-the Panchayat Forest (PF) and
the Panchayat Protected Forest (PPF). PF was defined as Government forest
lands which have been rendered waste or contained only saplings, and which
required replanting; PPF was defined as Government forest lands which
required only improved management and protection to ensure adequate forest
cover. Net proceeds from the sale of products from PPF would be shared
between the Government and village panchayats on a 25:75 basis.  The
disposal from PF would be at the discretion of the panchayat and would not
be subject to a royalty payment. Panchayats usually arrange to distribute
forest products from PF free of charge, according to a forest managerent
plan which is agreed with the Forest Department. Should the panchayat
elect to sell forest products, 50% of the resulting revenue nay be used
for panchayat community works, and under the forest rules, 50% must b'
used to finance new panchayat forestry activities.
27.     Institutions.  The ?tinistry of Forest and Soil Conservation (1!FSC)
is responsible for the development, protection and exploitation of the
forestry sector. The main ministerial department is the Forest Depart-
ment, under t.le direction of the Chief Conservator of Forests.  The Forest
Department's jurisdiction covers the entire country and it operates
through nine operational areas known 2s circles, further divided into 40
divisions and 174 ranges. These frre.stry units do not coincide with the
administrative districts of the Covernment. The Forest Department has
been chiefly concerned with forest law enforcement and the licensing and
organization of timber sales in the Terai. It Is also responsible for
national parks and wildlife, forest survey and research. within the
Ilinistry, separate departments for soil and water conservation, botany and
medicinal plants, resettlement, and planning have also been established.
28.     Prior to 1981, there was no training facility in Nepal at the
degree or diploma level for professional forest officers. Forest officers
have, in the past, been trained at the Indian Forestry School at Dhera
Dun. Training of forest technicians at the certificate level is conducted
at Hetauda in the inner Terai, where an Institute of Forestry has been
established under Tribhuvan University. A three-year degree course in



-9-
forestry and soil conservation has now been established. It is tem-
porarily located at the Institute of Forestry, Retauda, but will
ultimately be placed at the Institute of Forestry at Pokhara. Previously,
training was mainly oriented toward commercial forestry production in the
*          Terai, but with the increasing importance of community forestry tbroughout
the country and the need for large-scale plantations of fast-growing
species ih the Terai, forestry training is being gradually reorientated
towards community and plantation forestry.
29.     Development Strategy.  The Forestry Sector Review undertaken in
1978 by the Bank identified five major issues currently facing the
forestry sector in Nepal: (a) rural energy shortages; (b) soil erosion;
(c) land use policy in the Terai; (d) donestic and industrial wood sup-
plies; and (e) social and institutional constraints to implementing
effective protection and development programs. To address these issues,
the Sector Review recommended that the development strategy give priority
to a national reforestation program. Such a program would ensure improved
fuelwuod and forest fodder supplies and would also play a significant role
in protecting hillsides from further erosion.
30.     While additional administrative and financial resources would be
allocated to this program,. the key to success was identified as the
ability to mobilize the cooperation of village people. Through PF and PPF
programs, the Government is seeking to re-establish responsibility in
local communities for forestry development and for forest protection and
management. To ensure maxinum impact from the forestry operation, the
highest priority would be given to the production of fuelwood and leaf
fodder-the most urgent and visible needs. This would relieve pressure on
existing forests and ease the burden on fuelwood and fodder collection.
31.    Traditionally the Forest Department has been concerned with conr-
mercial forestry and resettlement operations requiring forestry personnel
to function in policing and regulatory roles. The Government has recog-
nized that social forestry, being based on direct participation by the
local people in forestry activities and benefit sharing, requires the
Forest Department to work in harmony with village communities. To this
end the Forest Department is seeking to encourage forestry extension and
close cooperation between forestry personnel and the local people, and
has established a Community Forestry and Afforestation Div'sion (CFAD)
within the Forest Department to handle social forestry programs. Besides
a limited program of afforestation financed from its own resources, FD
also participates in forestry programs from nultisectoral rural develop-
ment projects and the IDA supported Community Forestry Development and
Training Project (CFDTP). The Government's national community forestry
program would ultimately cover all districts.
32.     Bank Group Support.  The Bank Group financed a Community Forestry
Development and Training Project (The First Forestry Project) in 1980.



-10-
The related credit (Credit 1008-NEP) of US$17.0 million became effective
on September 19, 1980 and seeks to plant, enrich or protect about 51,000
ha of forest land. The project aims at increasing the supply of fuelvood
and fodder in the Hills by establishing new plantations and rehabilitating
degraded forests. The First Rural Development Project (Credit 617-NEP,
US$8.0 million equivalent of April 30, 1976) includes a provision for
planting 2,500 ha of fuel and fodder trees and rehabilitating about 6,000
ha of forest in Nuwakot and Rasuwa districts. The implementation of this
component has been satisfactory, with about 70% of the target for planting
and rehabilitation having been achieved. Over one million people have
been brought into contact with the concepts and aims of social forestry.
PART IV - THE PROJECr
33.     The Project was prepared by Ris Majesty's Government with assi6-
tance from the FADIIBRD Cooperative Program. It was appraised in Novem-
ber/December 1982, and negotiations were held in Washington during May
4-9, 1983. The Nepalese delegation was led by Mr. N. Raque, Chief Conser-
vator of Forests, Hinistry of Forests and Soil Conservation. The staff
appraisal report (No. 4353-NEP, dated June 21, 1983) is being distributed
separately. A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
34.     The principal objectives of the project would be to:  (a) increase
supplies of fuelwood and other forest products in the eastern Terai
through establishment of new plantations and rehabilitation of degraded
forest areas; (b) promote and distribute improved voodburning stoves to
increase the efficiency of fuelwood use; and (c) support training
facilities in Nepal to help meet the manpower needs of the forestry sec-
tor.
Project Description
35.     The six-year project would comprise:
(a) strengthening the operational and managerial capacity and
forestry research activities of the Forest Department through
the provision of additional staff, training, buildings,
equipment and vehicles;
(b) establishing forest plantations on about 2,000 ha of
Panchayat Forest; establishing the equivalent of 2,550 ha of
strip plantations on roadsides, canal banks and river banks;
2,200 ha of demonstration woodlots and 5,900 ha of
agro-forestry plantations on land presently under degraded
forest; and providing 32 million seedlings for planting on
private and institutionally owned lard in the project area;



-11-
(c) improving about 35,000 ha of natural forest by silvicultural
management techniques;
(d) manufacturing and d'Istributing about 20,000 improved stoves;
(e)  expanding forestry training facilities at the Institute of
Forestry at Retauda, the Institute of Forestry at Pokhara and
the Ministry of Forest's Training Wing at Rathmandu through
the provision of buildings and equipment; providing an
in-service training program and study tours for Divisional
Forest Officers, Community Forest Officers, Plantation
Officers, Community Rangers and junior staff of the Forest
Department; technical training of 109 Assistant Rangers in
the Institute of Forestry at Retauda and overseas profec-
sional training of 34 Forest Officers;
(:C) expanding the Forest Department's existing research program
to include research in social forestry;
Cg) preparing a National Forestry Development Plan;
Ch) strengthening and maintaining the evaluation activities of
the Forest Department, by providing additional staff and
technical assistance; and
Ci) providing consultancy services for a mid-term review of the
project, forestry research, in-service training, stove tech-
nology, socio-econonic surveys. nursery and plantation
management, and preparing the National Forestry Development
Plan.
Organization and Implementation
36.     Project Coordination.  The position of Project Coordinator would
be established in the Forest Department for the purpose of coordinating
the implementation of the various components of the project. The designa-
tion of the Chief Conservator of Forests as Project Coordinator would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (DCA, Section 6.01). In order to assist
the Project Coordinator in his day to day activities, an officer with
suitable qualifications and experience would be appointed not later than
30 days after credit effectiveness (DCA, Section 3.05). The Project
Coordinator would also be assisted by the Project Coordinating Committee
established under the First Forestry Project, which would provide coor-
dination and cooperation between the different ministries involved in
project implementation.  The Committee is under the chairmanship of the
Secretary for Forests and its membership includes the Director General for
Soil and Water Conservation, the Dean of the Institute of Forestry, the



-12-
Read of the Survey and Research Div'sion of the Forest Department, the
Director General of the Survey Department of the Ministry of Land Reform,
and representatives from the National Planning Cnmmission and the Minis-
tries of Panchayat and Local Development, Finance, Education, Agriculture,
Water Resources and Works and Transport.
37.     Community Forestry.  The Community Forestry and Afforestation
Division (CFAD) has been set up as part of the First Forestry Project to
provide an administrative and operational structure for community forestry
activities. Under the proposed project, CFAD would be enlarged and placed
under the direction of a Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests; and its
forest support units would be strengthened by the addition of three
professional officers for motivation and education, monitoring and evalua2-
tion, and stove promotion. A new Terai Community Forestry Project Unit
would be added, headed by an officer who would be responsible for com-
nunity forestry development activities in the Terai.
38.     The Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), working under the Read of the
Terai Community Forestry Project Unit, world be responsible for the over-
all development and administration of comunity forestry programs in seven
forest divisions in the eastern Terai. They would each be assisted by a
Community Forestry Officer (CFO), who would have received orientation
training in coomunity forestry. The CFO would be responsible for all
community fot-stry activities in a particular division and would be
assisted by five Community Rangers (CR) who would be responsible for
forestry extension and motivation, coordination of the stove program,
monitoring and evaluation, the control of community forest nurseries, and
the supervision of forest watchers, stove promoters, forest motivators and
stove installers.
39.    Part-time forest motivators would be employed under the project at
the village level and would be recruited either from among progressive
farmers or literate village panchayat members. They would operate under
the direction of CR. CFO or CR would train forest motivators in simple
communication and extension techniques, as well as provide a comprehensive
orientation concerning the project and its objectives at the divisional
level. Forest motivators would coordinate operations in village woodlot
establishment, private forestry, strip plantations and nursery production.
However, the main task of the forest motivator would be to promote the
farm forestry scheme under which 32 million seedlings would be planted
over the project period. He would explain to farmers the benefits to be
derived from establishing private plantations and would keep records of
individual plantings. He would visit farmers (individually or in groups)
at least once a month to discuss problems that may arise from project
implementation. If these cannot be solved satisfactorily they would be
referred to the CR or to the CFO. In addition, forest motivators would
carry out simple administrative activities such as monitoring survival
rates of trees, recording data from research trials at the village and



-13-
farm level, and providing a link between the CR and the village panchayat,
as wzell as the CR and the farmer.
40.     The procedures for establishing PF would be those set up under
CFDTP in the Hills.  Community forestry staff would work with a total of
220 village panchayats in the eastern Terai to prepare suitable programs
for forestry development. Village panchayats would establish panchayat
forest committees and, through these, would apply to DFO for the right to
areas to be demarcated as PF. A certificate establishing PF would be
awarded for those areas considered to be acceptable, once the village
panchayat and CFAD had signed an agreement outlining the responsibilities
of all parties. Forest management plans, establishing schedules for work,
forestry plantings, hiring of staff, and the agreed rules for the manage-
ment of forest resources would be issued by CFAD for each participating
panchayat. It would be the responsibility of the village panchayat to
enforce the agreed rules regarding access to and sharing of the produce
and to protect the plantings from theft, fire and other darage. For these
services, the village panchayat would receive assistance in establishing
nurseries, direct financial support and technical supervision for under-
taking forestry plantings. Before a village panchayat could receive
assistance under the project, it would be necessary for CFAD to issue an
agreed management plan. Under each scheme, it is expected that a nursery
would be established and project plantings of about 10 ha of PF
accomplished. Funds would be provided to construct houses for community
forestry staff working in the districts. Villagers and institutions such
as schools and hospitals would also be encouraged to plant trees on their
own land. The target would be to plant about 5,300 seedlings per year
per village panchayat. Strip plantations (2,550 ha on roadsides, canal
banks and river banks) and demonstration woodlots (2,200 ha on cleared
areas of degraded forest) would be planted by local labor, paid and super-
vised by community forestry staff. taintenance and protection would be
the joint responsibility of the village panchayats and CFAD until the
fourth year, when the plantations would be designated as PF, and operate
under PF rules. All seedlings would be provided by the Forest Department.
Seed required by the nurseries would be provided either by the DFO, who
would arrange for its collection, or from the CFAD seed store.
41.     Improvement of Nlatural Forests.  Forestry improvement would be
based on silvicultural management practices and implemented in the better
quality natural forest.  The target would be to begin operations on 1000
ha in each of the seven forestry divisions from the second project year
onwards reaching a total of 35,00 ha by project closing. A separate unit
for this operation would be set up under each DFO, consisting of an
Attached Officer, an Assistant Ranger and forest laborers.
42.     Agro-forestry.  A total of 5,900 ha of degraded forests would be
replanted.  Existing trees would be removed and the land allocated in 0.5



-14-
ha lots to landless families for cultivation. After one year of cultiva-
tion, the area would be planted with trees and intercropping permitted for
a further two years. Cultivators would be allocated 0.5 ha of newly
cleared land each year so that from the beginning of the third year
onwards they would be cultivating three separate 0.5 ha areas.  The forest
rotation would be on a 10-year harvesting cycle, after which intercropping
would again be permitted for three years. The agro-forestry plantation
component would be under the direction of the Conservators, whose circles
include the four Divisions involved. Plantation Officers would be
appointed in each of the four districts in which plantation blocks are to
be developed. The Plantation Officers would be responsible for land
_learing, nursery production, agro-forestry, tree planting, roads, fire
protection and vehicle maintenance, and would be assisted by teams of
Rangers, Assistant Rangers, Field Supervisors, Accountants and Clerks. An
agreement for cultivating the land would be entered into between the FD
and the cultivators. The format for this agreement would be forwarded to
IDA for approval by December 31, 1984 and used from May 31, 1985 onwards
(DCA, Section 3.11)).
43.     Stoves.  New stoves have been designed and tested in the Hills
under the First Project. These stoves require only half the amount of
fuel use~d by the traditional Nepalese stove and can be manufactured by
potters from local clay at a small cost (approximately NRs75 per stove).
Under tie project the Stove Improvement Unit (SIU) would arrange for tha
manufacture of 20,000 improved stoves, and for their distribution among
households in the project area. During the project period, emphasis would
be on testing, promotion and motivation, and a wide dissemination of the
stoves would be required. Since it would not be possible to sell the
stoves at this stage, no charge would be made during the project period.
Assuming that a demand had been created and a market developed, however, a
charge would be levied under any future stove distribution program. Funds
would be provided to purchase stoves from potters (who would be trained by
SIU employed experts) and to employ stove promoters and installers. Dis-
tribution would be arranged through the stove promoters, who would visit
villages, initially to set up demonstration stoves at points of greatest
impact (e.g. tea houses). This would be followed by a second visit, when
new stoves would be installed in houses selected to provide a demonstra-
tion to all castes and social classes. An understanding was reached with
the Borrower during negotiations that the Forest Department would estab-
lish procedures and selection criteria to ensure a fair and equitable
distribution of stoves in the project area.
44.     Research.  The project would provide funds for staff, vehicles,
buildings and operating expenses for expanding the research program of the
Forest Survey and Research Office in support of community forestry in the
Terai. Research on species and provenance trials, including bamboo cul-
ture, would be increased. Steps would be taken to meet project seed
requirements by establishing genetically improved seed stands and



-15-
orchards. Nursery methods would be designed to bptimize efficiency of
seedling production. Growth and yield studies appropriate to the project
would be carried out, particularly to enable quantification of production
from community forestry.
National Forestry Development Plant 
45.     The Covernment has recognized the need for an effective and con-
prebensive national forestry development plan. The plan would be expected
to give priority to community forestry development and reforestation in
Nepal. It would give priority to projects which would emphasize community
participation in the protection of existing forests and the development of
new forests and projects which would increase the availability of forest
products.  The plan would integrate the large number of externally aided
forestry development projects into a comprehensive development plan for
forestry in Nepal. During plan preparation, pricing policies for fuelvood
and tinber would be rev'ewed and proposals made for revision of prices
charged by the Timber Corporation of Nepal, to bring them into line with
the prevailing market prices. Policy guidelines would also be set for the
introduction of cheaper methods of reforestation, including the pos-
sibilities for leasing forests to firms and private individuals for tree
farming. About 15 man-months of consultancy services are included under
the project to assist the Planning Division of the 2!inistry of Forests and
Soil Conservation in preparing the proposed plan.
46.     Training.  The shortage of trained forestry staff is a constraint
limiting the rate of development of the forestry sector. !ianpower
requirements (including a 1OZ replacement of the existing staff) have been
estimated at 40 Forest Officers and 200 technicians (Assistant Rangers)
annually. To provide increased training facilities in Nepal, the con-
struction of the Pokhara campus of the Institute of Forestry and the
extension of the Institute of Forestry at Hetauda were supported under the
on-going CFDTP. Details for the long-term development of the infrastruc-
ture required at these two sites are now complete. The project would
finance the construction of offices, houses, teaching facilities, and
hostels. The designs for all these buildings have been approved by IDA.
Adequate teaching staff, equipment and vehicles have been provided under
CFDTP.
47.     A 2linistry of Forest Training Win- (C1FTt) has been set up under a
Chief Training Officer to provide practical in-service training in
forestry and soil and water conservation.  The operations would be
expanded to cover the needs of this project, and additional courses would
be offered on forestry in the Terai, reorientation, notivation and educa-
tion, plantation establishment and planning and management. NFTW would
also equip trainers at the forest divisional level with the necessary
instructions and course notes to enable them to train nursery workers,
forest motivators and stove promoters working in the divisions. The Dean



-16-
of the Institute of Forestry would be responsible for the organization and
management of the formal training conponent. The project would finance the
costs of training for 109 Assistant Rangers and 34 Forest Officers
required for the Project.
48.     Technical Assistance.  The concept of community forestry is new to
the Terai. Since trained forestry staff are scarce, the project would
require substantial amounts of technical assistance, not only to assist in
executing field planting programs, but also in helping with the training
and research programs. The following technical assistance provisions
have, therefore, been included in the project: (a) 195 man-months for the
community forestry development and stove programs; (b) 66 man-months for
agro-forestry plantations; (c) 12 man-months for natural forest improve-
ment; (d) 35 nan-months for training; (e) 12 man-months for research;
(f) 15 man-months for the preparation of the National Forestry Development
Plan; and (g) 5 nan-months for a mid-term review of progress in project
implementation.
49.     Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would provide funds to
strengthen the existing flonitoring and Evaluation UInit (lIEU) of CFAD by
adding a second tIEU Officer (Terai), assisted by a Statistical Tabulator
and a Forest Ranger for data collection. Funds would also be provided for
about eight manyears of local consultancy services to carry out surveys
designed by the Sociologist/Economist consultant employed under technical
assistance. The consultant would also assist in setting up systems for
project monitoring. The lIEU would, as it already does for CFDTP, suggest
improvements for project implementation, assess villagers' acceptance of
social forestry activities, determine tree survival rates of the community
forestry components and participate in the mid-term evaluation of the
project at the end of the third year of project implementation. The unit
would produce semi-annual progress reports, each July and January, in
phase with the fiscal year. The reports would give details of staff in
each field unit and at headquarters, a sumary of activities carried out
during the preceding six months, targets achieved, and problems
encountered during project implementation.
Cost and Financing
50.     The total cost is estimated at US$24.0 million equivalent, includ-
ing contingencies and taxes and duties. The cost estimates are updated to
June 1983 prices and include physical contingencies of 10% for construc-
tion costs and maintenance of buildings and roads and for fertilizers and
chemicals. Price contingencies are based on projected local cost infla-
tion of 9%, 8%, 7%, 6%, 6%, and 6Z for 1983/84 through 1988/89, respec-
tively, and on projected international inflation of 7.7X, 7.2%, 6.52, 62,
6%, and 6%, respectively, for the same years. The foreign exchange cost
is estimated at US$7.3 million or about 31% of total project cost. The
proposed IDA Credit of US$18.0 million would cover all the foreign



-17-
exchange cost and about US$iO.7 million equivalent of local costs, amount-
ing tu 81% of total project cost net of taxes and duties. The Government
would contribute about US$4.8 million equivalent, of which US$1.7 million
would be taxeq and duties. Farmers and villagers would contribute about
US$1.2 million i.n the form of agricultural inputs.  The cost of individual
consultant's services is based on US$1,000 per man-month for local con-
sultants and US$10,500 per man-month for expatriate consultants, including
benefits, overheads  and other associated costs.
51. Villagers *would narvest forest products for their own use under
the communal arrangtzments embodied in the forest management plans. There
would be little cash income from community forestry. Since abject poverty
is widespread in the project area, the population would not be able to pay
for services provided under the project. No cost recovery is therefore
proposed for community forestry components (private planting, strip plan-
tations, demonstration woodlots and panchayat forests). This is a jus-
tifiable policy given the benefits expected to accrue to the poorer sec-
tions of the population, and in the light of experience with similar
projects elsewhere, where it has proven difficult to arrange for an effi-
cient and cost effective method for collecting numerous small fees.
Procurement
52.     The construction of major civil works for training institutions at
Pokhara and Hetauda (estimated to cost a total of US$3.0 million) would be
procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines. The balance of construction under the project (US$1.4 mil-
lion) consists of minor works and buildings scattered throughout the
project area and would be carried out either by force account (US$0.3
million) or by local competitive bidding procedures (US$1.1 million)
satisfactory to the Association. Procurement of vehicles (US$1.7 million)
would be on the basis of international competitive bidding. Equipment and
goods in bidding packages valued at less than US$100,000 and aggregating
US$3.5 million would be procured by local competitive procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association. For procurement under International Competitive
Bidding, eligible domestic bidders would receive a 7.5% preference in bid
evaluation for civil works, and 15% or the import duty, whichever is
lower, for vehicles.
Disbursements and Audit
V         53.     Disbursement would be on the following basis:  (a) 1002 of foreign
expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for civil works (US$3.5 mil-
lion); (b) 85% of local expenditures for civil works carried out by force
account (US$0.3 million) (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment, furniture and vehicles and 100% of local expenditures
(exfactory cost) for locally manufactured goods and 75% of expenditures
for goods procured locally (US$4.0 million); (d) 100% of expenditures for



-18-
training (US$0.9 million); (e) 100% of expenditures for consultant serv-
ices including architects/engineers (US$2.3 million); (f) 50% (average)
of local expenditures for salaries and allowances for incremental staff
engaged in the project on a declining basis; 75% of expenditures in FY84,
85 and 86; 50Z in FY87 and 88, and 25% in FY89 (US$1.1 million); (g) 50%
of local expenditures for project operating costs (US$4.5 million); and
(h) unallocated (US$1.4 million). Disbursements under items (b), (f) and
(g) above would be made against statements of expenditures.
54.     Each ministry and university institute would establish and main-
tain separate accounts for the project and these accounts would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association. Cer-
tified copies of the financial statements would be sent to the Association
within six months of the closing of each fiscal year (DCA, Section 4.01).
Benefits and Risks
55.     Project production would include fuelwood, timber, poles, fodder,
fruit, and minor agricultural crops. Total production over the 40-year
project life would be: fuelwood, 6.4 million cubic meters (equivalent to
a present value of NRs136 million at financial prices); poles, I cubic
meter (NPs13 million); timber, 1.4 million cubic meters (NRs83 million);
fodder, 1.7 million metric tons (ITRs11 million); fruit, 0.3 million metric
(NRs193 million); and minor crops, 43,000 metric tons (NRs33 million). In
addition, the project would result in increased employment opportunities,
improved distribution of forest plantings, and increased accessibility to
fuelwood by the rural poor. The project afforestation program would have
the additional benefit of contributing towards arresting ongoing environr-
mental degradation, while the introduction of 20,000 improved stoves could
result in savings of about 5,000 metric tons (6,900 cubic neters) of
fuelwood annually over and above incremental annual production of 116,000
metric tons (160,000 cubic meters). By reducing the need for alternative
forms of imported energy, the project would have a positive impact on the
country's foreign exchange position. The project would have a positive
impact on the standard of living of panchayat residents. Those with some
land would benefit fror private plantations and from trees planted on
field boundaries. Under the forest management plans agreed by the
panchayat, residents, including the landless who suffer fron acute
shortages of fuelwood, would be entitled to a share of the available
fodder and fuelwood from panchayat forests, strip plantations and demon-
stration woodlots. They would also be permitted to collect headloads of
fuelwood and fodder resulting from the operations of the natural forest
improvement program and the agro-forestry plantation program.
56.     Over the six year project period 8,000 ha of largely unproductive
land, roadsides, and canal banks would be brought under production using
labor intensive nethods. In addition, labor would be erployed in replant-
ing degraded forest areas and in improving timber stands in existing



-19-
forest.  The estimated total of about 2.5 million mandays of employment
would largely benefit the disadvantaged and landless sections of the
community, which are the usual source of nanual labor. Landless families
and forest laborers would be permitted to grow crops as part of
agro-forestry techniques for forest establishrent. At full operation,
production in terms of foodgrains would be about 4,500 metric tons, enough
to satisfy the needs of about 5,600 families. The environmental benefits
of the project would include soil conservation, protection of rural water
supplies, micro-climatic improvements and restoration of soil fertility.
57.     The economic rate of return for the project is 27% (based on 84%
project costs). The Nepalese economy would realize net benefits from
project investments (at an opportunity cost of capital of 10%) of about
NRs 285 million. Economic rates of return for the individual components
are all above 19%. The project faces no major risks in terms of unsatis-
factory rate of return since the sensitivity analysis shows that large
changes would have to occur in costs or benefits before the project would
become economically non-viable. Large increases in costs or decreases in
benefits are not anticipated. Fisk levels for the individual project
components are also low.
58.     The project aims at fostering community involvenent in afforesta-
tion programs and forest protection, with the initiative for participation
coming from the panchayats. There is a risk that the number of village
panchayats willing to participate may not reach the targets set. However,
a survey of social attitudes, coneucted as part of project preparation,
clearly indicates the interest of individuals in forestry enterprises,
both of an individual and community nature. With the assistance and
experience of CFAD's Motivation and Education Unit and ITEU and a reorien-
tation of forestry staff towards the nethodology required for successful
implementation of community forestry programs the risks from apathy and
ignorance are considered to be low. Monitoring the progress of the
project, including the survival rates for seedlings planted on private
land, would be continuous, and the mid-termn review would enable the
project's goals and targets to be adjusted so that its impetus is main-
tained and its achievements are satisfactory.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
*            59.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Nepal and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



-20-
60.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Designation of a Project Coordinator would be an additional
condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 6.01 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
61.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONKENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
Presldent
Attachments
June 21, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-21-                                                             FIIiL
.6.v3U Umm  wlIr.wya v suiua
SrA stsus ". s".fol                                              . "    W-r
100aL213A.      60.3              iml ik   355a3       POT L    b      421Aa &acaume        &SIA 6  aurie
M r11 3AIA Ruls)                     3.6           .6   .in11                                        IN. 6.
I GY CIWl'.UtWTIM PLO CAPITA
[ IT        r.Lu Plr %T3LUI           6.5         56.3     39..              636.1                    16.1
v;urYrJ*W- MV %ALE?IM '              .nk      112116  i 10
Nma    NL         (rUCa.dT Or  T.  2.3 1                  5
1POPATIAUU PUOJCTIO02
30hll Uil  in CAN 2000 INILLIU                           .S.
i3KAMR  PeULDTIUM (NILIIOIU)                           5..
WAR lTIUalI uIL*TU  13  RAC                          13
M  IQ. a1.                        1.1        1.6      361.3              1.                      155.
III la. M. A6A6CUSNUML, LIAN    161.4       213.6   325.3                5.                     1H3.
UHAAI?W AM1 USUUCIW (PRACIIN)
.146 Va.                         3.1         63.6       1.S                 .                     3.
is-64 ins.                        51.6        11.       56.5               S.1                     1.
65 VS. MneADDS                     315         3.6       3.60                35                     1.1
IAW.                              10.         1.6       3.S                1.                      1.3
on"                               6.4         4.3       4.9                3.3                     3.0
e33  Di3PM RM    (PCX INOIIW)    63.16         45.5      MA.1                9.3                    31.1
05123  Allt  SATL (Pr. THOInAN     as. 5       23.1      36.6               13.3                     3.5
ClaSS mOmom UtOi OATF               2.1        32         3.0                 .6                     1.0
60 =3  AWU,:L (TN0Aim)             ..        53.6    366.6
aUm  (1C1  TF or11UCD Oi           ..         *.114    6w                 39.2                     S.1
;    t 130DUsl
Ml CAPITA 19661-11.0)          136.0       161.6      83.603.                                    3.
,d 1*111  3Ul^^Tl' OF|@                      AO.          .               ssz=
MWIT& &wPPY or
C*136411 (PFL3513 O
uwuhlD11k1)                    3.2         ".5       1WM/               -5.3                   16
fhT1K  (OeIA  Ka -lT)            50.6        56.5    4a.S                 1 6.3                   36.6
w 66S  AD=" AnS KLS             9.5         I. 01       4 .m            30.                     3-.9
cmai cans 1-6) IURIIL    ATL 361   1.6         23.3      35.6               36.3                     6.3
Lll1  1UPCTANT AT 3DIM  CTRAl1)   27.6         60.1        .2               51.3                    11.
IWINT NOiTA1P11 111 ( 31 1
bacus T  O     e Mtrle        
"M                                e.t 33.5            1.                  6.3                     51.
Aenu TO   Cn yan  tSWuL (MC
_wa                                ..        3*.6       6.6/1              1.9                    53.6
33AL                             613         5.0       61.0/V             13.1                    5.
WU1*1                              ..          ..       5..                1.                     16.5
81mm 10EM.t 05333.  .E11
llUEAll  El i4  SICII          238U.7      1360.61  3506.6116            3297.8                 U8 .?
hEal.o;^    P$l;Pga                ..      .Y. 131..7                 *"..                      6.6
1CINLATLM K PEE HIY ICI*M       1266.3       51230.I  13136.&A            4226.6                  "566.
PUAI.iA 110N Kg MOUIAL 1111
sorA6                                      6626.6   63190.5/2            56L6.                  1o101.
tza                             S6.3        323.1     3 i.@/j            3L.)                    651.6
CAL                                ..          ..        ..             561.                    2591.6
ItISSIl   MM IOPITAL 3..                         ..        ..                 ..                      .6
SIE      UUUOL
-%rFA:t slzg OF DMU
TWAL                               ..         .5         ..                 ...
13513                             5.6          ..        .....
SISAL                              ..          *.        ..                 *-                      *
%UiACE I PUmE tI FLP%NS Kra BOOM
TUTAL                            ..            ..        ..                 ..
SIAN                      5.          ..        .                   ..
sTL                                ..          ..        ....*
8CCt15 To EUXClTCITt 1I!McElrM
OF IN.L.Ib~J
TUIAL                              ..          ..        ..
ISlM                             20.1          ..        ..                 ..
IEL                                ..          ..        ..                 ..
VROAh                      30:;~~



-22-
TAM U5a
MVC - SoCWI  oUZCATM3 OA  OM
- WST PF'W 33n1137
316? -RIX           WV IutI             VIUL   ic=
at l Da mflo b              b * n                        ua Fnc
MlwmBr      IU1aL               I1         26.0      '6.               3.4                      I.
NU,                 1t.#       43.      12.0               K.0                     we.8
731*1.                           ,I I.0  43.0              83.8                   3.1
lUSmilNl   lOYAL                 6.0        1.O      1.0               1.0                     3.6
MILK                U.I        16D       50.0              62.6                    "A.
VAR"15                I         3.0       0.0              U.3                    26.1
UGZaA  13. CZ Or 13Ce)  0.2                   2.4      16..               1.                   =2.
-   ~       ~      ~       L           *- 4710                                          v
13313                           254         21.7     13.3/.            27.1                    25.
SWONOW                          3.0                   PA=4.            18.2                    21.
am. 1133 am  Cn11,                  8         14.3     1en                3t                     12.1
MOONcias mm nousev
1011*10                          0.1        0.41       ..               1                       3.3
SAM  UCIU PU 10D0S5-
POPA:a                           20/i       4.6      17.5              21.4                   216.5
TV 1DZCK1&a      D  DS
.          ..        ..               2.3                    7.6
UaX  es313*1.
I CI2CULiZC  1
10MA   POPCL&710                   0.7    O     A       7.2,5             MA53 SL7
CZL A    ..I.. AXZ3WIM  KR CAin. ..             ..       ..               3.8                     .aa
V         J          4031       553.6   69.9                     .
mix=  (uCKr S)                  4O.S       292        9.1              23.5
KRICPL7K   (CKS                  5.         96.0     92.0              10.0                    3.2
101?(133013?                 2.0        2.0       2.0               MO.                   37.
zoKA                              51.8       43.3     47.6               40.0                    3165
NabL                                          26.4 F1.  D...
131*15                   ~~~~~~42.8  23.6     37.3                2.3                   26.6
gCg  DsC~ US10                       0.8        0.3    LO                   LO                     3L1
13           m 20   C    ar _.    ..          -4i .
Lem= 20 1125 U 11SUO              ..          ..      4.. .
rMg 40 cm   = or ..        3      ..                    a ..  . e
13?L COSS PM can")
13an"                             _.          ..      .0                2.                    136.7
UM3? CUSS MR CAPITA) 
L                                 ..          ..       .0               1.                    16.9
M=  YAWSL 1311? (ELM=)
LCUa3                             ..          ..     5.f.                ..                    364
03.                               ..          ..     S.tr              53.7                    6
..  M   valable
sThe gTop avers$em for Oehb .itde.or ant         a                 tbctc men". Coverag   f 
amog the i. JCetcera depq_ an mvllabIlitcy of data _1 So _   _t To.
lb  0.1c  Ohera.oted, data ftr 19.0  rv to .w yea betas,. 1359   - 1961; for 1970t begu.n 19s9
and 1971; and for moet Pee.nt         bets,. 1975 em  1961
1'J. *1 12 * euwual~ S- ter  : -. 's C_e            wr     prsIu         . I. 391.
sf 15.6. ,s  1925. /b  lersomrel is gavetWwL gevicgs 6017. Ls  14-  b  3.
gopimlet. ~W i2



-23-                                                     ~~~~~~Annex 1
mosst   a%..& at. dssts, s    &ft.  .i-wss 2~sws3viy J.4    ii -ft 8miirk-Lseb a" islist. Ii oftS  "Ws be 105. noit "WY SW~ " h  Isis.-
S....IF, ,s.sihl      hs..s     a. hiseb*1.   ...sisdsl-d 6isii.iis.  s.d      pe ss..us11  hi diirsrsse  i1 . is  .ll-tipa L. isi..- W. iss -t.
ihlss  sS..! Ws i.. fib. sut  .i M.sIia . 1s4!ALAs ts.s.  ". thivs.isil. i-ils Ss-df[                                 . itiis10hriipiu
ftiLstsis- gas   '  (I)ch Eli        s10.  V.-a, if Eli ithsi i.-f?  ".  a)! 5 ~sst 5551   LE%   "i-dsi hid..  sirsi is                 ibs. thi -sm", -
.1f ib.  Ajutz  sis   (sPtu  1 5,    EAS- I10510   GU1 bSsp,...  su-P 1,  31d!. Zstss~ R.Mb Stils sd N044I. f1t.L  Is  bhi  hsts.n, 51 sti..g
os.is,-kasi.i  FiilIs . E  a.i vss-s  msw dss t.  -iiis                        pipa-l-s  .isksd st.i( Ii    - isv-   IS-s ssi   sdg..        ilis  s1s,t
-jIv Si r. Lssastul.  s.  Limess h-s dsts i.. Last WLetsssr. its. dws C-"W .1 Lstvl.  uss  . I10sIusr do-bs. M - rh.                          &UC s.5!iti    4.1si
L. is      issa   . iicsi-i hs  . .ssttS.d is vstuis   sss,"  if sss Isdig"s  i C.uth I.  Ti    -Mmps5 -   wayW .55.1. A '-svPIss rh. saw.1  S
-  i&-- is    s   "_  ss.    ah bisi,w 5.  vs.ssi W-W..
ML (rhs..d stq.Is.                                                                         IIIis   vIiSi!              - Isi!   is.         sr!-Ps!i   ("".t.
T5s      isiss5.  s'  tstiSs       5*4 -55   s.d !i1   iss   ii ss   .                     s.d i5ttI dsUd h ;559.  bsp,i.              i5       .h!ld
ff"Lowtl-  sis.s si    islss  sess -a. iswsrsviy Wv mrit!y                         s1.b%.hl  is P101k s1  prIsOt. M...! La   d .PsIstisd bspiita sid vs-
lIn        WM.. fstss. -CbC es  kiich5  1.4.  t is It. E"&-. Lion d.C..                 hihiltsLis. i-i-s.  Isiplisi  -s  .st*t!s5.,  ps.ini    staff"i
byi-L isss     wahskI..-  3INtbthU-.   Ps.siis  pv"-.Uwlr sits-
cwM  cWI?A (1 3 - cw  psi CopSi .swxs.s st Smers "mit pI-&-. ts!-                          M"s isrs sL. Mt IsIsis. hisr  h-itpls!. hisus. 5*1.4. uetch
Lus-Lso by      -.tg   -M    - U.uid u.* AiLss (113-s  hiS!.)! 1100.                       s.d s."&-i C-s"iss.     v -r u-  ay, se5sdra by shs.    (hcs    csi ft  .
ditIss s" piss        U.""dis  rose -C   i.sLa twulllim.  Isv iSsUe-
s.d  iwisp  pisis.  Wss,I . s.d hpk.-. sis,  w1.is..  siss                              -.  --.L hipisis. Isis!- si iis wpita. s           -.i( fss  -(wts.uity
sit11:) S. hiss's..  Ct Ls"!  qisestIss  wi i.qpZs 1100. 1910. .010I is"us.  pitlaliss  bispliIs ses I-I""is  55!, (dwi9t ii.
isis.                                                                                                            E"iis   s  Ssis   1  - isis  ssam .1 sa."sl     s  it.   disths.si
isi  bi-SisI  diLiS&w hy Lb.  .&-  Ei  i.".
POPOUim amWThL rAsrICS
Isis  V   iits. ii-Ti~  itiss.s) -Si    t ii  5; 1950. 1910. (w LOO0      man"20
Ousis                                                                                  As--.s  Si. st ft.h.1                                       Mris    ilui     ss.uh..54,i!
3.siFi.sis  Ci.,.... if iii.!.b- Ws!  ishsi  ss tsts               tstt-ssi               Ai..sW."   Iuus  ofs .        p.   isisi.si t    bhsi 111ft        suts
dlUs,.s   islI1..t  ,s I        i. .  p   g-.i i.sP.tshUts  .1 ii                        is  LI-1   M.i 10-5.. A Wsidi -  Isds., -iss.     b.  1*. .4i
_.asmixls.: 1950. 1920. ssd too0 iss.                                                 ch. U ..hAsmi isc stismicis  P-pus..
ispils.Its  Piilitilss.-. *i-s -s .t `si..wr  -s  - zsis!  -ihs.. -w iws! - sssp,sss.
,si-sgis  ii its  200  - e-sss  WWLssiis  prjityts  55  -  1,160                        Is .51     - piv  Ps     S..i sAI sii. s.d i..   -MPeS"  si.is
is"" P!.sLt5- by M - s   -   -ad ilsi, ssisaliv s.d fsMIUil   isis.                   ows.flig. ..si.is.y.  huh.5.p  ils. s-Psimss  t.iv.ts,s (
Psisigisi Psithis f- usv  m-lit sus . issU     St thi.  Is.!  ss-s-                        55Stts.
t., it"s 1W55-.  -  buSh  i              &siis.%t -i.ur7.p,ss!iiii..- -W&-                       iivkitr- (isi, sit MMdiU is)-iss!  ih. (w isis  -
M,.!  A. fin!. hIsf siptsscy Cish!isi   ti 21.3 puss. Th. P-s-                        Cs.iiS.Is~U             si   IsiiSyi  hiStig 91065. -s Put.tCss
f-istuk  issd...z is  --..  1...  s.d p-i is!,y PLius Pitfs-s..
ISil   ...is  is- th.. .(   d is  -t cu-s .ls  c1sbiisss St swtshS,               USIsTli
liissvs.ii.-    .    siss,p..ii   h.. - l-5ish-si-s7                            Pitins .,hi     is.11..I-        Ii!    C- Cs  -ist. 10.  " in!.4
et.i bLst  isi  L. q..!L is ili 410th -s. s.d sis. ihi  0iisS   s                        .siils.t i  at! .~   Wi Lb. PrSsi  I..  Ms y .smcsop St ,            tIis
-101  i-5s.-i. This I 55115.1-sdI  siyts,   5*   isisCY       s.!t . isd2-    .h.1sg WIsis7isiEss.9                    : 5.51"I1  I-lIds, thud,. isd we-U
ii.      v-Iis-s  i.-U 555-It!         iSsi!s.s. liss!.  its..C                               ig.. sig -s_-asiss 4 .iis. "s,iU..iMissy susd  5    -u
.s!siS  s  t   bUSs      I-I. p.sJiiiii sls.iisi. SL  ili ,iiisis.csisns   p511 sissss hi!s.r 1055th.sslks. Mr    .WIgopL
h. th. vs.. 2000. -5  thi sgs, sf dull-s. St s,iiity iii, is mii5,-                    S=     "si sii. -iIs    L. -S  in. - Cs-ucii -. b.-...   S
Y   sisi.~ iisicis. isvisih   ~ssv    .tsii.sslps.P.2-2Js                 P-la.. IW-.Ai.    siis.u. s  isshi,i,= -       i   2-sut-LSs.-  ivwU.
its. siLl hi isitid.m!  .1 12 is 1? 7ssrist ss.  isiipid.   cs.sLui sis ussr.!
- 5's7i5  i-Is551- li-  k455   tii           (100  isLLsisi) .!           V-1-5s. sisiIsis  (sit.   Et.sts    - VitsgE.5l kS.u.S-!.
em"s sti: 1IN0. 1920 5  1529 isis.                                                    Isils.  hi"lls. l.asos"rs. - Sb. prsffin sIgh  pswists.145
Fit sq. h. ss      t.1I.s  L" - Ci-iiid .5 *       i-   isisli I d!1.                    WMsU     s  dupistesis St is.uis.y      ssttIstis..
wi,  15. 1515 ,:   1575 sisL-                                                      iii.ssh itis - isv. s. s.sds    T-tsis  .isiit. -.3.US  is
IP-l,s.i   gi1s.  iiis)- thUlds. (0-4 pusrs). .55.555-p ft!)-                             pvi-iy s.d iiissdi        - 151451"4.4 by  As5s's if issihis Es ih
it  sLsI. s.5 uItis. iE" Isss -a -sr) s. puits.tsw  S .94-p.s  iPsW-                   l.....P..di   Is....
L-RE-: 190. 190.Le  .    1-a   dis.                                                      ii  is,, ii  (isss) -                          Cio.l.ts(tI  -s  -d -S  sil.)
rp"i    Cssi Is,. f-rcsscl - isis! - Ass-   usih  tsis .  tisis! mid-                -sputip   f  ss  Ssbai sp.!.!..- ft" 15 110, 54                  -
iss  Ppi ti- iv 11)-1. 1150-20. -5. 150-is.
isultf.Ct.t   i.(s n    - sihi  - A-.& itsib is.. St sihi  Wp-i-
1stL.. fit 19-40. 110l.        191040o.                                                siivC,  i.tu.disiis!-Fs.wvss                                    s.is
cashw uIrh ft'. Cis .t..i..d) - A--& 11.. lush  is. thuii    .1 iid..pu                   5ssis-15  iS.                     t     sUb5.si5    iii  m
Ssii!Si Lss: 191. 1I70.    Ina110  his.                                                 sitiis.7  hiss
Ciii. 0D.s.  am. (si iissd  - A-sI. 4sb.i  Psi uLi-assds E  di..                         t45 Is.-t           (is. th    iissrss   ALL typi  si i-s..,  Ii isi.
Lsisa.   S". LIM0. 5  11  isi.                                                    b.sit.is i-  wsl& Maw!i P-r b            s .1 sWWItS.; isi"du  1
C=ss hiid.ii- Ii. - Ass.ss.&- v    4.1  dss,.S s               .11! hisr. isLA---"" s.Iti  is  - vcLI   S  i 1s.is A   isSistisl  si ii1.
li -s. ssr swiiis.Psils  if sh   sp.si. .PI -p.s.ss srluiiil  I-                         iCsis    is  ft-L.t isi. is,         Ww   -Fiisftts.i hi s..61. sip-.
tIli,it.;  s..!,I ts-li.  ".Zgg  sss is 19160. 190. s.d 19110.                      Wissil. htbsd   s.s-
Fs.1, lmsi    Assus,i Sm   (hisid.  -is.!    si  t stiisi     TVi-it,  (Iv  his5 iisstL.)- TV ri.s,.                         ..v h smcss  is
.5 hii..sts di-sii,  .pt.ii.im=ssl=iii                                                              &=. si.!p05  Is. th-   wp"isiis.   iSi,- s"Its""TV iibi
isir iIS.. - Fi.Cus,i .sid    .   Pisisiss  .1 .iisii  isirs   s.d 1 7s.i                                                 ,sIiiii  iTSs- -K2  *-l-iis.V
55105sfi5Ud-h Pils    I.   W-)-0      -%- -s  bimii-s.stil. isilt.,.             iius   !-s5.(s   hi,   Pssi.t  Is    - SI.. ih. ss,w- .!r-
.5 ml   s         Is sinss   wip...ss.0                                                    =       .    difS_-.L mstsissi  s.uiilS. 4.11-d4 -ss pIs.idkis
am IITIZIIs.                                                 is hi dsllf El ii~-4        L-sL 51 5s..t f    ii-s. ..    iSI.d-
554.. hi  iidi.!. s., risif     I  n!5-71u10  - Is-s ts  swciSs is...             Cii-  i-is! atiid.s -   sIC. is  i.    I- hd isS. .b-s .1
Psihisis  ii 51  is.   sils.Iurs-                 -L.s . ssi  ii  s.d is.d -S           tights  s.    i -    ilslq   ,sS    ilds W.5Es.s is diii.-!. 
is 10 taLas- lii  hs.. C-diris            -   owl m, S5.A. (..g.  mis..sLs               S  i-. OsIt..
510sd si -M-.) .11th si .bth. siS isisist -.IEt. (..a.  ifts- s.d
10tsi  s55   Pud.it wlii ss55hii; 1905.45. 1920. s.d 11W ists.                   TiMT1 .5    isis  (ihiusid) - SC.. mtslY  CrIft wv-s. 2101.45.1
is,tus. i irofC.liis  (sis.ii  s.qsis..) - Qwwid ii.                                 si       - is s.. I . .pisdhsii!is    issi.. scsiss.. it..
ssr'sisim.1.i  s   .Lsis.s5 -s  mu, pat cspts                                   ..vs  inplti. it .1  isms. DRUIEIt-  hi 5it10 _in&-  st
psi di.   ss1.   .whISi Cii.  dis 1.si    s.tl. lspiu i..                        is         ispssh   1150. 1970 s-A low iosis
sWi. sd isis. i  .551.Psii-Iis  -It.  -1-5  iS.  -ids.                                          VWj~5        -I. 1.6ii ht. -  W_--.si. si i.is  Isb- isisLs
9-m~tilE- s.d is isd prisgg  sdI..  s  Eigs! Is-Isqitis-rnsvis.lhsi. (Wrssit) - Ccb- is.,. is isuis. isustii. lissc55. s.
mi  i, s.l.isd by 110 hssd -i phyft-aslisi su," is. isIs.   it-                        lIsi-ss1 PsLmtsw if isis! 5v isis; 1to0. 191 s.  1160 isis.
slrsdh.sLt  inlsviss is.irs ts!a s.ssi.  sd  -Isi...  W                             5siii.Y (v-vii)-  tshs  fist  S,  iis t.si.               -mfi.-ui
A,.        usihsl.  .1 psplscfti- S.Is                                         10 pis-st is. s-wt  E                   s.d .1s.uiisty. s.,s  sd  .S.   P_issci.  St iis  Lihi Iis;
~h-!d 1-.1....456. 1970 s.d 1971 ists.                                                    1140. 1910 Sd 1100 di.
P- i.pIt. ..s, sv..s   s..  ssir  - i,-uii.S.isttpsi -05-                               i.iitsti ii  (siis) - iss . 10. s.d f-Is - itSs                          t
-t ipL, .1 I14 ps. d"T. Psi ispi!  ..l isid is dsiisd s. s-i.  hi-                     s.uiuuy  sis- Si-  -"."s s. issM  101.. s.d li-  is I  fit..
qiluisi  isi sit  -=sii&- ssi*llsd %y CM   -" pii          - i. ssi                      wsus.iis  St iiic. isi. sd Ii-!  Papistis" of -it sws ,s.pitis171.
sis-si  if 55 g.m si i-is  P-&.t   pa. dip sd 10 s'n  Ei iii..   5d                     19. 190. s.d 1910 dii.  Ihisi sis  isi           11. liO    lsiuispstis isi
Psi. pisisi. -C hIgh 1t Mr    slil hi s.s.Is  pstils.   bi.- sis.d-                     vsilst155 10.-s..             -Cts   St hi pospsilss. s.d Issi tii.  i  a.d
WIhid FssdSsii; 19014.17  .   W   si.                                                    uI.ii!Ii.i,.
Child (.-              ..)..fh si  (svis.!- Ai-i disihi is  tInSM ts.vwsi   rs.lii   ht   .ti   .  hi") - hisl.i  by vigli*
"P5 wisi  is. 7--. is cht,is- thi qv 355* i.  5-i ssst             51. 55555            3  iit . r!iIh- 20 liu5S. iis   0    sst.SC-si  5                         Ci
ii!.. dsts 4-.M11  irs  LIEi ishls: 1960. '970 s.d 1110 iis.                            sih1     !i
~Z  isitssilsi  litS(sits)- "Ps5  s.*s. .1 7-i  if ILt. - s  -IMMi si ..sii. -Us.  s. sp.is  is.ss   St psw"y~1..s
Silithism 10. 1110 iii 1110 dits.                                                      ssfi %1..4 hi istsiissiii 10th is..d.vsh!s Lssi s..
Isi.    htlt   s.(i iiii)-S..  ssh   iii...i   TV51                                      3.it-d thulIs ssi    i   i.  0$ivit.     fs  i  i.  -
M! Ps P.,       iXs   II;  10   90.   10   i.                                           41t p.iyl               li!i ilsi isiss.P s]isi IsIs.  .0t      SiSs.
A-t. . i   s.lis     sst.   s.si.   ..    sisi. S  isis 1-Iss-                              5,iss!   diqswts 41st Pt-i is.tls! is-Is.   -WIR.itOsss 1-sst
isiL. -Ch 10 iht us. piisui  hiishil. iptiss. s10 is.iisp  101!) .5                      -s   isIs!. Puirt  IsCs.  s. s          m-S.  sd s  siss  iVW C-IC's
s.i.iw.  s  if iI".  iipit. L    psi-s- sit....  Is.  i-Is.- su  5 paIls.                "i--I i-    S t h   mu.Y   hi.. 1..  .! is          l 9.tid      .2ih  -tsL
is.-C.i.     s. hgt-  I-its ts.t  s  ts. no i    hiss.. I  is.! my  .                  I-IELs wis..iisiis    f-5 bhsisi Lstiit Isis&  . Isiu   (sLtss)   iI
--s.bs.h  s.i  i!   tpy thi ihi b-ds.f  - Si              i if Lhi h-s..Idi             s.9-.0--isisillltii(ss  S   -t.&) 54ssIsii
is -t bsw s t. Pid s 4iipv.usiuc.uifwt Psc  th . isi  I. istcufs  U.
f-i,.. 1ss- Isud.
hi... iShi-IsLs Dl-I.! (s.i. St s...srisI - iss    s -A S  is.I
En5s  V-PI-, (isis. W%-s. -S  isis!  ss.4. BY -.is dhWs.i  -
pasm.siil!  sisisti. iM-!ii-..  Susis d"sisis  -F 11015
ili .Ustis.S iip.1L. A W55 vita1-. Lsms. St bsmsi-n
Ss-m-ss, by s.is-his.t qpsi-.w U.i iss . Pit psisis s.d sto-s
powdist-       ; P - tiP pi-tiss di"i d" by Insvst    V..stitslsswi n                                 is!1  I.   1.
Ga. Iii.4  utPssst s.  -  Fes        sts.    disidid hi- Inms. S  ps.isht am                                                               10
-weft S    i!                ..siiiiUd    tsuclis 



-24-
ANPIXs I
rose 4
ECONOIC  NDICATRS - WEPAL
MP PU CA1ITA IN 1981.:  US$156
CGOSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN l980                                         ANNUAL ItATE OF CROUm. I6-1979
(Z. constant price")
USS lPn.      K
GDP *t Market Price                 IMF-    100.0                                     3.1
Gromse Dowetic Investment             268       13.5
crove Donstic Savnt                  148         7.4
Curnt Aecoue t Dalauce (eec.
official grants)                     -72       -3.6
Exports of Goods, WS                  24l       12.1
Imports of Goode, WPS                 361       18.1
OUTPUT. LAWR PORCE AND PROIGCTrIY    IN 1979110
Value Added
Value Added             labor Freal,            Pr worker
as5 mine      Z            WMn.       Z                uS$
Agricultura                         1.065       57              6.9      93               155
lndwstry                              251       14              0.1       2             1,696
services                              543       29              0.4       5             1,461
rotal/Averaga                  1,859      100              7.4     100               251
GOVERNMENT PINANCE
Ru. NJA.
Z of GDP
1976179      1979180       1980/81      1981/12       1979/80
Current Rec-ipt.                     1,791.6      1,652.9       2,403.9      2,900.9         8.9
Current ExpnDditure.                   902.1      1.055.4       1,263.6      1,583.9         4.9
Current Surple                         a or.5!       791.       1,140.3      1,312.0         4.D
Capital Expenditure                  1,961.5      2,293.2       2.726.1      4.032.9        12.4
Extenacl A sictatce (Net)              989.4      1,317.t       1.531.1      2,024.0         6.2
DONE!. CREDIT AND PRICES
1978     1979     1980      1981        1982
-  d--April
CMiliUon Is outstandian mid-July)
money and Quaal Money                             3.772    4.512    5.285    6.303          7.332
Bank Credit to Govern_et                             966    1.129    1.258    1.263         1.785
lank Credat to Public Kuterprime                    869    1,060    1,231    1.401          1.292
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     1.072    1.332    1.917    2.49R          2,641
Money and Qua Ml oney as Z of CDP                   19.3     21.1     22.1      22.2
CGmeral Price Index (1974/75 - 100)               113.3    117.3    126.7    145.9          159.6 (April)
Annual Percentag Changes in:
cGneral Price Index                                 11.2      3.5      9.3      13.4          9.2 (April on April)
Dank Credit to Government                          28.9      16.9     11.4       0.4         42.4
Bank Credit to Public Enterprie                     70.1     24.3      4.7     23.9           3.5
Bank Credlt to Private Sector                       24.1     24.3     43.9      30.3         10.2       -
Note: All converslon. to US dollare in this table are at the average exchange rate pravailing during the perlod
covered.
a/ rotal labor force; unamployed are allocated to sector of their no-:_1 occupation.
not avilable



-25-
AM=K I
MMA PATIENT AM1 CAPTL Pnows
NUALAC OF IPATIENT                                                      IIOIAWISK UPOXT  1,60,11 a/       08   l. 
u  or rsrsaxs                                  >lsc  ms 1"0{ !1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uz$ va.   z
197879   1979/80   1910/Il
Eprt., f.o.b. b/                   106.5      95.1      134.4           Agrcultural product.               100.7     75.1
Xeperts, C.i.f. 'if                244.7     294.3      370.2           N.factuwes                         33.4      24.9
Trade Balaw-e                 133.2    -199.2    -235.8                Total                          134.1    100.0
Services. Mt                        65.6      91.6       93.1
of Vhbch:  Tourl_                 41.8      54.0       64.5          MKTRAL OM. DUZE_ 31. 1980
IS$ Qn.
Tranfer. net                        30.1      36.1
of which: Privgte Emit.           25.5      29.6       40.4           Publc Debt, Inc. getuted              233.9
1ndia  ti!. F..         3.0        3.1       6.6      I      on-Curantee  Private Debt              I
Currnt Accout Balsca          -39.7     -71.7      -9.4            Total Outstanding * Dieburmed         233.9
Official CtGant                     42.9      63.2       71.7
Official Capital, nt                36.0      48.1       52.3
Private Capital, not                 9.7     -37.4      -11.9          DaS S ICE RATIO for 1950/81 cl
-46.9      -2.2     -16.2            Public Debt. inc. garnteed           1.9
Cro Reaerve (dd-July)              179.8     157.0      192.5
Net Reserva                        151.0     153.2      174.9           .3D/1DA  EDi.  LMarch. 1983) (Kil on SSV
bISD      iDn
uel and Related Haterials
eports of uhilh: Petroleum       16.7      30.2        N.            Otetaetn  4 Diabured                        1.59.6
Ewrtu of uhlch: Petrolem           -         -                                  U rd _                            185.8
Owtstanding. Sel. uSnebwre      345.4
RA Tr O CRING
From October 1975             Fro Narch 20, 1978
thh lI reh20. 1ss         t h  S         e! 19, 1911            Bw  Em       r19 1961             Since Decamber 17 1962
~itssl.oo - NA3iiss5.oo -     iw.oo    BsSl.oe  -  j3.zl00                                            51.00 -  e14.
Ha 1.00 - US$ 0.06            M 1.00 - U$ 0.083                      M 1.00 - 058 0.076               1R 1.00 - OISS 0.070
Customs  ulec.
/ Payot bais.
e At RtiO of Debt Servie to   peorts of Coode an Non-yactor Srlce.
noc applicable
South Asis Progres Departmenc
march. 1983



ANNEX II
--26-                      Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983) /a
US$ million
(net of cancellations)
No.   Year       Borrower             Purpose                   IDA    Undisbursed
Eight credits fully disbursed                                   71.3
470   1974  Kingdom of Nepal Water Supply and Sewerage        11.8        1.5
617  1976  Kingdom of Nepal Rural Development                  8.0        2.1
659   1976  Kingdom of Nepal Technical Assistance               3.0      0.2
704   1977  Kingdom of Nepal Second Water Supply & Sewerage  8.0          2.6
705   1977  Kingdom of Nepal Industrial Dev. Corporation        4.0       1.0
730  1977  Kingdom of Nepal Second Highway                     17.0       3.5
772   1978   Kingdom of Nepal Technical Education              5.7       3.4
799   1978  Kingdom of Nepal Telecommunications III           14.5       11.2
812  1978   Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Sunsari-Noraug)     30.0      19.6
856   1978  Kingdom of Nepal Irrigation (Narayani Zone)        14.0       9.1
939  1979   Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural Developmet          11.0     10.5
1008  1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Community Forestry               17.0      16.1
1055   1980  Kingdom of Nepal Irrigation (abhakali)            16.0      15.0
1059   1980  Kingdom of Nepal Third Water Supply & Sewerage   27.0       19.6
1062/c 1980  Kingdom of Nepal Grain Storage                     6.2       4.9
10937c 1981  Kingdom of Nepal Irrigation (Babai)                3.5       0.8
1100/c 1981  Kingdom of Nepal Agricultural Extension & Res.  17.5         9.5
iloiT7  1981  Kingdom of Nepal   UIl Food Production            8.0        5.3
1191/c 1982  Kingdom of Nepal Cottage & Small Industries        6.5       6.0
1198/c 1982  Kingdom of Nepal Second Education                 14.3      13.4
12607T? 1982  Kingdom of Nepal Petroleum Exploration Promotion 9.2        8.5
13167T 1983  Kingdom of Nepal Irrigation VII-Bhairawa-Lumbini 16.0       16.0
1339c 1983  Kingdom of Nepal Cash Crop Development Project   6.0          6.0
Total,                                           345.5    185.8
of which has been repaid                         0.1
Total now outstanding /b                         345.4
Total now held by IDA                            345.4
Total Undisbursed                                           185.8
/a No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.
7T IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and
Disbursed amounts shown in US dollar equivalent at the rate of exchange
for the SDR on March 31, 1983.



-27-                        ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of narcb 31, 1983)
Amount ($ millions)
Year    Obligor          Type of Business      Loa _     quLty      Ttal
1975   Soaltee Hotel     Hotel                  2.7       0.4        3.1
(Pvt) Ltd.
1982   Nepal Orind       Mine and process       5.9        -         5.9
Magnesite       magnesite ore
(Private)
Limited                                8.6       0.4       9.0
Total commitments now held by IFC        8.2       0.4       8.6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 470 Water Supply and Sewerage Project $11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The credit is about 90Z disbursed. Delays continue with the execu-
tion of the sewerage component, but the Water Supply and Sewerage Board
(WSSB) is making every effort to comission the system. The main contractor
responsible for the execution of the work is struggling to complete minor
works such as manholes, sever cleaning and road restoration; the WSSB is now
executing the latter by force account. The sewerage system, however, is 95Z
complete and trunk severs, pumping station and treatment plant are ready to
go into operation. Apart from some minor works, the water supply component
is completed.
Credit No. 617 Rural Development Project; $8.0 million Credit of April 30,
1976; Effective Date: July 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
With the appointment of a new project coordinator during early 1982,
overall management and supervision of the project improved substantially.
However, delays in the release of HMG funds prevented timely implementation
of the 1982-83 work program. Project completion and credit closing dates
have been extended to July 31 and December 31, 1983, respectively, by which
time all ongoing project activities will have been completed and about 90
percent of the IDA credit will have been disbursed. With UNDP funds a second
phase of the project is now being prepared.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems which
are being encountered and the action being taken. They should be used
in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport to present
a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-28-                       ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 659 Technical Assistance Project $3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The Marsyangdi Technical Review Panel is the one subproject that is
ongoing and is proceeding satisfactorily. Fourteen of the subprojects
financed under the technical assistance credit have been completed and are
contributing to the pipeline of bankable projects in Nepal.
Credit No. 704 Second Water Supply and Seuerage Project; $8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date: February 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The credit is about 70% disbursed. The sever work is about 55Z
completed. All the sewer pipes, however, have been manufactured and paid for
by WSSB. Performance of the contractor of this component has been very
unsatisfactory. WSSB is nov considering whether to complete the works by its
own hand, by a recognized public contractor or through a rebid. The WSSB is
reviewing the situation to decide which is the more expeditious way to
proceed and will commumicate proposals to the Bank.
Work on the water supply components is proceeding satisfactorily.
The orders for pressure pipes have now been fulfil'led. Some minor problems
incurred in the installation of the pumping equipment in the secondary towns
are gradually being overcome. The delays in executing Credits 470 and 704
involve extended consultant services for construction supervision.
Credit No. 705 Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project; $4.0
milon Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date: Fe a   17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Since March 31, 1982 (latest date of subloan authorization) NIDC has
fully committed the $4.0 million Credit. Close supervision is being carried
out to ensure further improvements in NIDC's operations and implementation of
subprojects and disbursements under the Credit within the closing date. An
appraisal of a second Credit to NIDC is planned for August 1983 under a
proposed Industrial Development Project.
Credit No. 730 Second Highway Project; $17.0 million Credit of October 19,
1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984a
The project is now moving steadily towards a successful conclusion,
though there remain several areas where improved performance is required.
Procurement, which has been a source of considerable delay in the past, is
now virtually complete. The work on the Thankot-Naubise road pavement has
now been completed. Much supervisory attention is currently being given to
the Tulsipur feeder road in an effort to improve performance on a few con-
tracts. Disbursements, which currently stand at 75Z of appraisal estimates,
are expected to improve substantially over the next year since the major
project component has been completed.



ANNEX II
-29-                         Page 4
Credit No. 772  Technical Education Project; $5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project, which provides new facilities for technician training at
the Institute of Engineering in Kathmandi, will be completed by June 1983.
Good progress has been made with equipment procurement, furniture procurement
and part of the civil works.
There has been partial delay in construction due to failure of one
contractor. Civil works are now expected to be completed by June 1983.
Credit No. 799 Third Telecommunications Project $14.5 million Credit of
August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The earth
station for satellite communication and the international telex exchange
(both financed by ODA of UK) have been completed and commissioned. Procure-
ment under the IDA credit is also progressing satisfactorily and all major
equipment items have been contracted.
Credit No. 812 Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
$30 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In July 1980, a landslide in the catchment area caused a major flood
in the Kosi river, causing a considerable erosion and endangering the Chatra
Main Canal. Emergency flood protection works were carried out. Investiga-
tions for the design of headreach works to improve the water supply to and
distribution within the main canal have been completed. The ICB process for
the construction of the headreach improvements and irrigation and drainage
works in about 12,000 ha has been completed; bids have been evaluated and a
contract award has taken place. Project implementation has fallen about two
years behind schedule.
Credit No. 856 Narayani Zone Irrigation - Stage II Project
$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding steadily, although slower than
anticipated. The major constraint is the weakness of local contractors.
Construction is now on-going in all six irrigation blocks. Most civil works
and equipment contracts have been awarded, and construction is progressing
satisfactorily.



-30-                         ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 939 Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills $11.0
million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
January 15, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1985
Although there have been some improvements recently, overall progress
in project implementation continues to be unsatisfactory.  Delays in the                !
release of HMG funds, staff turnover, shortages in field staff, and vacancies
in a number of senior critical posts have severely constrained project
Implementation.  Communication has somewhat improved with the installation
of radio transreceivers and widening of a major link road in the project
area. HMG has taken some steps to improve the planning and Implementation
of RD projects and the concerned Ninistry's monitoring and supervision of
project implementation have substantially improved during recent months.
Credit No. 1008 Community Forestry Developmnt and Training Project $17.0
million of May ZZ, 1980; Effective Date:  September l9,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The Project is progressing well. An effective administrative
organization has been established into which the UNDP/FAO technical assis-
tance team has been integrated. Except for Panchayat Protected Forest the
field planting targets have been met. A total of 700 stoves have been dis-
tributed. Motivation and Education, and Monitoring and Evaluation programs
are being efficiently conducted. Project committees have been set-up and are
functioning. Shortages of staff, delays in release of funds and HKG-8
failure to pay project and training allowances are causing implementation
problems. The recent provision of a pool of permanent posts to which CoW-
munity Forest Assistants can be posted will help keep posts filled.
Architects have been appointed for construction of training facilities at
Pokhara, Hetaura and Kathmandu, and designs have been approved by IDA.
Tender documents have been produced. The designs for the Kathmandu Training
Wing have been completed and the building contractor appointed. The urban
fuelwood study has been completed.
Credit No. 1055 Mahakali Irrigation Project (Stage I); $16.0 million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date:  February 27,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Contracts for undertaking the survey and engineering designs have
been awarded to local engineering consultants.  Most of the work is progress-
ing satisfactorily. ICB tenders for the procurement of the projects8 equip-
ment and vehicles requirements have been invited. The project area has been
reduced by about 20Z, because (i) inaccurate maps were used, and (ii) 1NG        
decided to put restrictions on forest clearing.



-31-                          ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 1059 Third Water Supply and Severage Project; $27.0 million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date: August 27,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The credit is 30% disbursed. The procurement of goods under the
project is proceeding rapidly with much of the material on order and part
delivered. The main pipe order is about 40% completed and supplies of
wellscreens, valves and hydrants are now coming forward. Detailed engineer-
ing design of the project water supply components are well advanced with
draft bid documents prepared. Documents for the sewerage component are under
review. The design and bidding procedures are being adjusted to take account
of the experiences of credit 470 and 704.
Credit No. 1062 Grain Storage Project; $6.2 million Credit of January 14,
1981; Effective Date:  July 31, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
The project is about two years behind schedule due largely to HMG's
past indecision on the institutional arrangements envisaged under the
project. HIG has now decided that grain procurement and distribution
activities should be integrated under the Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) as
planned at appraisal. PEU has completed designs and tender documents for
Phase I construction. Consultants have been envisaged to assist NFC in
management, finance and quality control. The project study on marketing is
completed, and the one on future storage and processing needs is in progress.
Credit No. 1093 Babai Irrigation Engineering Project; $3.5 million Credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 5, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Consultants were contracted in May 1981, and project implementation
is proceeding on schedule. The detailed design work was submitted by Decem-
ber 1982.
Credit No. 1100 Agricultural Extension and Research Project; $17.5 million
Credit of April 6, 1981; Effective Date: July 8, 1981;
Closing Date:  July 15, 1987
The Project Coordinator is in position. Orientation training for
Agricultural Development Officers, Subject Matter Specialists, Junior Tech-
nicians, Junior Technical Assistants and Panchayat Level Agricultural Assis-
tants, has been completed in five project districts (Jhapa, Nawalparasi,
Kapilabastu, Chitwan, and Banke districts) and field work has started.  Good
progress has been made in systemetizing field visits by extension staff,
especially PLAA. Progress of civil works is slow. The Technical Assistance
Agreement has been signed and the fertilizer study has been completed. Con-
sultants have been providing technical assistance as per agreed schedule.



ANNEX II
-32-                          Page 7
Credit No.1101 Hill Food Production Project; $8.0 million Credit of
April 6, 1981; Effective Date: Nay 28, 1981; Closing Date:
July 15, 1987
The project was activated by the appointment of the project coor-
dinator in the summer of l9Bl, but HHG budget was not available until
November. Existing staff have received orientation and training in extension
methodology. Consultants for technical assistance have been appointed and
they have implemented the first phase of their program.  The first shipment
of fertilizer under the project has been distributed and tenders are now out
for the second. Livestock and irrigation activities and construction of
agricultural service centers are lagging, but the project is making satisfac-
tory progress.
Credit No.1191 Cottage and Small Industries Project; $6.5 million Credit
of March 9, 1982; Effective Date: July 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
HMG complied with all conditions, and the Credit was declared effec-
tive on July 9, 1982. Staffing and training for nearly all implementing
agencies have been completed. The advisor for the credit component has been
fielded. Trained Cottage and Small Industry officers of the three banks have
been posted to key branches, and commitments under the credit component have
begun. Two long-term consultants, assigned to CIED, arrived in March 1983.
(One was subsequently injured and will be replaced within FY83.) A third
long-term consultant to be attached to CIDB will arrive in May, and a general
advisor to CIED has been selected and is expected to be fielded by end FY83.
A consulting firm for product modification has been selected and is expected
to begin work within FY83. Preparations for the NY office have been com-
pleted and operations will begin in the first quarter of FY84.
Credit No.1198 Second Education Project; $14.3 million Credit of April 7,
1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1988
The project, which will provide a new technician and trade training
institution in Pokhara in the Western Region of Nepal, was declared effective
on July 23, 1982 having fulfilled two conditions of credit effectiveness.
These concerned the availability of the site to commence construction and the
signing of a technical assistance agreement. The project unit (PIU) has been
established and nearly all PIU staff have been appointed. Tendering for the
construction of the Institution is underway.  It is expected that recommenda-
tion to IDA for contract awarding will be presented to the mission presently
in the field. The government is considering using the services of
ILO/Equipro for the procurement of equipment.



-33-                           ANNEX II
Page B
Credit No.1260 Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; $9.2 million Credit
of July 9, 1982; Effective Date: September 30 *19821 Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation started under an advance from the 7lroject
Preparation Facility (PPF). The credit was declared effective on October 1,
1982. The project has three major components: (1) a seismic survey of 800
r        line km; (ii) training; and (iii) review of the legal framework of explora-
tion. Collection of seismic data started in December 1983 and has been
progressing satisfactorily, although at a somewhat slower rate than
anticipated. Drafting of a new legislation is at the final stage. Several
professionals of the Department of INines and Geology (DMC) have been sent for
training in legal and technical matters.
Credit No. 1316 Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Stage II Project; $16.0 million
credit of Mlarch 16, 1982; Closing Date: October 31, 1988
The project is to complete Stage I works, ensure sound operation and
maintenance standards, promote active farmers' participation and experiment
with modern tubewell technologies.  Implementation is underway.
C-edit No. 1339 Cash Crop Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of
larch 22, 1983; Closing Date: December 31,1938
The Credit is yet to be declared effective.



-34-
ANNEX III
Page 9
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.      Timetable of Key Events
a. Time taken by the country to prepare the project
9 months
b. The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Forest and Soil Conservation, with the
with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
c. Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of -the first mission to consider the project
August 1981
February 20, 1982 (Identification)
d.  Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 19, 1982
e. Date of completion of negotiations
tay 1983
f. Planned date of effectiveness
September 1983
Section II.     Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III.    Special Conditions
The designation of the Chief Conservator of Forests
as Project Coordinator (a condition of effectiveness,
para 36).



Jt~~~~~~ r ;
C         H        I       N        A
'SA^*CHIUIJL A                    HU M L A                                                                                                            N E PAL                                                    r
A'0.                                                                                                                                     SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
kQ _                                                                      _                                                   ,,_ , , ) j ,   NPROJECT AREA
r    tA'    J"^Po     - -                                     r                                                                                                    sr
Na  -5 -d-  '-'- hi" <MU                                               /            ,tEnST
F   *   F-        -H    P  a    _       J   I   U                                                                                                        . I A   4'
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h no Dd t|                          s-    J=  os
IIAJUIA       JML           'L                     
-                                   J             /          I                                                                    C    5flj    J Ukl L 
#-S   t    A, ANCM z LALIKOT                                                                                                              -     -  tgrtbAs
.,4ANCHANPUI'                             DAIEK                   ,,-'                                                                                                    birs!   ojdra3
i                       ~~~~~IJUIKfI  fL.L    -
%~~~~ -.                             iAO        *OtPA24f
K A I tEll^I A             AL PK
*.A., S% *A                                           - DG l r *  s                                                                - 5
.t *>  e  ^ r ~W.-.     I  101A    ^>   g   f                ,)   5   X   O::   A 't   f    ^
 ,CMETETS 0   ~~~~~~  CC   IS  '00  '20  'a:   'Neo                                               Ir      
\. i LU-.I r%J 5 ..Lt,'% aa    fA   A'   a  r    /G                            5 I a   - * Ai  J n t5;-*mt
%si.'"s U.. Nrr                                                                    D        IV A3' Rfl -", t*O\ bra+                                                                                             . ST. 
5V    r i -0   ,.  t %-c.'t   E n   a ,  k U -     i L - *r - a s r .r3   t r a.   C. ,    c.r S @  : t  _                                                                                                                        _
57'                                              IA.                                                                                                               W    -~~~~A.
!+ # ,S,S1 s .:L$w      *tt.' .s :!1> bW A A  ?d  K t.St, 
esw .-rw;.z^**iv~e7 Jrze rh,,,>tv<@,te rc,,, rs-- iG4 e                                                                                                                                                      ;
I :. -+ *, r .1s: :1 !t V rrE S sse->sf v re roorv l ! * ,E 



