Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12615
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1400-NEP)
DECEMBER 21, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency = Nepalese Rupee (NR)
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal Year (1983)                       US$1.0 = NRs 14.30
Intervening Years (1983/84 - 1991/92)       US$1.0 = NRs 32.50
Completion Year (1992)                      US$1.0 = NRs 43.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Kilometer (km)                   0.62 miles
1 meter (m)            2        1.09 yards
1 square kilometer (km)   =   100 hectares (ha)
1 hectare (ha)              =   10,000 m  = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 cubic meter (m3)          =   35.32 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 cubic meter               =   28.28 cubic feet (for true board measure)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -       Asian Development Bank
CF        -       Community Forestry
CFAD      -       Community Forestry and Afforestation Division
CFDD      -       Community Forestry Development Division
CFDTP     -       Community Forestry Development and Training Project
CTA       -       Chief Technical Adviser
DFO       -       District Forest Officer
EEC       -       European Economic Community
ERR       -       Economic Rate of Return
FAO       -       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP    -       FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FD        -       Forestry Department
FI        -       Institute of Forestry
FRD       -       Forestry Research Division
GDP       -       Gross Domestic Product
HMG       -       His Majesty's Government of Nepal
IDA       -       International Development Association
M&E       -       Monitoring and Evaluation
MEU       -       Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MFSC      -       Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation
MFTW      -       Ministry of Forests Training Wing
ODA       -       Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
P.A.      -       Per Annum
PCR       -       Project Completion Report
SAR       -       Staff Appraisal Report
SCF       -       Standard Conversion Factor
TA        -       Technical Assistance
TCFPU     -       Terai Community Forestry Project Unit
TCP       -       Technical Cooperation Programme
UNDP      -       United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offic of DiOecto,-Gonera
Opeireatln Evaluation
December 21, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on NEPAL
Second Forestry Project (Credit 1400-NP)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Nepal - Second Forestry Project
(Credit 1400-NEP) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. The Borrower did not submit Part
I.
Credit 1400-NEP of US$18.0 million (SDR 16.7 million) was approved in July 1983
and closed in June 1992, two years behind schedule, and US$13.7 million (SDR 10.4 million) was
canceled.
Project design was based on the Nepal Community Forestry and Training Project (Cr.
1008-NEP), approved in 1980, and aimed to increase supplies of a broad range of forest products,
promote people's participation in forest management, introduce improved cooking stoves to conserve
fuel, expand training facilities and forestry research, and strengthen the Forestry Department.
The well-prepared PCR explains clearly that project design was inappropriate and
incomplete. The design was based on a project for Nepal's Hills which was ill-adapted to the Terai,
and design details missing at approval prevented implementation from starting on time. As a result,
implementation started badly and never recovered. Design flaws were followed by counterpart
funding shortages, slow mobilization of co-financing and appointment of key staff, and cumbersome
local procurement practices. Efforts to elicit farmer participation in forestry outside private lands
through village panchayats failed. Ineffective monitoring and evaluation made reliable data scarce,
and combined with poor project coordination to remove any chance of turning the project around
during implementation. The successful development of private tree nurseries and farm forestry,
however, are small but significant bright spots in an otherwise weak performance.
The principal lessons of the project are familiar: quality at entry matters vitally, and
the Bank must appraise more carefully the institutional capacity of Borrowers to implement complex
projects. The project is rated as unsatisfactory, sustainability is unlikely, and institutional development
is negligible.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECONTD FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1400-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE    .     .     .    .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
PART I:       PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identty  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background    .   .   .   .   .   .   .    .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .    .     .    .
Project Objectires  and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Project  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Project ResuLts   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
IDA Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Consulting  Services   .........                   ...      ...     ...     .      .   16
Project Documentation  and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
PART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .  18
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Related Bank Loans  and/or Credits   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  70
Project  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
A.   Project Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
B.   Project Financing  (US$million)  . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
A.  Direct Benefits  ................    22
B.   Economic  Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
C.   Financia! Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
D.   Studies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Use of IDA Resources  ....................    23
A.   Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
B.   Missions ..   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          23
C.   Costs     .    .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .   .    .  23
Status of Compliance with Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEX 1:    Economic Analysis   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Table  1: Economic Analysis  of the Vhole Project   . . . . . .  28
Table  2: Actuai Project Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Table 3: Annual  Planted Areas   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
Table  4: Economic Crop Budget  (Maize)   . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Table  5: Economic Crop Budget  (Mustard)   .    . . . . . . .                  32
Table  6: Economic Crop Budget  (Pulses)  . . . . . . . . . .                   33
APPENDICES:
1.   In-Country  Training Courses and Workshops   . . . . . . .  34
2.   Publication   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
PROJECT DATA SHEET   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1400-NEP)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Forestry
Project in Nepal, for which Credit 1400-NEP in the amount of US$18.0 million was
approved on July 3, 1983. However, in November 1985, the Credit was reduced to
US$16.0 million as cofinancing through an EEC grant became available.   In
addition, the project scope was revised in November 1990, and at that time the
Credit was further reduced to US$9.0 million. The Credit was closed on June 30,
1992, with total disbursements of US$4.3 million.  Grant funds provided by EEC
were used to finance the technical assistance (TA) component executed by FAO
until the end of 1989, and FAO/TCP and UNDP assistance was extended from January
1990 to June 1991 to provide continuing support for TA activities.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by an FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program mission1 which visited Nepal in March 1993.  It is based on
a review of all relevant project documents, field visits to selected project
areas and discussions with the Borrower's project staff and associated Bank
staff.   Part II, which was to be prepared and submitted by the Borrower by
September 15, 1993, has not yet been received.
T. Lohavisavapanich (Economic/Mission Leader) and M. Johnson (Forester).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1400-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
(i)       The objectives  of the project were  to:  (a)  increase  supplies  of
fuelwood, poles, timber and fodder in 13 districts of the central and eastern
Terai, by planting barren lands and by improving areas of natural forest;
(b) promote people's participation in planting and forest management activities;
(c) introduce and popularize improved cooking stoves to conserve fuel; and
(d) expand training facilities, improve research and extension and strengthen the
Forestry Department (FD). These were to be achieved over a six-year period by
(i) establishing 4,550 ha of community (panchavat) and strip plantations, 3,200
ha of institutional and demonstration woodlots and 5,900 ha of agro-forestry
plantations; (ii) distributing 32 million seedlings to farmers for planting on
12,500 ha of privately owned lands; (iii) improving 35,000 ha of natural forests;
(iv) establishing a network of 328 nurseries, one third of which were to be
privately operated; and (v) distributing 20,000 improved cooking stoves. The
project also provided funds for the expansion of training facilities and
strengthening of the forest organization, particularly in forestry extension,
research and monitoring and evaluation (M&E). Substantial technical assistance
(TA) was also provided by the project to help in executing field plantings and
developing a training and research program and an M&E system.
(ii)      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
was estimated at NR 343 million or US$24.0 million.   This was to be financed
through:  (a) an IDA Credit of US$18.0 million (SDR 16.7 million), which became
effective in November 1983; (b) His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG) budget
allocations of US$4.8 million; (c) and farmers' contributions of US$1.2 million.
However, in 1985, the amount of the IDA Credit was reduced to US$16.0 million
(SDR 14.9 million) as cofinancing through an EEC grant to fund the project's TA
component became available.    The overall implementation of the project was to
be entrusted to the head of a Terai Community Forestry Project Unit (TCFPU)
established  within  the  Community  Forestry  Development  Division  (CFDD)  at
Kathmandu.   Responsibility  for implementing  the plantation program and the
natural forest improvement and distribution of improved stoves components was to
be entrusted to the District Forest Offices (DFOs) . The research program was to
be developed by the Forestry Research Division (FRD); the Ministry of Forests
Training Wing  (MFTW) was to be responsible for in-service training;  and the
Institute of Forestry (FI) for certificate-level training courses.



- iii -
Implementation Experience
(iii)     The project was  prepared by HMG with  FAO/CP  assistance  and was
processed further by IDA's appraisal mission. The project was over-optimistic
in its scope, and in its design not enough attention was given to relevant
aspects, such as:  (a) the different socio-economic conditions of people in the
Hills and the Terai regions, (b) the country's limited financial and trained
manpower resources, (c) identification of suitable planting and forest
improvement areas in advance, (d) an appropriate design for the improved stoves,
(e) a management plan with supporting information from forest inventory for the
improvement of the natural forest and (f) a clearly defined operational directive
for the development of a research program. These deficiencies caused serious
delays in implementation, hindered the project's progress and reduced its impact.
(iv)      Project implementation was much slower than anticipated at appraisal
because of the late approval of the EEC cofinancing facility; delays in the
establishment of TCFPU and the approval of staff positions and the recruitment
of the Chief Technical Adviser (CTA) and experts; cumbersome procurement
procedures;   and   inadequate   and   late   release   of  budget   allocations.
Implementation progress was also hindered by frequent changes of the head of
TCFPU, and the consequent lack of motivation on the part of the incumbent;
inadequate field staffing and high staff turnover; and limited coordination
between TCFPU, CTA and experts, FRD and DFOs.
(v)       The  IDA Credit was  further reduced  to US$9.0 million  (SDR 6.85
million) in June 1990 due to savings arising from low physical achievements and
substantial depreciation of the Nepalese Rupee against the US Dollar.   As a
result, the project scope was revised and several components were discontinued
or deleted. The agro-forestry plantation and the distribution of improved stoves
components were discontinued from 1991 due to problems of permanent settlement
of landless farmers in state natural forest areas and lack of appropriate design
and  interest by FD  respectively.    The preparation of a National  Forestry
Development Plan component was deleted because it was covered by an Asian
Development Bank-financed Forestry Master Plan exercise and the completion of
some buildings for Fl and MFTW was financed using funds available under CFDTP.
(vi)      Emphasis was given to achieving the set planting targets which were
over-ambitious, leading to neglect of the community participatory approach
proposed under various plantation components.   Also,  because of the village
panchayats'  organizational  and  financial  constraints,  the  concept  of  the
organization of community participation through the village-level organization
proved unwieldy. As a result, most of these community plantations were entirely
established as conventional state plantations. Similarly, little progress was
made in the development of training, extension and research programs until late
in the project.
(vii)     A natural forest management plan was introduced only in the Rautahat
District where experiments on alternative silvicultural systems were carried out.
To address problems of soil degradation, Siwalik plantations were also initiated
through community protection and reafforestation. From 1990 onwards, specific



lv -
emphasis was given to the implementation of the forest management plan in the
Rautahat District, the improvement of degraded fringes of natural forest, the
formation of smaller forest user groups, and the preparation and implementation
of community forest management plans.
(viii)    Performance  of  TA,  which  was  executed  by  FAO,  was  generally
satisfactory but hindered from the start by delay in the approval of EEC
cofinancing  and HMG's  slow consultant  approval  procedures.   Quality  of TA
expertise was generally good, but suffered some problems of liaison with TCFPU
and DFO staff because of the frequent staff transfers.
(ix)      The IDA Credit closed on June 30, 1992, two years behind schedule.
With an adjusted performance rating of 3, i.e., a problem project rating.  The
last disbursement was on December 11, 1992, after which total disbursements
amounted to only US$4.3 million (SDR 3.6 million).  Grant funds provided by EEC
were used to finance TA which was executed by FAO. When the EEC facility was
more or less fully utilized by the end of 1989, continuing TA from 1990 to mid-
1991 was financed under FAO/TCP and by UNDP.  Total project costs amounted to
about NRs 357 million (US$11.0 million). While in Nepalese Rupee terms they are
104Z of the SAR estimate, the relevant proportion in US Dollar terms was 46Z.
Results
(x)       General.      The  project  results  were  mixed.         Despite  various
difficulties,    the  project  attained most  of  the  physical  targets  set  at
appraisal; and the promotion of private nurseries as well as the planting
program,  (except  in respect  of agro-forestry  plantations),  was  successful.
However, there was a shortfall of almost 8OZ in achieving the target set at
appraisal  for  natural  forest  improvement.  Additionally,  the  promotion  of
community participation was only partly achieved, although the project ultimately
created a public awareness of the benefits of tree planting and forest protection
and management.    The  project  also  initiated  training  and  experiments  on
silvicultural treatment in natural Sal (Shorea robusta) forest and soil and water
conservation measures in the Siwalik foothills through community protection and
reafforestation.
(xi)      Impact on Production.   Due to lack of sufficient information on areas
of the private plantings and tree growth rates for all plantations and natural
forest improvement, the increased forest produce resulting from the project
cannot be quantified with accuracy.   Only  an indicative  assessment  of the
project's impact on production is possible applying tree growth rates assumed in
the SAR to: (a) the total area of 10,200 ha covered by the project plantings,
(b) the assumed area of 7,300 ha covered by private plantings (para. 5.10), and
(c) 6,265 ha of degraded fringes of natural forest under improvement by natural
regeneration of Sal trees (para. 5.20).  Based on these assumptions, the proect
over 40 years is expected to generate a total of about 3.8 million m of
over z-0 years  3s3                                                       mo
fuelwood, 0.5 million m  of poles, 0.4 million m  of sawlogs, 0.7 million tons
of  fodder  and  about  1,300  tons  annually  of  foodgrains  from  the  Taungya
intercrops,  or  60Z,  50X,  30Z,  40Z and  40%  of  the  appraisal  estimates,
respectively (Part III, 6. A.).  No fruit tree seedlings were distributed under



- v -
the project.  :he lower estimated production as compared to the SAR estimate is
attributable to the significantly reduced areas of the private plantings, agro-
forestry plantations, and natural forest improvement.
(xii)     Economic Impact.  Due to the failure to establish a proper monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system during implementation, insufficient information was
available to re-estimate the project's economic impact. However, an indicative
economic rate of return (ERR) analysis was carried out based on actual project
costs and estimated benefits (para. 6.2) and using assumptions particularly on
growth and yield rates. The re-estimated ERR of 12Z is far lower than the SAR
estimate of 27Z due mainly to a 40Z cost overrun of costs for nursery and
plantation establishment.
Sustainability
(xiii)    Prospects of sustainability appear good for the private nurseries and
farm forestry components, but much less so for the community, strip, agro-
forestry plantations demonstration woodlots, natural Sal forest management and
the institutional components. After project closure on June 1992, most private
and institutional nurseries continued their activities because their operations
were financially profitable and private nurseries are active in seedling supply.
However, because FD distributed free seedlings and guaranteed procurement, some
private nurseries did not have confidence in future marketing.   In addition,
attention is needed to ensure good average quality of seedlings and species
diversification.
(xiv)     The private plantings appear sustainable and there is little doubt
that Dalbergia (Sissoo) trees are readily marketable. However, in the long term
FD should promote species diversification and appropriate planting techniques
through extension.  The former would reduce price risk from the oversupply of
Sissoo and risk of disease in a near monoculture, while the latter would reduce
the rate of mortality at planting.
(xv)      Since most  of the plantations  established under  the project are
maturing for harvesting and FD's policy is to hand over the forest management
responsibility to local communities, it is desirable that DFOs assist in the
preparation of forest management plans and, hand the plans over to user groups
for implementation. Although TCFPU and DFOs staff gained some experience in the
implementation of community forestry activities, all 230 incremental staff were
transferred back to FD territorial divisions or termi-nated. At present, DFOs
have insufficient budget funds and little staff time to sustain these
plantations, to continue the formation of user groups, and to prepare and
implement forest management plans. In only NRsl7 million was allocated to DFOs,
mainly to cover the costs for completing the remaining buildings.   Without
sufficient financial and staff support, the pace of these works will be very
slow. Moreover, to ensure that appropriate techniques are carried out, extensive
training in forest management is required for both DFO staff and user groups.



- vi -
Findings and Lessons Learned
(xvi)     The project  suffered from a number of shortcomings  including the
inadequacies  of project  design,  funding and organizational  capacity.   The
deficiencies  of  project  design  (para.  4.2)  caused  serious  delays  in
implementation, hindered project progress and reduced its impact.  The funding
constraints severely affected the overall progress of project implementation and
threatened  sustainability  (para.  7.3).    The  organization  of  community
participation through the village panchayat system proved unwieldy; but the
formation of smaller forest user groups, developed with the help of forestry
facilitators, was successful and appears sustainable (para. 5.13). The weakness
of design and lack of clearly defined operational directives for   technical
support components and forestry research affected the qu lity aspect of project
implementation. The weakness in the existing organization of FD and FRD, and the
failure to develop appropriate corrective action plan affected the quality of
planning and design for future community development programs.
(xvii)    The implementation experience suggests a number of lessons, the most
important of which are:
(a)    components without appropriate design and clear operational
directives are unlikely to do well;
(b)    the scope of any project and the scale of its operations should
be based, among other things, on a careful and in-depth
analysis   of   the   Borrower's   financial   and   managerial
capabilities; lack of adequate funding severely affected the
overall progress of the project and its sustainability;
(c)    to ensure timely and successful implementation, in particular
in respect of plantations and degraded natural forest
management, suitable planting areas should be identified in
advance, appropriate forest management plans with supporting
forest  inventory   information  should  be  available,   and
operational directives should be clearly defined;
Cd)    effective  project  implementation  can  be  only  ensured  by
appointing an experienced and energetic Head for the project's
implementation unit, by maintaining continuity in that
appointment, and by establishing close coordination between
different agencies involved in the project;
(e)    while  emphasis  on  the  quantitative  aspects  of  a forestry
project is desirable in the short run, to deal with forest
degradation and the rural energy crisis, focusing on
qualitative aspects, which result in a much greater impact and
which improve prospects of sustainability in the long run, is
equally important;



- vii -
(f)   to ensure adequate local participation in community forestry
activities, it is desirable to identify beneficiaries and
organize them in small user groups, and to define at the outset
their roles, responsibilities and harvesting rights; and
(g)    a meaningful project impact evaluation is possible only when an
efficient M&E system is established and information on the
performance of plantations and natural forest management is
regularly collected during and after project implementation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1400-NEP)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name            Second Forestry Project
Credit No.              1400-NEP
RVP Unit                South Asia Region
Country                 Nepal
Sector           :     Agriculture
Subsector               Forestry
2. Background
2.1        IDA's Nepal Forestry Sector Review of 1978  (Report No. 1952-NEP)
identified two key problems which are still relevant today: (a) the rural energy
crisis and the environmental deterioration caused by over-utilization of forests,
and (b) the need to step up rural afforestation by encouraging local community
participation. Apart from population pressure in the Hills, the main constraints
to forestry development were identified as shortages of trained forestry staff
and financial resources to initiate and maintain a large-scale forest development
program. To remedy the deteriorating forestry situation, the Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1980-85) of His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG) gave priority to
forestry development with people's participation; and HMG, together with IDA and
several bilateral aid agencies, embarked upon a program of reforestation and
natural forest improvement.   Initial efforts were concentrated in the north
Hills, where the first Community Forestry Development and Training Project
(CFDTP, Cr. 1008-NEP) was started in 1980 and completed in 1990. As part of its
strategy for continuing development, HMG decided to pay increased attention to
the forestry needs of the southern plains (Terai), where shortage of fuelwood
supplies had become critical. Accordingly, HMG approached IDA for assistance and
the Second Forestry Project (Cr. 1400-NEP), was processed and approved. The
project constituted the second IDA-supported operatoon in the development of
community forestry and forestry training facilities in Nepal. Subsequent IDA-
funded projects are the Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Project (Cr. 1727-NEP)
with a community forestry component, approved in 1986, the Structural Adjustment



2
Credit (Cr. 1769-NEP)' , approved in 1987, and the Hill Community Forestry
Project (Cr. 2028-NEP), approved in 1989.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The principal objective of the project was to increase supplies of
fuelwood, poles, timber and fodder in 13 districts in the central and eastern
Terai by establishing panchayat forests2/ , strip and agro-forestry plantations,
and by improving areas of natural forests.  Its secondary objectives were to
introduce, popularize and distribute improved cooking stoves as a fuelwood
conservational measure; provide training support to enable the Forest Department
(FD) staff to implement various forestry activities; aid strengthen forestry
research, field operations and planning activities.
3.2        The  project  was  to  finance  a  six-year  development  program,
incorporating the following elements:
(a)    provision  of  funds  for  staff,  civil  works,  equipment,
vehicles,     operating  expenses  and  nurseries   for  the
establishment of 2,000 ha of panchayat forest, 2,550 ha of
strip plantations, 3,200 ha of institutional and demonstration
woodlots, 5,900 ha of plantations in degraded forest areas
using agro-forestry techniques, and distributing 32 million
seedlings for planting on 12,500 ha of private and
institutionally owned land;
(b)    provision of funds for staff, equipment and vehicles for the
management   of  35,000  ha   of  natural   forest   through
silvicultural improvement operations;
(c)    enlargement of the Community Forestry Development Division
(CFDD), the Forestry Research Division (FRD), District Forest
Offices (DFOs) and the Planning Division of the Ministry of
Forests and Soil Conservation (MFSC) to direct and supervise
the nurseries and plantation program, expand forestry research
activities,  monitor  and  evaluate  project  implementation,
prepare a National Forestry Development Plan, and design,
produce and distribute 20,000 fuel efficient wood-burning
stoves;
It  included  a  component  to  develop  an  appropriate  policy  for  the
implementation of community forestry programs in Nepal.
a Panchayat forests meant forest plantations created through the panchayat
system. However, due to a change in the local administrative structure in
1990, the panchayat system was replaced by the Village Development Committee
system and panchayat forests became known as community forests.



3
(d)    expansion of staff training opportunities by providing funds
for the construction of teaching facilities at the Institute
of Forestry (FI) in Pokhara and Hetauda Districts and the
Ministry of Forests Training Wing (MFTW) in Kathmandu,
training 109 Assistant Rangers and 34 Forest Officers and in-
service training and study tours for professional and forestry
extension staff; and
(e)    provision  of  28  consultant-years  of  expatriate  technical
assistance (TA) and 8 consultant-years of local consultancy
services  for  a mid-term  review  of project  progress,  the
establishment and management of community forestry and agro-
forestry nurseries and plantations, forestry research, in-
service forestry training, stove technology, the preparation
of a National Forestry Development Plan, and monitoring and
evaluation surveys.
3.3        The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
was estimated at NRs 342.9 million or US$24.0 million. This was to be funded
through an IDA Credit of US$18.0 million, HMG budget allocations and farmers'
contributions of US$4.8 million and US$1.2 million, respectively. Responsibility
was to be entrusted to DFOs for implementing the plantation program and the
natural forestry improvement and the distribution of improved stoves components.
The research program was to be developed by FRD; MFTW was to be responsible for
in-service training and FI for certificate level training courses.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        Design.   The project was prepared by HMG in July 1982 with the
assistance of Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
(FAO/CP); it was subsequently appraised by Bank staff in November 1982.   At
appraisal, sub-components for forestry research, improved stove technology, mid-
term project progress review, and completion of buildings for FI at Pokhara and
Hetauda and for MFTW were added and the project implementation period was
extended from five to six years.  In view of the environmental degradation and
scarce forest resources,   the concept of the project was sound in its aim to
remedy the deteriorating forestry situation in the southern plains.
4.2        However, the project was inadequate in several aspects.  First, the
project approach was based on two years of limited experience from the
implementation of the IDA-assisted CFDTP in the Hills, where the traditions and
socio-economic conditions of local people are entirely different from those of
the Terai region.  Second, the scale of the project was too large and its scope
complex, considering the country's financial and trained forestry resources.
Third, the physical targets set at appraisal were somewhat arbitrary, as suitable
planting and forest improvement areas were not identified in advance.   These
constraints caused serious delays in implementation. Budget allocations and
provision of incremental staff at about only half of the appraisal estimates were
inadequate, and substantial time was taken to identify the planting areas.  Lack



4
of: (a) appropriate design for the improved stoves, (b) a management plan with
supporting information from forest inventory for the improvement of the natural
forest. and (c) operational directives for the improvement of natural forest and
the development of a research program further hindered implementation progress.
This led to the discontinuation of the improved stoves distribution program and
little progress could be achieved in the latter two programsnamely (b) and (c)
above.
4.3        Organization.    As  proposed  at  appraisal,  the  organization  and
coordination of the project provided sufficient framework for project
implementation. A Terai Community Forestry Project Unit (TCFPU) was to be
established within CFDD at Kathmandu and its Head was to be responsible for
overall project implementation. The Director General of FD was to be appointed
as Project Coordinator for the implementation of activities within FD. In
addition, an existing Project Coordinating Committee established under CFDTP was
to assist the Project Coordinator on coordination between different ministries
*nvolved in project implementation.
5. Project Implementation
5.1        Critical Variances in Implementation.  In the event, MFSC decided to
locate the TCFPU headquarters in Hetauda District. Also, there were delays in
appointing the Head of TCFPU, the Chief Technical Adviser (CTA), and TA experts.
Although the siting of TCFPU in Hetauda facilitated convenient access to project
areas,  it rendered coordination and essential works in Kathmandu difficult.  A
considerable amount of time was spent by the Head of TCFPU and the CTA in
Kathmandu on pursuing the approval and release of budget funds, procurement and
staff positions.      Therefore,  little time was available for management and
supervision of works in Hetauda and at operational units in the field level.
Frequent changes in the position of the Head of TCFPU (5 persons over 9 years)
and the consequent lack of enthusiasm on the part of the incumbents led to poor
project management.   Inadequate field staffing and high staff turnover and
limited coordination between TCFPU, CTA and experts, FRD and DFOs further slowed
down the pace of project implementation. However, the overall project management
and coordination improved towards the end of implementation when a small liaison
office was created in Kathmandu.
5.2        While the project started in 1984, key project activities began only
in 1986. The start-up of the project was delayed because of late approval of the
European Economic Community (EEC) cofinancing facility which became effective in
November 1985, at which time the IDA Credit was reduced to US$16.0 million (SDR
14.9 million).  The project area was extended in 1988 and 1989 from the original
13 districts in the central and eastern Terai to 20 districts to cover also the
western Terai. The IDA Credit was further reduced to US$9.0 million (SDR 6.9
million) in June 1990 due to savings arising from low physical achievements and
substantial depreciation of the Nepalese Rupee against the US Dollar.   As a
result, the project scope was revised and two components were discontinued. The
components for agro-forestry plantation and the distribution of improved stoves
were discontinued in 1991 due to problems of permanent settlement of landless



5
farmers in state natural forest areas, for the former, and lack of appropriate
stove design and interest by FD for the latter. The preparation of a National
Forestry Development Plan component was deleted because this was covered by a
Forestry Master Plan exercise, which was financed by the Asian Development Bank
(ADB).  Funds available under CFDTP were used to complete some buildings for FI
and MFTW.
5.3        The original physical targets were over-ambitious.  Emphasis was given
to achieving those set planting targets, which lead to neglect of the community
participatory approach proposed under various plantation components.   As a
result, most of the community plantations were established as conventional state
plantations. Similarly, little progress was made in the development of training,
extension and research programs until late in the project.
5.4        A natural forest management plan was  introduced only in Rautahat
District where experiments on alternative silvicultural systems were carried out.
Siwalik plantations to address problems of soil degradation were also initiated
through community protection and reafforestation.  From 1990 onwards, specific
emphasis was given to the formation of forest user groups and the preparation and
implementation of community forest management plans.
5.5        The IDA Credit closed on June 30, 1992, two years behind schedule. The
last disbursement was on December 11, 1992, when the total disbursements amounted
to US$4.3 million (SDR 3.6 million).  Grant funds provided by EEC were used to
finance technical assistance  (TA) which was executed by FAO.   When the EEC
facility stood more or less fully utilized by the end of 1989, continuing TA
from 1990 to mid-1991 was financed under FAu/TCP and by the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP).  The total actual project costs amounted to about
NRs357 million (US$11 million). While in Nepalese Rupee terms they contribute
104% of the SAR estimate, the relevant proportion in US Dollar terms was 46Z.
5.6        Nursery and Seedling Production.   The project was to establish 220
community and 100 private nurseries to produce 32 million seedlings for
distribution for private plantings, for panchayat and strip plantations, and for
institutional and demonstration woodlots.  In addition, eight central nurseries
were to be established to produce seedlings for the agro-forestry plantations.
5.7        As  of  June  1992,  548  tree  nurseries  comprising  310  community
nurseries, 233 private nurseries and 5 central nurseries had been established,
representing respectively 141X, 233Z and 63Z of the SAR targets.  In addition,
24  institutional  nurseries  were  established.          Throughout  the  project
implementation period, seedlings produced from private and community nurseries
were procured by DFOs at 53 paisa (1 rupee = 100 paisa) per seedling.  Although
demand was such that it was possible to charge a market-determined price for
seedlings, it was FD's policy to distribute them free of charge to villagers and
institutions.  This  led to wasted  resources  and  inadequate maintenance  and
protection after planting.
5.8        Because of the lack of regular monitoring, no reliable information was
available on the total seedlings produced, distributed or surviving.  Most of the



6
figures used to illustrate the physical achievements of the project were based
largely on the number of nurseries established and an empirical average annual
production of 60,000 seedlings per nursery. However, the increasing number of
nurseries established indicates that demand for private and institutional
plantings rose rapidly towards the end of the project period. About 13 million
seedlings were reported to have been distributed from 1985 to 1988 and a further
8.5 million in 1989, 6.5 million in 1990 and 9 million in 1991. Thus, in total,
about 37 million seedlings were distributed by the end of 1991, exceeding the SAR
target by 16Z. Furthermore, 14 million seedlings were reported to be held by
private and community nurseries for planting in the second half of 1992.
5.9        According to the results of a farm forestry survey conducted in six
districts in 1989, Sissoo (Dalbergia sissoo) has been the main species raised and
represents over 90Z of seedlings planted. The survey showed that after Sissoo,
the next three most requested species were, in descending order, Teak (Tectona
grandis), Ipil-Ipil (Leucaena leucocephala) and Sal (Shorea robusta), although
the most commonly planted after Sissoo were Ipil-Ipil,Dendrocalamus sp. Dalbergia
latifolia and Eucalyptus sp. Of the 450 villagers surveyed, 77Z said they would
be willing to pay NR 0.51 per seedling and the mission found at least NR 1.0
quoted as a likely market price in 1993.  Recent instances of nocturnal looting
of Government nurseries for Sissoo seedlings indicated strong demand. Given a
regular supply of reliable seed, the prospects for continuing private nurseries
appear very good.
5.10       Private Plantings.  Because most land in the Terai is privately owned,
development of farm forestry is very important. The project target to distribute
32 million seedlings was equal to planting 12,500 ha. As noted para 5.8, 37
million seedlings were distributed for private and institutional planting by the
end of the project's last planting season in 1991. Trees were planted mainly for
fuelwood (64Z), followed by timber (29Z) and fodder (4Z); but, due to lack of
regular monitoring, the overall rate of survival of seedlings is uncertain. As
an indicator, however, a 1989 survey showed that the average survival rate for
all species planted was only 39.4Z.   Livestock damage accounted for 50? of
mortality,  improper planting method 15Z, and damage by people 8Z.  Using an
empirical planting rate of 2,000 trees/ha and an average survival rate of 39.4?,
37 million trees are equal to planting 7,300 ha or 58Z of the SAR target.
Although demand for seedlings and willingness to pay appear sufficient to fuel
private nursery development, there appears to be a continuing need for TA to
improve site and species selection, genetic improvement of selected specie
weeding and protection from livestock.
5.11       Community Forestry.  At appraisal, it was recognized that the concept
of community forestry would be new in the Terai. The community participation in
the panchayat forest and in demonstration woodlot plantations was to be organized
through the village panchayat. Sites were to be selected by village panchayat
forest committees and DFOs, with plans for their management drawn up with FD's
assistance and agreed with the village panchayats. Plantations were then to be
established and maintained for four years by DFOs using hired labor. After that,
protection was to be the panchayat's responsibility and forest produce divided
among panchayat members according to forest plans.



7
5.12       As  stated  earlier  (para  5.3),  emphasis  was  initially  given  to
achieving the set planting targets and community participation was neglected.
Inadequate staffing, training and extension services contributed to this. In
addition, the village-level organization proved unwieldy as the village
panchayats were administratively too distant from local beneficiaries, overloaded
with various development works and not financially and managerially capable of
organizing user groups or maintaining the established plantations. These
shortcomings were not thoroughly assessed at appraisal. As a result, most of the
plantations were established without community involvement.
5.13       Community participation therefore evolved from the panchayat system
to the formation of smaller user groups, which was developed under a forestry
facilitator approach in 1989 and implemented from 1990 onwards. As a result, as
of June 1992, about 142 user groups were formed; 109 forest management plans were
prepared covering about 5,000 ha of plantations and degraded fringes of natural
forest; and 65 plans, covering about 3,000 ha, were handed over to user groups
with DFOs' assistance for implementation. However, following project closure,
DFOs have insufficient budget funds and little staff time to continue these
activities (para 7.3).
5.14       Panchayat Forest.  At appraisal, 2,000 ha of vacant public land was
to be planted as panchayat forest.  As of June 1992, a total of 2,300 ha of
plantations (1152 of the SAR target) were established entirely by DFOs without
community participation. Ninety percent of the plantations were established over
with fair-quality Sissoo.   However,  the establishment costs were high when
barbed-wire fences and hired forest watchers were used for protection.
5.15       Institutional and Demonstration Woodlots.  As against the SAR target
of 3,200 ha (for establishing 1,000 ha of institutional and 2,200 ha of
demonstration woodlots on vacant lands and small isolated blocks of degraded
natural forest, respectively), a total area of 2,620 ha was planted (82Z of the
SAR  target),  consisting  of  1,010  ha  of  institutional  and  1,610  ha  of
demonstration woodlots.   The shortfall in demonstration woodlots was due to
difficulty in identifying small blocks of degraded forest areas and a lack of
interest from village panchayats. Generally, the plantations were well
established, mostly with Sissoo but with other species such as Teak, Eucalyptus,
Acacia auriculiformis, Ipil-Ipil, Melia azedarach and Cassia siamea. Although
the community aspect was neglected, the objective of demonstration was largely
achieved.
5.16       Strip Plantations.  A total of 2,550 ha was to be established along
roadsides, canals and riverbanks using paid labor to plant and protect the
plantations, These plantations were to supply fuelwood, poles and timber to
Government, and minor forest produce, (e.g., grass, fodder, fruit, twigs, etc.,)
to local inhabitants.   A total of 2,380 ha (93Z of SAR target) was planted.
Expensive mounds were used at roadsides, which were not always necessary, but
overall quality was good.  The plantations have a high visual impact, act as an
admirable demonstration of a variety of species, are about 80Z Sissoo with some
Teak, Eucalyptus, Ipil-Ipil and other species, and have an unquantifiable, but
probably beneficial effect on the local micro climate. Canal banks are the



8
property of the Ministry of Water Resources and roadside strips belong to the
Ministry of Transport and Communication.  With the latter, there were cases of
resentment where land was acquired for road construction by compulsory purchase,
with no compensatory payment being made.  This led to instances of uprooting of
trees by uncompensated former owners of the land. Overall, however, roadside and
canalside planting was very successful.
5.17       Siwalik Plantations.  Although not envisaged at appraisal, about 1,240
ha of Siwalik land was reported to have been covered by plantings. Siwalik land
is moderately to steeply sloped with a severe natural erosion hazard; it needs
to be kept under forest cover, mainly for protection, with only minor removal of
produce for local usage. Large denuded areas are in need of reafforestation.
Considerable success can be and has been achieved by natural regeneration (para
5.19), but planting is also necessary in some places.  However, since almost all
of the plantings were undertaken in 1991/92, it is too early to measure success.
5.18       Agro-forestry Plantations.  At appraisal, a somewhat arbitrary target
of 5,900 ha spread over eight sites in four districts was set for replacing
degraded natural forest with plantations of quick-growing species using Taungya
agro-forestry. This involved introducing landless people into state forest land
to plant denuded forest and cleared land with trees and to intercrop with their
agricultural crops until canopy closure.   The target exceeded the capacity to
implement and led to design, organizational and management problems.  Locations
for action were reduced earlier on by FD from eight to two and only 1,680 ha (28Z
of the SAR target) were established with Taungya intercropping (maize, pulses,
mustard, etc.) over three years.   In some cases Sal forest, which could have
regenerated naturally, was cleared for plantations of exotic species such as
Teak, Eucalyptus, Ipil-Ipil and Acacia spp.  Sometimes poor matching of species
to site led to plantations no more productive than Sal.  In one of the two areas
where project funding supported the extension of an already existing Taungya
scheme, farmers were left deep inside the forest land without adequate supporting
social infrastructure and with nowhere else to go, causing them considerable
social hardship. In the other location, the agro-forestry plantations were sited
more wisely at the forest edge and the landless participating farmers remained
in their villages outside forest land.
5.19       Natural Forest Improvement.  The SAR envisaged managing 35,000 ha of
natural forest through silvicultural improvement operations in blocks of forest
spread through each of the seven forestry divisions in the project area, when no
management plans were in force and trials were required to establish which
silvicultural systems would be most appropriate to local conditions. The concept
was therefore modified by project management and work concentrated only in
Rautahat District. With TA, a baseline survey and forest inventory were carried
out, and a ten-year management plan drafted in 1989 for the 31,000 ha of the
Rautahat  forest.   Initial five-year trials of four different silvicultural
systems were laid out and should be followed by treatment of 11,950 ha by the end
of the ten-year plan period. However, it took 18 months to obtain MFSC approval
for the plan, leaving hardly another 18 months for implementation before the
extended project closure. With further TA input on detailed implementation and
training of Rautahat District staff, some 60 ha were given experimental fellings.



9
Although funds were made available from the budget, DFOs lacked additional
logistical support and manpower to fully implement the plan. Without continuing
external support, development of effective sustainable management of the natural
forests of the Terai is unlikely.
5.20       A highly desirable development not fully foreseen at appraisal has
been the assumption of management by communities of the degraded fringes of Sal
natural  forest.    By  providing  protection  from  fire  and  grazing,  natural
regeneration--particularly of Sal by root suckers--occurs prolifically and
clearing and replanting are not always necessary. Since 1990 the project has
initiated preliminary management in this way over about 6,265 ha.
5.21       Training and Extension.    The project design included provision of
funds for construction of teaching facilities, fees, travel and allowances for
training 109 Assistant Rangers and 34 Forest Officers in MFTW's regular in-
service training programs. Provision was also made for funding a considerable
separate project in-service training program and study tours for professional and
forestry extension staff.
5.22       Civil works were financed using funds available under CFDTP (para
5.2). MFTW's in-service training programs covered 479 participants at officer
level and 1,015 at ranger level (from both the project and non-project districts)
over the project period. The project also successfully developed a comprehensive
in-service training program shaped to the conditions in the Terai.
5.23       Courses  were  designed  to  decentralize  training  and  extension
activities  to  regional  and district  levels,  as  only  the  establishment  of
independently working structures at these levels would ensure long-term
sustainable development. Over 40 courses and workshops were held (Appendix 1)
and  subjects  included  planning,   forest  management,   forest  protection,
environmental awareness, environmental protection, nurseries, agro-forestry, seed
collection, community forestry and stove promotion and installation. They were
designed variously to suit the needs of forestry staff, nursery naikes, forestry
facilitators, forest motivators/stove promoters and installers, farmers and
institutional participants from schools' campuses and community committees.
Overseas study was sponsored for one MSc in natural resources management, one
three-month course in extension management and communication and one three-week
training in social forestry. Group study tours were arranged in the Terai and
in the Philippines, Korea, Nigeria, Sudan and Europe. The rapid expansion of
community and on-farm forestry towards the end of the project period is evidence
of the success of training inputs.
5.24       Research.  The project was to provide staff, vehicles, buildings and
operating expenses to strengthen and enable FRD to undertake an expanded research
program consisting of species and provenance trials, upgrading improved seed
collection, studies on nursery practice, investigations on intercropping of trees
and agricultural crops, and studies on planting and tending operations, in growth
rates in plantations and natural forests and methods of bamboo and poplar
cultivation. The only TA input to research was to be provided by a tree seed
production and procurement specialist for a period of 12 months. However, such



I10
a consultancy was not included in the TA agreement between HMG and FAO and there
was no research input listed in the TA Operation Plan. It was assumed that TA
would come, as necessary, from the ongoing Overseas Development Administration
CODA) funded-Forestry Research Project.  In the event, very little use was made
of the project funding for research.  The 1988 mid-term review stated that no
research had been done and recommended suspension of disbursement, which was
carried out. However, the suspension was subsequently lifted.
5.25       In actual fact, project funding was used for fuelwood species growth
trials which were laid out in 1985 at three sites distributed over three
districts, together with bamboo establishment trials at two sites. Results were
reported in 1991 showing the relative productivity of various fuelwood species
and that bamboo was best propagated from single node culm cuttings. A resurgence
of activity in 1988 and 1989 led to establishment of agro-forestry demonstration
trials in three districts and on-farm agro-forestry trials on 37 farms in a three
more districts. The five-year duration of the trials, however, prevented any
evaluation by project's end. Experiments to measure yield of Sal natural forest
under four different treatments were also set up at one site in 1988. TA funded
by the EEC grant made considerable inputs on poplar cultivation. A poplar
planting program was carried out in 10 Terai districts in 1989 and 1990 to
demonstrate the potential of different poplar clones in various environments and
at different spacing. However, results were not available by project closure and
there was no evidence of FRD/ODA follow-up, highlighting the danger of individual
programs initiating uncoordinated research.
5.26       Improved Stoves.   The program of distribution of improved stoves
started in 1984 as stove promoters/installers were recruited.   By the end of
1990, a total of 24,110 stoves (121Z of the SAR target) were distributed to
villagers. However, their acceptance by villagers suffered from an inappropriate
design.   The appraisal mission had assumed that the stove design distributed
successfully in the Hill areas would be accepted in the Terai, but this was not
the case due to the difference in socio-economic conditions. The size of the
improved stove was too small for the large family size in the Terai, alien to
cooking tradition there, and suffered from maintenance problems as stove
promoters and installers were inadequately trained. According to results of a
survey conducted in 1987, only 60Z of the stoves distributed during 1984-1987
were still in use. Moreover, due to lack of management attention and interest
in FD, the improved stove program was discontinued from 1991 and there was no
further information collected on its performance.
5.27       Monitoring and Evaluation.   The project was to provide funds and
additional staff to strengthen the existing Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU)
in  CFDD  to  monitor  project  progress  and  problems  encountered  during
implementation, evaluate villagers' acceptance of social forestry activities,
determine tree survival rates for the community forestry components, and
participate in the mid-term project progress review.   Funds were also to be
provided for local consultants to establish an M&E system.
5.28       An MEU was established under TCFPU but its staffing was delayed.
Despite the provision under TA for an M&E expert, the development of a system for



11
monitoring the nursery and plantation programs, and the training of a few staff,
there was no regular monitoring carried out, except for a few surveys. Moreover,
the M&E Division of MFSC developed (in 1992) a simple district level M&E system
for use on project-related activities, but the implementation of the system has
yet to be approved by MFSC. As a result, the performance of MEU was inadequate.
Throughout the project implementation period, it only compiled information on the
physical achievements under the nurseries, plantations and improved stoves
distribution components.   No data was collected on seedlings produced and
distributed or on areas planted under the private plantings. Similarly, because
of the poor performance of FRD, little information on tree growth rates was
collected. However, the farm forestry and strip plantation surveys conducted by
TA experts,  local consultants and MEU are useful,  mainly  in terms of the
measurement of tree survival rates.
5.29       A mid-term project progress review was to be carried out in the third
year (1985) of the original implementation period by a TA team with participation
from MEU. However, due to HMG's long delay in approving consultant candidates,
the review was undertaken only in 1988 by a TA team, but without participation
of MEU. The review was found useful by IDA and the Borrower to adjust project
scope and extend the implementation period.
5.30       Technical Assistance.  Performance of TA executed by FAO was generally
satisfactory but hindered from the start by the delay in the approval of the EEC
cofinancing facility and HMG's slow candidate approval procedures. TA did not
become operational until November 1985. Although the CTA arrived in November
1985, subsequent recruitment of experts was slow and full momentum in TA
activities  was  therefore  not  attained  until  1988-89.    Initially  the  TA
concentrated on getting FD plantation activities under way.   Training and
extension activities to reorientate FD staff to the community approach and
involve communities in forestry activities developed only from 1989 onwards and
have since been showing impressive field results.   The training courses and
workshops organized by TA are listed in Appendix 1 and the publications produced
are in Appendix 2.
5.31       Quality of TA experts was generally good but suffered some problems
of liaison between TCFPU and DFOs staff, which was caused by frequent transfers
of the staff.  Following the end of project funding, all TA has been discon-
tinued. Project incremental staff have been paid off and a number of TCFPU staff
with valuable project experience have retired.   To continue a number of the
project's activities, further TA inputs may well be required.
6. Project Results
6.1        General.   Project results have been mixed.  Despite various diffi-
culties, the project attained most of the physical targets set at appraisal.
The promotion of private nurseries and the planting programs, except in respect
to agro-forestry plantations, were successful. However, there was a shortfall
of almost 8OZ in achieving the target set at appraisal for natural forest
improvement. Also, the promotion of community participation was only partly



12
achieved, although the project ultimately created a public awareness of the
benefits of tree planting and forest protection and management. The project also
initiated training and experiments on silvicultural treatment in Sal natural
forest and soil and water conservation measures in the Siwalik through community
protection and reafforestation.
6.2        Impact on Production.   Due to lack of sufficient information on areas
of private plantings, tree growth rates for all plantations and natural forest
improvement, the increased forest produce resulting from the project cannot be
quantified with accuracy. Only an indicative assessment of the project's impact
on production is possible by applying tree growth rates assumed in the SAR to:
(a) the total area of 10,200 ha covered by the project plantings, (b) an assumed
area of 7,300 ha covered by private plantings (para 5.10), and (c) 6,265 ha of
degraded fringes of natural forest under improvement by Sal natural regeneration
(para 5.20). Based on these assumptions, the project over a period of 40 years
is expected to generate a total of about 3.8 million mz3 of fuelwood, 0.5 million
m3 of poles, 0.4 million m3 of sawlogs, 0.7 million tons of fodder and about
1,800 tons annually of foodgrains from the Taungya intercrops, or 60Z, 50Z, 30Z,
40Z and 40Z of the appraisal estimates, respectively (Part III/6A). No fruit
tree  seedlings  were  distributed  under  the  project.    The  lower  estimated
production as compared to the SAR estimate is attributable to the significantly
reduced areas of private plantings, agro-forestry plantations and improved
natural forest.
6.3        Economic Impact.  Due to failure in establishing a proper M&E system,
insufficient information was available to re-estimate the project's economic
impact. However, an economic rate of return (ERR) analysis was carried out based
on actual project costs and estimated benefits (para 6.2) and using assumptions
particularly on growths and yield rates. However, this analysis should be deemed
indicative. The re-estimated ERR for the project at 12Z (Annex 1, Table 1) is far
lower than the SAR estimate of 27Z.  The lower re-estimated ERR is due mainly to
a 40% cost overrun in nursery and plantation establishment and to the reasons
given in para 6.2.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1        Prospects of sustainability appear good for private nurseries and farm
forestry,  but critical for the community,  strip and agro-forestry plantations,
as well as for institutional and demonstration woodlots and the Sal natural
forest management components. After project closure in June 1992, most private
and institutional nurseries continued their activities, due mainly to financially
profitable operations.   The scene is set for private nurseries to take over
future seedling supply. However, because FD distributed free seedlings and
guaranteed procurement, some private nurseries did not have confidence in future
marketing. In addition, to ensure their profitibility, private nurseries should
pay more attention to producing better quality seedlings of the species damaged
by the people.



13
7.2        The private plantings appear sustainable and there is little doubt
that Sissoo produce is readily marketable. However, it would be desirable in the
long run to promote species diversification and appropriate planting techniques
through extension. The former would be to reduce price risk from the oversupply
of Sissoo and risk of disease in a near monoculture, while the latter would
reduce the rate of mortality at planting.
7.3        Since most  of the plantations  established under the project are
maturing for harvesting and FD's policy is to hand over the forest management
responsibility to local communities, it is desirable that DFOs assist in the
preparation of forest management plans and, hand the plans over to user groups
for implementation. Although TCFPU and DFOs staff gained some experience in the
implementation of community forestry activities; unfortunately, all 230 incre-
mental staff were transferred back to FD territorial divisions or terminated.
At present, DFOs have insufficient budget funds and little staff time to sustain
these plantations and to continue the formation of user groups, preparation and
implementation of forest management plans.  In FY92193 only NRs 17 million were
allocated to DFOs mainly to cover the costs for completing the remaining
buildings. Without sufficient financial and staff support, the pace of these
works will be very slow. Moreover, in order to ensure that appropriate tech-
niques are carried out, extensive training on forest management is required for
both DFOs' staff and user groups.
8. IDA Performance
8.1        IDA's  performance was weak  in project  design  and the  resulting
deficiencies (para 4.2) caused serious delays in implementation, hindered the
project's progress and reduced its impact.   On the community participation
aspect, the concept of the village-level organization through the village
panchayat proved unwieldy, but the formation of smaller user groups was
successful and appears sustainable (paras. 5.12-5.13).
8.2        IDA's performance was much stronger during the implementation period.
A total of 15 supervision missions were fielded at appropriate intervals. At
least one Forester participated in 11 missions and staff continuity was
maintained  over a period of 2-3 years.    Quality  of advice was  generally
satisfactory.   Bank staff were instrumental in accelerating procurement,  in
deploying and recruiting staff and technical experts, and in obtaining budget
allocations. IDA's decision to restructure the project's scope and extend the
implementation period considerably benefited the project. This allowed FD to
plan its activities and achieve most of the physical targets.
8.3        There were, however, some shortcomings to which IDA should have given
closer attention and taken mitigating measures during implementation. First, as
the siting of TCFPU in Hetauda rendered coordination and essential works in
Kathmandu difficult, IDA should have strongly insisted that FD establish a small
liaison office in Kathmandu at an early stage of project implementation, and
appoint an experienced and energetic Head of TCFPU, whose continuity of
appointment could be maintained. Second, it should have ensured that FD carry



14
out regular project monitoring during project implementation so that a meaningful
project impact evaluation could be undertaken.   Third,  to enhance community
participation at an earlier stage of implementation. IDA should have strongly
encouraged FD to establish a clear policy on ownership, cost and benefit sharing,
and distribution arrangements and procedures for handing over the established
plantations and natural forests to communities for protection and utilization.
8.4        The most important lessons for IDA are:
(a)    the experience of the project suggests that components without
appropriate design and clear operational directives are
unlikely to do well;
(b)    the scope of any project and the scale of its operations
should be considered by a careful and in-depth analysis of the
Borrower's financial and managerial capabilities;
(c)    to ensure full community participation in community forestry
activities, it is desirable to identify beneficiaries and
organize them in smaller user groups, and to define their
participating roles and responsibility and harvesting rights
at the outset;
(d)    to ensure timely and successful implementation, in particular
in respect of plantations and degraded natural forest
management programs, suitable planting areas ought to be
identified in advance, appropriate forest management plans
with supporting information from forest inventory ought to be
available and operational directives must be ascertained and
clearly defined; and
(e)    a meaningful project impact evaluation would be possible only
when an efficient M&E system is established and information on
the performance of plantations and natural forest management
is regularly collected during and after project implementa-
tion.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        In general. the Borrower's performance was satisfactory, especially
in the promotion of private nursery and seedling production and in the attainment
of the plantation targets.   However,  project implementation suffered from a
combination of factors which resulted 4n a final project rating of 3, i.e., a
problem project.  These factors were:  low budget allocations, HMG's procedural
rigidities  in the  procurement  and awarding  of civil work  contracts,  late
appointment and deployment of key project staff, slow clearance of technical
assistance consultants, and late release of budgeted funds.  Frequent changes in
the Head of TCFPU and staff high turnover and limited coordination between TCFPU,
DFOs, FRD and the TA team caused some operational inefficiencies. Implementation



of the training, extension and research components was not given adequate
priority, and forestry research remains weak even after project completion. The
distribution of a free and unlimited number of seedlings led to significant
wasted resources and lack of proper maintenance and protection after planting.
9.2         In the community participation component little attention was given
to involve local communities in preparation of forest management plans and in
plan implementation until late in the project. FD also failed to carry out
regular project monitoring which prevented a meaningful project impact
evaluation.    However,  an  encouraging  feature  is  that  the  Borrower,  with
assistance from TA experts, has been responding to emerging problems and has
initiated some remedial measures, such as silvicultural treatment for Sal natural
forest management; formation of user groups and the hando.er of state plantations
and degraded fringes of natural forests to communities;   delegation of the
release of tri-mester budgets to the District Comptroller General and
decentralization of civil works contract awarding (para. 11.2).
9.3        The  Borrower  satisfactorily  complied with  the  Credit  covenants.
However, the statements of expenditure, project account and special account audit
reports were often prepared with serious delay. Moreover, due to lack of
commitment from the Borrower after Credit closure, neither sufficient local funds
were allocated nor project staff maintained (para. 7.3) to continue development
works initiated or to sustain momentum in community forestry activities gained
through the project.
9.4        The main lessons for the Borrower are:
(a)    it is important at appraisal/negotiations for the Borrower to
accept only projects that are within its funding capacity;
lack of adequate funding severely affected overall progress of
the present project and is threatening its sustainability;
(b)    an effective project organization can be ensured by appointing
an experienced and energetic Head for the project's
implementation unit and maintaining continuity in that
appointment, and by establishing close coordination among the
different agencies involved in the project;
(c)    timely completion of the dispersed civil work programs  is
likely   only   if  the   contract   awarding   authority   is
decentralized from the central to district level; and
(d)    while emphasis on the quantity aspects of a forestry project
is desirable in the short-run to deal with forest degradation
and the rural energy crisis,  focusing on quality aspects,
which result in a much greater impact and which improve
prospects  of  sustainability  in the  long-run,  is,  equally
important.



16
10. Proiect Relationship
10.1       Based on the foundation of years of close cooperation between FD and
IDA, the relationship between the Borrower and IDA was consistently good. At the
ministerial level, lack of coordination has been noted, particularly between FD
and the Departments of Roads and Transport and of Irrigation, on the identifi-
cation and release of lands for strip plantations.   At present, due to land
tenure problems, some of the strip plantations have not yet been released by the
above departments for handover to communities. Within MFSC, there was a lack of
coordination among TCFPU, FRD, FI, MFSC's Training Wing and Planning Division,
which affected the progress and quality of the research, training and extension
programs and the M&E of the project.
11. Consulting Services
11.1       Despite serious delay, procurement was satisfactory and most of the
anticipated equipment and vehicles were purchased. However, some unnecessarily
large equipment (e.g., generators, bulldozers and mechanical cultivators) was
purchased. Some are redundant and others too expensive on fuel.
11.2       Services rendered by expatriate and local consultants were generally
satisfactory (paras. 5.30-5.31). The performance of contractors for civil works
programs was variable but generally adequate. However, construction of buildings
was hampered by a combination of factors:  (a) financial constraints;  (b) an
attempt by FD to put the whole civil works package into one bidding contract; and
(c) lengthy procedures of approval and award of contracts. As a result, many
biddings were called, but failed to attract any contractors due to the dispersed
construction locations. Construction began only in 1990 when the bidding was
decentralized to DFOs.  At project closure, only 8 out of a total of 23 DFO
offices, beat offices and staff quarters under construction had been completed,
compared with 103 anticipated at appraisal. The remaining 15 units are expected
to be completed in 1993.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1       Documentation on the project, including the SAR, project files and the
Development Credit Agreement, all provided useful conceptual frameworks but
inadequate implementation directives to the Borrower. These caused serious
implementation delays and led to discontinuation of some component activities
(para. 5.2).



17
12.2       Useful information for project implementation and for PCR preparation
included supervision and mid-term review mission reports, a series of technical
working papers and plantation survey reports prepared under the EEC/UNDP/FAO TA
projects, and TCFPU's progress reports on project activities.   However, cost
information was not kept in detail to allow realistic comparisons with appraisal
estimates and separate accounts were not maintained according to either project
components  or expenditure categories.   Also,   very  little  information was
collected on seedlings produced and distributed for private plantings (para. 5.8)
or on growth and yields of plantations and natural forests (para. 5.28).  There
is, a clear need to pay attention to these aspects in the implementation of any
future project.



18
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1400-NEP)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
fThe Borrower was reauested to submit Part II bv
SeDtember 15. 1993, Part II has not yet been received.1



19
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1400-NEP)
PART TH: STATISTICAL INFORMATTON
1. Related Bank Loans andlor Credits
Loan/Credit                                Tltle/Purpose                                 Year of          Status
Approval
Credit 1008-NEP      Community Forestry Development and Training Project                      1980          Completed
- to increase supplies of fuelwood in Hill areas through establishment of
new plantations and rehabilitation of areas of degraded forets.
Credit 1727-NEP      Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Project                                 1986          Completed
- included a forestry component that reflected HMG's Community Forestry
Policy.
Credit 1769-NEP      Structural Adjustment Credit                                             1987          Completed
- to develop an appropriaee policy environment for the implementation of
a Community Forestry Program in Nepal.
Credit 2028-NEP      Second Hill Community Forestry Project                                   1989           Ongoing
- to mobilize people and resources in the Hill to establish a forest
mmagement system which would conserve and expand the forest
resources needed to sustain traditional farming systems and livelihoods in
the Hills.
2.   Project Timetable
Date  Planned                 Date  Revised                   Date Actual
Identification                                                                                    Feb-March 1982
Preparation                                                                                       June-July 1982
Appraisal                                                                                         November 1982
Negotiation                                                                                          May 1983
Board Approval                                                                                      July 3, 1983
Credit Signature                                                                                 September 1. 1983
Credit Effectiveness                                                                            November 30, 1983
Project Completion                     June 1989                 June 1990, June 1991            December 31, 1991
Credit Closing                        June 30, 1990              June 1991, June 1992              June 30, 1992



20
3.   Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (USS million)
FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93
Appraisal                               0.80   4.10   7.50  10.30  13.50  17.10  18.00
Revised a/                                            6.70   9.00  12.00  15.00  16.00
Revised kj                                                                                8.50   9.25
Actual                                         0.05   1.29   1.47   1.53   1.58   2.64   3.02   3.23   4.34
Actual as % of Appraisal/Revised Estimates       1      19     16     13     11     17     36      35    47
Date of Final Disbursement:        December 11, 1992.
i/ Cancellation of SDR 1.85 million (USS2 million) due to the EEC cofinancing which was approved in November 1985.
k/ A further SDR 8 million (USS10 million) was cancelled in June 1990. Total IDA disbursements amounted to SDR 3.39
million (USS434 million), and the undisbursed balance of SDR 3.46 million (US4.91 million) was cancelled on December
11, 1992. The revised Credit amount in US Dollars equivalent was substantially higher due to depreciation of the US Dollar
against the SDR (19% from USS1.08 = SDR 1.0 in 1983 to the average of USS1.28 = SDR 1.0 during 1984-1992).
4.   Project Implementation
Key Indicators (June 1992)
Appraisal             Actual          Actual as %  of Appraisal
1. Nursety (No.)
Private                                      100                  233                       233
- Community                                    220                  310                       141
- Institution                                   -                   24
- Central Nursery                               8                    5                        63
Total                                 328                  572                       174
2. Seedling Production ('000)                    32,000               37,000                      116
3. Private Plantings (ha)                        12,500               7,300h/                     58
4. Plantations (ha)
- Institutional Woodlots                      1,000                1,010                      100
- Community                                   2,000                2,300                      115
- Strip                                       2,550                2,380                      93
- Demonstration Woodlots                      2,200                1,610                      73
- Siwalik                                       -                  1,240
Total                                7,750                8,540                      110
5. Agro-forestry Plantation (ha)                  5,900                1.680                      28
6. Natural Forest Improvement (ha)               35,000                6,265                      18
7. Improved Stoves Distribution (No.)            20,000               24,211                      121
3I  Mission estumate (see para 5.10 of Part 1)



21
5.   Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
Appraisal Estimate                          Actual
NRs million       USS million       NRs million       USS million
Salaries & Other Operating Costs           78.23              5.47              51.90              1.80
Buildings                                  74.56              5.21              21.50             0.70
Vehicles & Equipment                       33.40              2.34              10.30              0.30
Nurseries & Plantations                    126.22             8.83              175.80             6.00
Technical Assistance                       30.50             2.133              97.60              2.20
Total                               342.91             23.98             357.10             11.00
Comments:
1. Project costs estimated at appraisal included physical and price contingencies. Salaries and other operating costs included
costs of training, stoves, research and the preparation of Forest Development Plan.
2. The actual project costs include EEC, FAO and UNDP grant funds.
3. The total cost overrun in Nepalese Rupee terms was 4%, due mainly to significant cost increases in the establishment of
nurseries and plantations by 40% and the increased TA inputs. Lower costs in buildings and equipment were due to: (a)
only 20% achievements in the construction of DFOs' offices and staff quarters and deletion of some buildings for Fl and
MFTW, which were financed using funds available under CFDTP; and (b) limited procurement of only necessary
equipment. In US Dollar terms, the total cost underrun was 54% resulting from substantial depreciation of the Nepalese
Rupee (127%, from NR 14.3 = US$1.0 in 1983 to the average of NR 32.5 = US$1.0 during 1984-1992.
B. Project Financing (US$ million)
Planned                  Revised                    Actual
DDA                                 18.00                     16.00                     4.30
EEC                                   -                       2.00                     2.201/
HMG/Farmers                         6.00                      6.00                      4.50
Total                               24.00                    24.00                      11.00
/  Including EEC, FAO/ICP and UNDP grant funds.



22
6.   Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate           Actual /PCR  Estimate
Production:
Fuelwood, poles & timber (m3 million)                     8.8                            4.7 A/
Fodder (ton million)                                      1.7                            0.7
Fruits (ton million)                                      0.3 -3
Foodgrains (ton pa.)                                     4,500                          1,8000
Fuelwood Saving from Improved Stoves (m3 p.a.)           6,900                          5,00,
Employment (million person-days)                          2.5                             1.8
al Total forest produce generated from the project over 40 years is estimated at 4.7 m3 million, including 3.8 m3
million of fuelwood, 0.4 m3 million of sawlogs and 0.5 m3 million of poles.
b/ No fruit tree seedlings were produced under the projecL
~/ About 1,800 tons of foodgrains per annum have been estimated from only maize, pulses and mustard.
d/ Estimated at 5,000 m3 annually based on total of 24,211 stoves distributed, of which 60% were still in use after
distribution according to results of the stove survey.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate          ActuaU/PCR  Estimate
ERR (%)                                             27                           121/
Assumptions
- Project Life (years)                              36                            40
- Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)                 0.90                          0.90
- Far Labor Conversion Factor                      0.50                          0.68
a/ See Annex 1, Table 1-6
C. Financial Impact
Data Not Available
D. Studies
None
Comment:      The preparation of a National Forest Development Plan component was deleted as it was covered
by an ADB-financed Forestry Master Plan exercise.



23
8. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff weeks, discounted local consultants at 4:1 ratio)
FY           LENP           LENA            LENN            LOP            SPN            PAD            Total
Pre-1981            1.4                                          0.1                                            1.5
1982               35.1                                          0.2                                           35.3
1983               31.5           33.0            0.3            3.5                                           68.3
1984                                                                             3.5            1.0             4.5
1985                                                                            4.4             1.0            5.4
1986                                                                            14.6                           14.6
1987                                                                            9.8                            9.8
1988                                                                            9.6                             9.6
1989                                                                            9.8                             9.8
1990                                                                            9.0                             9.0
1991                                                                            17.2                           17.2
1992                                                                            4.4                            4.4
1993                                                                             1.9                            1.9
Total          68.0            33.0           0.3             3.8           84.2             2.0           191.3
LENP -  Activities prior to appraisal.           LOP  -  Pre-appraisal and appraisal work by Country DeparumenL
LENA  -  Activities related to appraisal.        SPN  -  Supervision time.
LENN  -  Negotiations activities.                PAD  -  Project administration work during supervision stage.
B.   Missions
Date        Sent   Number of   Person-days   SpecialIzatIon   Performance   Trend    Type of
(Month/Year)    by         persons       In field           A/            Ratingh/        f/    problemsll
Identification   2-3/82        IDAXP         4             80          E.2F,S
Preparation      6-7182        FAO/CP        4             95          E.2F,S
Appraisal                       IDA          4             75          E.F,I,S
Supervision
I                5/84             -          1             6           F                     3           2         M
I                11/84            -          1             12          A                     3           2         F,
mII              5-6/85           .          2             10          B,F                   3           2         M.T
IV               11-12/85         -          I             18          B                     2           2         F.M
V                4/86             -          1             7           B                     3           2         F.M
VI               7-8/86           -          2             24         2F                     3           2         F.M
Vin              12/86            -         11             10          B                     3           2         F.M
vm               10/87            -          I             10          F                     3           2         F.M
IX               5/88             -          1             8           F                     3           2         F.M
X                10-11/88         -          2             10         2E                     3           2         F M,T
Xl              7/89              -          1             4           F                     3           2         FM
XII              11/89            -          I             10          F                     2           2         F
xmI              7/90             -          1             16          F                     2           2         F
XIV              2-3/91           -          3             30          A,FS                 3%1          2         F
XV              3/92              -          2             10          F.M                  3%J          3         F
L/  A = Agriculture; B = Management; E = Economic; F = Forestry; I = Institutional; M = M&E; S = Sociology.
b/ Performance Rating: I = Problem-free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
c/ Trend: 1 = Improving; 2 = Stationary; 3 = Deteriorating.
d./ Type of Problems: F = Financial; M = Management; T = Technical.
gJ Project raiings were adjusted by CPPR missions.
C. Costs
Data Not Available



NEPAL
SECOND  FORESTRY  PRO(IECT  (CR. 1400-NEP)
7. Status of Compliance With Covenants
SECllON         DESCRION OF COVENANT                 ACllON BY       ORIG DATE        REV DATE           STATUS a/               COMMENTS
3.02(a)    Borrower to employ consultants.         Forestry DepL.                                           OK
3.02(b)    Borrower to employ experts of planning and   Forestry Dept.                                     Diet         HMG prepared a Forestry Master
inventory                                                                                                    Plan under ADB/Finnida financed
project
3.04(d)    Borrower to fumnish report not later than 6   Forestry Dept.                                     OK          Expected in carly April 1993.
months after project completion on exe-
cution/initial operation, cost/benefits, bor-
rower/IDA performance, etc.
IQ.
3.04       Borrower to prepare/furnish for approval not  Forestry Dept.                                     OK          Report furnished and mid-term    4
later than 6/30/86 TORs for review for mid-                                                                  review completed in 1988.
term review project execution. Carry out
review and promptly prepare report for
review/comments by Association.
3.05(1)    Borrower to designate Chief Conservator of  Min. Forestry                                        OK          Chief Conservator of Forests now
Forests as project coordinator.                                                                              designated as Director General of
Forests (DGF) and is operation as
the Chief Coordinator.
3.05(2)    Not later than 30 days after project effective-  Forestry Dept.                                  OK
ness, Borrower to appoint officer to assist
Project Coordinator.
3.06(a/b)   Not later than 30 days after project effective-   Min. Forestry                                 OK          Chief of CFAD assigned to this
ness, Borrower to establish position/appoint                                                                 post.  From July 1990 a new
Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests to                                                                       post entitled Deputy Director
administer CFAD.                                                                                             General of Forests, assists DGF
in monitoring the project.



SECTION        DESCRIP1lION OF COVENANT             ACTIPON BY      ORIGPATE         REV DATE           STATUSaW                COMMENTS
3.06(c)    Maintain Training Wing.                 Min. Forestry                                          Part
3.06(d)    Maintain stove improvement unit.           CFAD                                                OK          Stove promotion under project
operates separately as CFAD
stove unit.
3.07      Maintain project coordination committee                                                         OK
chaired by Sec. for Forests, MFSC.
Committee shall meet regularly at least
every 6 months.
3.08      Through Forestry Dept., Borrower shall  Forestry Dept.                                          OK
provide to nurseries necessary production
inputs.
3.09      Borrower shall purchase from nurseries their  Forestry Dept.                                    OK          Project continues to promote
forestry seedling production.                                                                              commercialization of nurseries
(i.e., to let nurseries grow on
market demand).
3.10      Borrower shall cause ADB/N to provide       HMGN                                                OK
nurseries with necessary financing on same
terms as applied for horticultural nurseries.
3.11      Borrower shall not later than 12/31/84   Forestry Dept.                                         OK          Agro-forestry component was
furnish for approval draft model agreement                                                                 recommended to be discontinued
to be entered  into by agro-forestry                                                                       as a separate component. This
cultivators and Forestry DepartmenL                                                                        was merged with the plantation
component.
3.12      Through Forestry Dept., Borrower shall  Forestry Dept.                                          OK
cover all cost incurred by nurseries.
3.13      Borrower to provide housing on site for field  Forestry Dept.                                   Part        Civil works program delayed due
staff,                                                                                                     to decision of FD to cancel all
bids. Civil work operation was
decentralized to district level and
fresh bids were called. Work
started in FY89-90, and a total of
23 units were completed.



SECTION         DESCRWION OF COVENANT                 AC lON BY       ORIG DATE         REV DATE           STATUS aJ                COMMENTS
3.14       Borrower to maintain suitable transpont for  Forestry Dept.                                         OK
field staff to carry out day-to-day activities.
J  OK      =  Covenant complied with.
OK I  =  Covenant complied with now, but was revised previously.
OK 2 = Partial compliance.
PROG  =  Required action is in progress and status considered satisfactory at this time.
SOON = Compliance expected in a reasonably short time.
NYD   =  Not yet due.
DLET  =  Proposed for deletion as covenant no longer relevanL
REVS  =  Needs revision in agreement with Borrower to reflect changed circumstances.
ACT   =  Needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance.
UNK   =  Status of covenant is unknown.



27
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(CR. 1400-NEP)
ANNEX 1
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
TABLES:
1.    Economic Analysis of the Whole Project.
2.    Project Actual Costs.
3.    Annual Planted Areas.
4.    Economic Crop Budget (Maize).
5.    Economic Crop Budget (Mustard).
6.    Economic Crop Budget (Pulses).
APPENDICES:
1.    In-Country Training Courses and Workshops.
2.    Publications.



Prao-ct  -molptAon  Panorr                                Annex  1
seC.,orn   Fretrv  P g-   t                              Table  I
(Cr. 1400-NMP)
Bconomic  Analysie  of the  Whole  Project
(NRa illlion)
nvesEment ........     nc. Brefets b)(d) ..................-.......... ....      Net
CQsts(a) CanmuLity   SbID    Nooakts  AgatoreswyNat.Fcrest  Croos4e  Net Beneffts
Forestsic) P anoauins                (tia)    Imp.
'earl                     0.3        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0 00               0.0       -0.3
Yeaw2                     3.5        0.0        0.0        0.3        1.5        0.0         0.4      -1.3
Vea3                     24.5        0.0        0.0        2.0        5.4         0.0        1 5     -15.6
Yea14                    77.8        0.2        0.0        2.7       20.8        0.0        5.6      -48.5
Yea6                     39 9        0.6        0.0        2.5       11.4         0.0        7.2     -18.2
Year                     34.6         1.1       0.1        0.0        8.2         0.0        7.6     -17.6
Year7                    46.5         1'7       0.2      -1.3        -4.5         0.0        3.7     -46.7
Years                    46.3        2.2        0.1      -1.6        -5.6        0.0         1.7     -49.5
Years                    45.4        2.8       0.03      -3.1        -5.5       55.0                    3.8
Yean o                    3.7        3.0       -0.1      -3.2        -5.4        11.0                   1.6
Yeanl                     3.7        7.1       -0.2       -1.7       -4.1      -18.6                 -21.2
Y'eanl2                   3.7       18.6        1 3        9.0       -1.0      -18.6                    5.6
Yearn3                    3.7       42.7        8.2       16.0       11.5      -18.6                   56.1
Yean 4                    3.7       54.1       17.6       19.2        5.5      -18.6                   74,1
Yeans                     3.7       55.0       16.8        9.4        5.3      -17.5                   65.3
Yearn6                    3.7       527         78         4.4       -3.3      -t171                   40.8
Y'earl7                   3.7       73.6       13.7        4.7       -3.2      -17.1                   68.0
Yearn8s                   3.7       37.6        5.5       -2.1       -3.2      -17.1                   17.0
Yeari                     3.7         1.3       0.1      -1.9        -3.0      -17.1                 -24.3
Year2o                    3.7         1.9      0.03      - 1.7       -Z5         65.3                  59.3
'fear2l                   3.7        6.5       -0.1        0.1       -0.7        25.0                  27.1
Year22                    3.7       18.2        1.5       10.9        3.4       -8.1                    2
Year23                    3.7       42.4        8.3       18.0       18.5       -8.8                   74.7
Year24                    3.7       54.0       17.6       21.3       10.8       -9.1                   90.9
Yea2s                     3.7       55.0       16.8       11.5        9.8       -5.8                   83.6
Year26                    3.7       527        7.8        6.4       - 1.0      -4.3                   579
Year27                    3.7       73.6       13.7        6.6       -1.3       -4.3                   84.6
Year28                    3.7       37.6        5.5       -0.4       -1.3       -4.3                   33.4
Year29                    3.7         1.3       0.1       -0.5       -1.3       -4 3                  -8.4
Year30                    3.7         1 .9     0.03       -0.7       - 1.3      103.4                  99.6
Ye31                      3.7         6.5      -0.1        0.8       -0.6        44.9                  47.8
Yexar2                    3.7       18.2        1.5       11.3         1.1      -1.0                   27.4
Yea=                      3.7       42.4        8.3       18.2         7.7      -1.0                   71.9
Year34                    3.6       54.2       17.6       21.4        4.8       -1.6                   92.
Yeaw                      2.6       55.0       16.9       11.6        4.6       -1 9                   83.6
Year36                    2.2       52.5        7.9        6.6         0.1     -Zi.                    63.0
Year37                     1.9      73.0       13.7        6.9        0.0       -1.9                   89a
Yew-38                     1.5      36.6        5.4        0.0         0.0      -1.9                   38.6
Yearm3                     1.0        0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      150.4                 149.4
Year4o                    0.6        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       65.7                  65.1
ERR-      12.1%
A Annex 1, Table 2. Maintennce and protection and FD's supporting costs are eatlm.Ated at NRa 180/ba
for plantation, and NRs 90 per ha  for private  plantings from  year 10 onwards, based  on esti.Mte.
u-cd  in  the  Forest Kaster  Plan  Preparation  Report.
b) Annual planted  areas are given in Ann-ex 1, Table 3.
c) Including  private  planting.,  panchayat  and  sivalik  plantations.
d) Kconomic  stumpage prices of Siaco  forest produce  are  .attimated  at NRs 1036  /a.3  of  rord  sawloqg,
a.. 706/13  of poles, NRz 240O/L3 of fuelwood, based  on pr-o-nt  arket prices prevailinq  in  the
project arsea,  and NR. 150/ton  of fodder based  on cost of labor  time valued  at NMt.  17/md.
a) Econorac per ha crop  budgets based  on SAR s assumtions, adjusted  and  updated  by  econowo  price- of
outputa, inputs and labor an shown in Annex 1, Tablea 4-6.



Project Comnletion Repoit
pEPAl
Second Forestry Project
(Cr. 1400-NEP)
Actual Project Costs (NRs'O00)
FY83/84 FY84/85 FY85/86    FY86/87 FY87/88 FY88/89 FY89/90 FY90/91 FY91/92             ToIAl
Salaries                               3.7   497.1  1069.9    2141.8  2932.4  3708.6  3965.2  4276.4  *4316 H   2 3 11 I
Project operating Costsa/              9.2   153.0   716.1       2141.6  5679.1  2276.2  2472.7  2890.8  3696.8    20035. 5
Vehicles L Equipment                  44.7   608.2  8267.6        176.0   361.9   147.7   185.0         0.0   508.6    10299 7
Buildings                              0.0      0.0  1034.5       479.3   320.2   126.0  3258.5  2222.0 1-1075.8   21516 .
Nurseries & PlaritIat-ionIs          144.4  1397.1  8603.6    17349.4 19768.9 i 870.4 28812.6 38096.9 41763.5   175806 8
Technical AssisLanceb/                 0.0      0.0      0.0    48750.0 10800.0 11350.0 14220.0 10330.0  2060.0    97510.0
Total (Recurrent Financial Cost   201.9  2655.5 19691.6    71038.2 39862.5 37478.9 52914.0 57816.0 b6921.5   348580 1
Trotal (1992 consLant Finan. Cos   417.7  5284.4 36587.0   116147.4 59554.6 51683.4 69423.2 69148.0 67724.6   475970 3
Total (1992 constanit Econ. Cost   279.9  3540.6 24513.3    77818.8 39901.6 34627.9 46513.5 46329.1 45375.5   3189001 2
a/ including also costs of research, training, stoves, etc.
b/ Costs of technical assistance were only estimates
c/ Actual costs were restated into 1992, aL constant prices by using GDP detlators for local cosLs and MIJV iudt.,'
for foreign exchange component during 1983-1991 as follows:  GDP'deflators:  177, 188, 205, 231, 252, 2/4, 29-1,
327, and 408, respecLively and MIJV index: 153, 175, 155, 132, 120, 112, 113 and 104 respectively.
d/ Economic costs were net of taxes and duties and SCF of 0.9 and Conversion Factors of 0.85, 0.55, 0.78 au1d O 'lu w,:
to local costs, buildings, vehicles equipment and unskilled labor, respecLively.  For nursery and plantation
costs, about 701 were local costs and 30% labor costs.
Ii.-;
PA
cr



Proiect ComDpetion Re2oLI
NiEPAL
Second Forestry Prulect
(Cr. 1400-NEP)
Annual Planted Areas (ha)
FY84/85   FY85/86   FY86/87   FY87/88   FY88/u9  FY89/90   FY90/91   FY9i1/92         TLutal
colllmtunity ForesLrya/             144       53I       1342      1740       )I        1705       2392      1203j    108LO
Strip plantations                    53       281        589       563        265       452        177          0      2380
Woodlots                             51       396        620       717        388       220        228          0      2620
Aqro-foruLAy                         0        50        177       682        404       370          0          0      1683
IlatiLial Forest Imnprovement         0         0          0         0          0         0       43b5       19o0      6265i
I L.1                             248       1261      2728       3702      28its      2747       /162        I s1   20/Io
d/ Including private planting, Panchayat and Siwalik plantations.
1. ri



Proiect Competion RepoL
NB3pAL
Seconj Forestry ProjectL
(Cr. 1400-NEP)
Per Ha Economic Crop Budget
(Maize)
CY1985            CY90             CY95
Seeds(kg)                                13
Price(NRs/kg)                                           10.3              7.6              6.5
Seed Costs                                             134.0             99.1            89.7
Labur (mid)                              25
Labor Cost(NRs/md)a/                     17           1190.0           119o.0          1190.0
Aii iml I DlatL(pd)b/                    20
Animal Costs(NRs)                        45           1350.0           1350.0          1350.0
Total Production Costs(NRs)                           2674.0           2639.1          2629.7
Pioduc loil(kg)                         1.0
Price(NRs/kg)                                            9.4              6.9              6.3
Production Value(NRs)c/                               9460.0           7020.0          6400.0
Net Prodnlction Value(NRs)                            6786.0           4380.9          3770.3
a/ Market wage rate adjusted by CF of 0.68.
b/ Financial price adjusted by SCF of 0.90.
c/ Including by product valued at NRs 100 adjusted by SCF of 0.90.
tD -
a , 



ProjtcL Completion Report
Secod(l Forestry Project
(Cr. 1400-NBP)
Per Ila Economic Crop Budget
(Mustard)
Year 1985  Yeal 1 9Y0  Year 1995
Seeds(kg)                       0.5
Price(NRs/kg)b/                  23
Seed Costs                                           11.3         11.3        11.3
IdLabor (Indj) 
Labor Cost(NRs/md)a/             17                 102.0        it1.U       102.0
Aniimal Draft(pd)                 2
Animal Costs(NRs)                45                   90.0       JU.U         90.0
Total Production Costs(NRs)                         203.3        203.3       203.3
ProdliCL I o(kg)                 40
Price(NRs/kg)b/                   9
Production Value(NRs)                               360.0        360.0       360.0
llet Produict Valuie(NRs)                            156.8       ItU.8       156.8
a/ Firnanicial price adjusted by SCF of 0.90.
b/ Market wage rate adjusted by CF of 0.68.
I,l J-
tD '-



Project Completion Report
NEBL
Second Forestry Project
(Cr. 1400-NEP)
Per Ha Economic Crop Budget
(Pulses)
Year 1985   Year 1990   Year 1995
Seeds                               2.5
Price(NRs/kg)b/                      21
Seed Costs                                           52.5         52.5         52.5
Labor (md)                            5
Labor Cost(NRs/md)a/                 17              85.0         8o.0         85.0
Animal Draft (pd)                     2                                                                               w
Animal Costsa(NH)                    45              90.0          10.0        90.0
Total Production Costs(NRs)                         227.5        227.5       227.5
Productiorn(kg)                      30
Price(NRs/kg)b/                      11
Production Value(NRs)                               400.0        400.0       400.0
Net Production Value (NRs)                          172.5        172.5        172.5
a/ Market wage rate adjusted by CF of 0.68.
b/ Financial price adjusted by SCF of 0.90.
I P.
0. F-.



34
NEPAL: Second Forestrv Project
Appencix 1: In-Country Training Courses and Workshops
Appendix 1
In-Country Training Courses and Workshops
1.        Forest Management Training, 12 Participants, Hetauda/Rautahat,
November 19-23, 1990.
2.        Environmental Awareness Campaign, Participants  (schools,  campuses,
community members), Hetauda, October 21 - November 2, 1990).
3.        Permaculture Training, 12 Participants, Hetauda, Sept. 17-20, 1990.
4.        Community Forestry Facilitator Training,  14 Participants,  Hetauda,
August 21-29, 1990.
5.        Pre-Service Training for Facilitators Non-Formal Education Programme,
23 Participants, Hetauda, August 1990.
6.        Western Regional DFO Workshop;  Chitwan, July 12, 1990.
7.        Eastern Regional DFO Workshop, Biratnagar, July 8, 1990.
8.        Central Regional DFO Workshop, Hetauda, July 6, 1990.
9.        Environmental  Protection  Training,   26  Participants   (farmers),
Manahari, July 2-7, 1990.
10.       Environmental Protection Training, 21 Participants (farmers) Manahari,
June 26 - July 1, 1990.
11.       Forest  Protection  Committee  Chairman  Workshop,  32  Participants,
Hetauda, June 13-14, 1990.
12.       SFDP training for nurseries and agro-forestry (7 farmers), April 27 -
May 3, 1990, Manahari, Makwanpur District.
13.       SFDP training for nurseries and agro-forestry (18 farmers), April 16 -
22, 1990, Manahari, Makwanpur District.
14.       Stove Installers Training for Pilot Stove Programme, (12 women), April
1990, Sarawata and Judibela Panchayats, Rautahat District.
15.       Agro-forestry in the Terai Seminar, 39 Participants, Hetauda,
March 21 -           23, 1990.
16.       Forest  Motivator/Stove  Promoter  Training  for  Community  Forestry
Activities, 15 Participants, Hetauda, February 25 - March 3, 1990.



35
NEPAL: Second Forestry Project
Appendix 1: in-Country Training Courses and Workshops
17.       District Level Nursery Naike Training, 10 Districts, January - March
1990 .
18.       Forestry Workshop for Peace Corps Volunteers, 7 Participants, Chitwan,
December 8, 1989.
19.       Seed Collection Training (13 Participants),   November 26 - December
1, 1989, Hetauda with National Tree Seed Project.
20.       Assistant Forest Officers Planning Workshop/In-Country Study Tour, 14
Participants, September 24 - October 2, 1989.
21.       Central Regional DFO Workshop, Hetauda, September 22, 1989.
22.       Eastern Regional DFO Workshop, Biratnagar, September 19, 1989.
23.       Training/Orientation  Course  for  Assistant  Rangers  on  Community
Forestry Development (15 Participants) August 27 - September 13, 1989,
Kathmandu (Training Wing) and Hetauda.
24.       Agro-forestry Training for Junior Technical Assistants of the SFDP,
7 Participants,  August  20  - 25,  1989,  Birendra  Nagar,  Chitwan
District.
25.       Workshop for Forest Motivators on Community Forestry Development, 12
Participants, Hetauda, June 11-16, 1989.
26.       Pradhan Pancha Workshop, Hetauda, March 3-4, 1989.
27.       District Level Nursery Naike Training, 16 Districts, December 1988 -
March 1989.
28.       Training of Trainers for Nursery Naike Training,  17 Participants,
Hetauda, November 20-30, 1988.
29.       Stove Promoter Training, 14 Participants, Hetauda, July 1988.
30.       Stove Promoter/Forest Motivator Training, 20 Participants, Hetauda,
May 25-31, 1988.
31.       High School Headmasters Forestry Workshop,  4 Participants, Hetauda,
May 1988 (2 days).
32.       Nursery Naike Training, 26 Participants, Parsa District March 7-16,
1988.
33.       Eastern Regional DFO/AFO Trainer's Training Meeting, 11 Participants
(K. B. Karki, G. B. Mathema, Ambika Gautam, K. Khanal, R. B. Dangi,



36
NEPAL: Secona Forestry Project
Appendix 1: In-Country Training Courses ana Workshops
Krishna Fokharel, M. Chaudhari, S. Koirala, W. G. Wunder, P. Van Meer,
Bimal Chapagain), Biratnagar, November 23 - 27, 1987.
34,       Attached Forest Officer Workshop, AFOs from 14 Districts, Hetauda, May
18-21, 1987.
35.       Stove Promoter Training, 14 Participants, Hetauda, June 1986.
36.       Stove Promoter Training, 13 Participants, Chitwan, May 1986.
37.       Nursery Naike Training (Jhapa, Morang, Sunsari), Sunsari, March 1986
(2 weeks).
38.       Nursery Naike Training (Sarhari, Dhanusha, Mahottari, Bara, Parsa,
Makwanpur), Hetauda, February 1986 (2 weeks).
39.       Nursery Naike Training,  (Chitwan,  Rupandehi, Kapilbastu),  Bhaluhi,
Rupandehi, January 1986 (2 weeks).
40.       Nursery Naike Training (Sunsari, Morang, Jhapa), Salakpur, Morang,
January 1986 (2 weeks).
41.       Nursery   Naike   Training,   20  Participants   (Dhanusha,   Sarlahi,
Mahottari), Dhanusha, November 1985 (2 weeks).
42.       Nursery  Naike  Training,  18  Participants  (Kapilbastu,  Rupandehi,
Nawalparasi), Bhaluhi, Rupandehi, November 1985 (2 weeks).
43.       Nursery Naike  Training,  18 Participants  (Makwanpur,  Bara,  Parsa,
Rautahat, Chitwan), Hetauda, October 1985 (2 weeks).



37
NEPAL: Secona Forestrv Proiect
Appenoix 2: Publications
Appendix 2
Publications
On-Farm Forestry Manual, N. N. Mishra/M. R. Joshi/P. T. Evans, 1990.
2.        Canal Bank Plantation Status Report, Y. B. Thapa/S. P. Joshi, 1990.
3.        Block Plantation Status Report, Y. B. Thapa/S. P. Joshi, 1990.
4.        Poplar Production Manual, C. G. Arendt, 1990.
5.        Poplar Programme Status Report, C. G. Arendt, 1990.
6.        Nursery Extension Center Manual, N. N. Mishra/M. R. Joshi/P. T. Evans,
1990 .
7.        Proceedings of Seminar:  Agro-Forestry in the Terai, P. T. Evans/
M. R. Joshi, 1990.
8.        Guidelines for User Groups, D. D. Bhatta, 1990.
9.        TCFDP Status Report, D. D. Bhatta, 1990.
10.       Planning Framework for Forestry Development Activities, P. T. Evans/
M. R. Joshi, 1990.
11.       On-Farm Agro-Forestry Recommendations, P. T. Evans/M. R. Joshi, 1990.
12.       Taungya Intercropping Recommendations, P. T. Evans, 1990.
13.       Taungya Farmers of Tamagadhi, P. T. Evans, 1990.
14.       Agro-Forestry Status Report, P. T. Evans/M. R. Joshi, 1990.
15.       Pruning Guidelines for Dalbergia sissoo in Terai Forestry Plantations,
W. B. Wunder, 1989.
16.       Nursery Programme Status Report, P. T. Evans/M. R. Joshi, 1990.
17.       Farm Forestry Survey (2 Districts), A. Paudyal, 1990.
18.       Canal Bank Plantations - Status Report, Y. B. Thapa/S. P. Joshi, 1990.
20.       Block Plantation - Status Report, Y. B. Thapa/S. P. Joshi, 1990.
21.       On-Farm Agro-Forestry in Chitwan, J. Fields, 1990.



38
>JEPAL: Second Forestry Project
Appendix 2: Publications
22.       A Study on the Impact and Effectiveness of Insert Stoves in the Terai,
K. M. Sulpya, 1989.
23.        Rautahat Forest Management Plan:  5 Year Working Cycle, C. G. Arendt,
1989.
24.        Rautahat Forest Management Plan, M. Bennett, 1989.
25.       Forest Inventory Report  for Rautahat District,  J. K. Sorgedrager,
1989.
26.        Baseline Survey Report for Rautahat District, J. K. Sorgedrager, 1989.
27.        Natural Forest Regeneration in the Chitripani Panchayat Protected
Forest of the Makwanpur District of Nepal, F. M. J. Ohler, 1989.
28.        Forest Resource Development in the Tamagadhi Forest Block of the Bara
District of Nepal, F. M. J. Ohler, 1989.
29.        Community Forestry Private Planting Survey, P. T. Evans, 1989.
30.       Community  Forestry  Private  Planting  Survey  in  Chitwan  District
Panchakanya (Case Study), Mary Blasing, 1989.
31.        Stove Programme Status Report, K. M. Sulpya, 1989.
32.        Nursery Programme Status Report, P. T. Evans/M. R. Joshi, 1989.
33.        Farm Forestry Survey (6 Districts), P. T. Evans, 1989.
34.       Chitwan Private Planting Survey, Mary Blasing, 1988.
35.        Nawalparasi Farm Forestry Report, E. L. Klein/D. W. Van Der Wal, 1988.
36.       Nepali Foresters Study Tour to Europe Report, G. D. Joshi, 1988.
37.       Nursery Techniques for Dalbergia sissoo, TCFDP, 1989.
38.        Nursery Techniques for Teak, TCFDP, 1989.
39.        Community Forestry Private Planting Survey Nawaiparasi District (Case
Study), E. L. Klein/D. W. Van Der Wal, 1988.
40.        Introduction to Cassia siamea, TCFDP, 1988.
41.        Introduction to Gmelina arborea, TCFDP, 1988.
42.        Introduction to Shorea robusta, TCFDP, 1988.



39
NEPAL: Second Forestry Project
Appendix 2: Publications
43.        Introduction to Albizia lebbeck, TCFDP, 1988.
44.        Introduction to Acacia catechu, TCFDP, 1988.
45.        Introduction to Artocarpus lakoocha, TCFDP, 1988.
46.        Introduction to Morus alba, TCFDP, 1988.
47.        Introdution to Melia azedarach, TCFDP, 1988.
48.        Introduction to Cassia fistula, TCFDP, 1988.
49.        Introduction to Improved Cook Stoves, TCFDP, 1988.
50.        Nepali Foresters Study Tour to Korea and the Philippines,
U. B. Shrestha, 1987.
51.        Thinning Guidelines for Pine Plantations in Chitripani,  R. Kreeft,
1987.
52.        Poplar Cultivation in Nepal, M. Viart, 1987.



40
PROJECT DATA SHEET
hnp
* Date: 4 May, 1993.
- Name: T. Lonavisavaoanicn
Rilport Nio-:                Country/FAO Code:             Finani inS ho_s            Coslc  24          USS
68/93 CP-NEP.44    |NEPAL/8NEPAT09PPCR01            IDA                        FE!3                s
TTTE  NEPAL - SECOND  FCRESTRY PROJECT (Cr.1400-NEP)
Date: 4 Mav, 1993.         | Sub-Seoor FORESTRY                                       Type: PCR
SystCode:                                                                             Language: English
MIASSION MBEMBERS:   T. Lohavisavapanicn and M. Johnson, FAO/CP.
Date of Field Visrt   March 1993.
Main Feartures/Caractstigues
Objevea4/Cjebfs
(f) increase suoplies of fuelwood, timber. pcies and fodder:
(ii) promote people's particication in planting and forest management activities:
(iii) ponularize and distribute improved cooking stoves to conserve fuel.
C>tpOnts/CotTpoan1
(a)    establishing 13,650 ha of community, strip and agro-forestry piantation and demonstration woodlots,
(b)    improving 35=  ha of natural forests;
(c)    distnbutng 32 million seedlings to farmers for planting 12,500 ha on privately owned land.
(d)    distributing 20.0C0 improved stoves.
(e)    Programme development, including training of farmers and forestry staff. consultant services and researcn.
- Dation/D ur6e: 9 years
C AOstCoOt  (topi million S) 11                                                   FE:   -
- No. Beneficiaries/Nombre de beneficiaires: N.A
- Cost per benefu=y/fC4ot par b6fficiaire: NA
- Aia/Supewllde: 23,765 ha
- Got per ha/CoOt par hectar,: 463/ha
- Main crsps/P ncspal.s ulbjturs  Forests
- Main beneffts/Prncipaux b6n6ficxs-
- Ec ft of Pelsim/Taux de rentahbiit:       12%    SAR estimate 27%
Subict of oeneraJ intefest/Suiets dinttret q6n4ral:                                   Ref.       Page No.:
1.     Project design                                                                 Para.42       3
2.     Community forestry                                                             Paras.5.12-5.13  6-7
3      Project Impact                                                                 Paras.6.1-6.3   11-12
KEY-WOFRSCMOTS-CLES.    penaing/en attente
Sustainaoility



