Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4353-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
June 8, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Nepalese Rupee (NR) 14.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADBN    -       Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AF      -       Assistant Forester
AO      -       Attached Officer
AU      -       Afforestation Unit
CCF     -       Chief Conservator of Forests
CDO     -       Chief District Officer
CFAD    -       Community Forestry and Afforestation Division
CFDTP   -       Community Forestry Development and Training Project
CFO     -       Community Forestry Officer
CFU     -       Community Forestry Unit
CR      -       Community Ranger
DCCF    -       Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests
DDP     -       District Development Plan
DFO     -       Divisional Forest Officer
FAO     -       Food and Agriculture Organization
FCN     -       Fuelwood Corporation of Nepal
FD      -       Forest Department
FI      -       Institute of Forestry
FM      -       Forest Motivator
FPDB    -       Forest Products Development Board
FR      -       Forest Rangers
GDP     -       Gross Domestic Product
GNP     -       Gross National Product
.IMG    -       His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB     -       International Competitive Bidding
LCB     -       Local Competitive Bidding
LDO     -       Local Development Officer
MEDU    -       Motivation and Education Unit
MEU     -       Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MFTW    -       Ministry of Forest Training Wing
MPLD    -       Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development
MFSC    -       Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation
NPC     -       National Planning Commission
NPV     -       Net Present Value
ODA     -       Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PF      -       Panchayat Forest
PO      -       Plantation Offices
PPF     -       Panchayat Protected Forest
SCF     -       Standard Conversion Factor
SIU     -       Stove Improvement Unit
SP      -       Stove Promoter
TCN     -       Timber Corporation of Nepal
TCFPU   -       Terai Community Forestry Project Unit
USAID   -       United States Agency for International Development
VDP     -       Village Development Plan
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






-ii-
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.      INTRODUCTION .............................................                1
I. BACKGROUND..                                                                   1
A. The Panchayat System of Government.                                    2
B. Forestry in Nepal.                                                     3
The Sector.                                                      3
Importance to the Economy.                                       4
Policy for Forestry Development.                                 6
Forestry Institutions.                                           6
Forestry Training.                                               7
Forestry Projects.                                               8
III. THE PROJECT.                                                                9
A. General Description.                                                   9
Project Phasing .....................................   11
B.  Detailed Features ......................................   12
Nurseries and Planting Materials ....................   12
Planting and Tending ................................   13
Panchayat Forests ...................................   14
Tree Planting on Private Land .......................   15
Strip Plantations ...................................   16
Demonstration Woodlots ..............................   16
Forest Department Agro-forestry Plantations .........   17
Forest Improvement ..................................   17
Support for Forestry Department .....................   18
Forestry Research ...................................   21
Improved Stoves .....................................   22
Monitoring and Evaluation ...........................   23
Forestry Training ...................................   23
Forestry Development Planning .......................   25
Technical Assistance ................................   25



-iii-
IV.      COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ...............................                    27
A.  Cost Estimates .........................................   27
B.  Financing ..........................................                        28
C.  Procurement and Disbursement ...........................   28
D. Accounts and Audit. .30
V.       ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ................................   30
Project Coordination ...................................    30
Forestry and Agro-forestry .............................   31
Improved Stoves ........................................    32
Forestry Research ......................................   33
Training ..........................................                        33
National Forestry Development Plan ...............                         33
VI.      PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND COST RECOVERY ......................   34
Production and Yields ..................................   34
Markets ..........................................                         34
Distribution of Produce ................................   35
Financial Results ......................................    35
Cost Recovery ..........................................   35
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS .36
Benefits and Beneficiaries .36
Economic Analysis and Rates of Return .37
Project Risks .38
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS .39



-iv-
ANNEXES
I.    Forestry Sector Background Information
Table 1 - Main Physical Forestry Targets in Sixth Plan
Table 2 - Forestry Sector Revenue and Expenditure
Table 3 - Forestry Royalty Rates
Table 4 - Current International and Bilateral
Assistance in Forestry
Table 5 - Departments of Ministry of Forest and
Soil Conservation
Table 6 - Civil Works at Institute of Forestry, Hetauda and
Pokhara
II.   Project Costs
Table 1 - Project Component bv Time
Table 2 - Farm, Institutional and Panchayat Plantings
Table 3 - Road and Canalside and Riverbank Plantings
Table 4 - Demonstration Woodlots
Table 5 - Promotion and Distribution of Improved Stoves
Table 6 - Incremental Staff
Table 7 - Vehicles and Equipment
Table 8 - Building, Furniture, and Fittings
Table 9 - Nursery Construction
Table 10 - State Agro-Forestry Plantations
Table 11 - State Agro-Forestry Nursery Construction Costs
Table 12 - Improvement of Natural Forests
Table 13 - Research Operational Costs
Table 14 - Training
Table 15 - Technical Assistance and Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 16 - Road Construction and Fire Protection
Table 17 - University and Training Wing Construction
Table 18 - Summary Account by Time
Table 19 - Summary Account by Project Component
Table 20 - Community Forestry Plantation Program
Table 21 - State Forestry Plantations Nursery Production Costs



-V-
III.  Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 1  - Yields by Ha per Component
Table 2  - Forestry Output Shares
Table 3  - Financial and Economic Prices
Table 4  - Financial Price for Fuelwood
Table 5  - Economic Price for Fuelwood
Table 6  - Financial Prices of Sawlogs
Table 7  - Economic Prices of Sawlogs
Table 8  - Financial and Economic Prices of Poles
Table 9  - Economic Prices of Fertilizer
Table 10 - Agricultural Activity on One Hectare of
Agro-Forestry
Table 11 - Agricultural Activity on One Hectare of
Agro-Forestry (Financial Input/Output)
Table 12 - One Hectare Financial Flow to Private
Plantings and Agricultural Activity
Table 13 - Economic Costs and Benefit Stream by Component
Table 14 - Economic Costs and Benefits by Type
Table 15 - Switching Values
IV. Implementation Schedule
V. Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
VI. Chart 24655 - Proposed Organization Chart
VII. List of Materials Available in Project File
MAP - IBRD 16908 - Project Area



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In order to remedy the deteriorating forestry situation in
Nepal, His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG), together with IDA and
several bilateral aid agencies, has embarked upon a program of reforesta-
tion and forest improvement. Initial efforts were concentrated in the
north (Hills), where a reforestation project is now operating in each
administrative district. As part of its strategy for development, HMG has
now decided to pay increased attention to the forestry needs of the
southern plains (Terai), where shortage of fuelwood supply is becoming
critical. Together with the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, HMG has
prepared a report entitled "Nepal Terai Forestry Project", which forms the
basis for its request for IDA assistance in the financing of a forestry
project in the eastern Terai. The proposed project is in line with the
objectives and priorities of HMG's Sixth Development Plan. This report is
based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission consisting of A. J.
Pritchard, R. Moreno (IDA); and F. B. Armitage and N. Chatterjee (consult-
ants), which visited Nepal in November/December 1982.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Nepal is landlocked between China and India.  It is divided into
three parallel ecological zones running east-west: the Terai Plain, an
extension of the Gangetic Plain of India; the Hills, actually the
foothills of the Himalayas, ranging from 500 m to 4,000 m in elevation;
and the Himalayan Mountains to the north. These three zones account for
17%, 68% and 15% of the total area (140,800 sq km), respectively. Rivers
and streams, running north-south, cut the Hills into isolated areas and
varying microclimatic conditions provide a range of environments for plant
growth, depending on elevation, aspect, cloud cover, slope, etc.
2.02      Nepal's population, 96% of which is rural, is currently
estimated at 15 M and is increasing at a rate of 2.7% annually. About 44%
of the population lives in the Terai, where a higher annual rate of
population increase (4.1%) is partially due to migration from the Hills
and India. GNP per capita in Nepal, at about US$156, is one of the lowest
in the world.
2.03      Agriculture dominates the country's economy, providing a
livelihood to over 90% of the population and generating about two-thirds
of GDP and 60% of all exports. The major crops are paddy, maize, and
wheat. Eighty percent of the cultivated land in Nepal is in the Terai
region, in particular the eastern Terai. The national average holding of
arable land is about 0.43 ha/family, but in the Terai the mean landholding
is 1.8 ha/family. Possibilities for expanding agricultural land in the



-2-
Terai are now limited, since the forests which grew on the relatively
fertile alluvial Terai soils have already been converted to arable farm-
lands. The remaining natural forest is on coarse sands and gravel (bhabar
soils) which are unsuitable for sustained agricultural production. Live-
stock play an important role in the way of life of rural Nepal and animal
products form an integral part of the subsistence diet. Cow dung is the
major source of manure but in regions such as the eastern Terai, where
fuelwood is scarce, it is also used as fuel.
A. The Panchayat System of Government
2.04      Administratively, Nepal is divided into five development
regions.  Each of these comprises a section of the country, running north
to south, containing mountain, hill and Terai areas. Each development
region is divided into either two or three development zones, which are
further divided into districts. The districts contain varying numbers of
town and village panchayats (the range is from 38 to 104 in the eastern
Terai) and there are usually nine wards (the smallest socioeconomic units)
in each. The ward consist of about two hamlets.
2.05      The panchayat system of government is a partyless system derived
from the traditional village council of elders. It includes political and
development organizations and is structured in three tiers. The lowest
political level is the village panchayat or, for areas with a population
of 10,000 or more, a town panchayat. The next level is the district
panchayat. The highest level is the national panchayat, whose 140 members
are either elected by the people or appointed by His Majesty the King.
2.06      The Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development (MPLD) is
responsible for operating the panchayat system. The Chief District
Officer (CDO) belonging to MPLD, besides being responsible for law and
order, is also the administrative head of all functionaries of government
line ministries working at the district level. A Local Development
Officer (LDO), subordinate to the CDO, is responsible for implementing
district development plans (DDP). These officers operate a district
secretariat which also functions as the secretariat to the district
panchayat.
2.07      The policy of HMG is to encourage the people's participation in
development, by tranferring to the district and village panchayats,
responsibility and accountability for development programs. Based on the
overall objectives and policies for development set by cabinet, the
resources available, estimated implementation capabilities, and priorities
set by the district panchayat, village development plans (VDP) are formu-
lated each year by a series of consumer (subject matter) committees con-
sisting of panchayat residents. Assistance is provided by a service
center, established by HMG as a branch of MPLD in the village, in for-
mulating and evaluating VDP, advising on technical and financial matters,



-3-
evaluating progress and disseminating information. The VDP are submitted
to the relevant district panchayat plan formulation committee (PFC) of
which there are five - agriculture and irrigation; works and maintenance;
industry, forestry and soil conservation; health and population; and
education. VDP are incorporated into DDP at a meeting of all PFC called
by LDO. Supervision of implementation of VDP and DDP is provided by a
district supervision committee.
2.08      The district panchayat allocates funds to the various projects
that have been approved. However, until recently, the flow of funds was
through the line agencies, and the panchayats were bypassed. Funds are
now released on a quarterly basis to the district offices of the line
ministries, after authorization has been received from the department
concerned, through District Account Control Offices which are under the
office of the Financial Controller. Under this system, the line ministry
remains accountable for funds received but the process of disbursement has
been improved. The initial release of funds in any year is contingent
upon the Controller receiving a statement of expenditure from the preced-
ing year. Final release requires receipt of the annual audit.
B. Forestry in Nepal
The Sector
2.09      The present area under forests in Nepal is estimated at 3.8 M ha
(2.9 M ha in the Hills, 0.9 M ha in the Terai). Forests above an altitude
of 2600 m consist mainly of conifers, with some hardwoods; much of this
forest is overmature and inaccessible. The forests in the Hills, lying
between 2600 and 300 m, vary considerably and are scattered in patches.
In general, fir and oak predominate at higher altitudes, gradually giving
way to chir pine, Prunus, Castanopsis, Shirma, and Alnus at medium eleva-
tions, and ultimately to sal, a hardwood. In the Terai (below 300 m)
mixed hardwood forest, mainly sal and asna, is found, which contains no
softwood species (see Project File, Item 1). Population pressure and
constant increased demand for arable land and forest products have caused
an estimated reduction in forest cover of 40% in the last 15 years. Many
of the remaining forest blocks, particularly in the Terai, are of very low
quality, having been logged in earlier years with removal of the best
merchantable stems followed by indiscriminate burning, over-grazing and
browsing, as well as illegal removal of fuelwood and poles.
2.10      The rate of forest destruction significantly increased after the
nationalization of forests in 1957 when villagers, believing the govern-
ment had appropriated their property and removed their rights of free
access to, and use of the forests, ceased to apply traditional rules for
forest management and proceeded to collect fuelwood, timber, and fodder
indiscriminately. The employment of forest guards and the prosecution of
those caught illegally removing forest produce failed to reverse the trend



-4-
and HMG, realizing that the reintroduction of community responsibility for
forests was the only way of preventing their total destruction, has
encouraged private planting and community owned and managed forests. This
policy has been successful in the Hills where the village populations are
homogenous and stable but has yet to be tested in the Terai.
2.11      The forest areas now remaining in the Terai are limited to the
zone of bhabar soils and the slopes of the Churia Hills. Where these
areas adjoin agricultural land, there is heavy over-grazing by domestic
stock and all small trees and undergrowth have been removed, mostly for
fuelwood, leaving the forest heavily degraded. Behind this degraded zone,
the forest is usually in reasonable condition and capable of being managed
productively, provided it can be protected. The cost of establishing and
maintaining adequately staffed forest stations for this purpose would
exceed the returns that could reasonably be expected from these partially
exploited forests which, in the absence of protection, will gradually but
inevitably be destroyed. Thus, effective protection and management of the
better quality forest blocks can only be carried out in cooperation with
the local inhabitants, and provided that sufficient trained staff work and
live close to these areas. Moreover, the recent HMG announcement that
no further conversion of forest land to agricultural settlement would be
allowed, indicates that development plans for the surviving forest areas
can now be made with some reasonable assurance of success provided that
the local population can be convinced of the long-term necessity to main-
tain the productive forests and that they themselves agree to cooperate
with the Forest Department (FD) in conservation measures.
2.12       Land Ownership.  The ownership of all forest land in Nepal was
vested in HMG until 1977 when legislation provided for the allocation of
forest land to panchayat management in the categories of Panchayat Forest
(PF)(bare land for reforestation), and Panchayat Protected Forest
(PPF)(existing forest for protection and management). In the Terai,
virtually all remaining forests are classified as government forest
reserve, with demarcated boundaries. In contrast to the Hills, only
limited land is available for use as PF in the Terai.
Importance to the Economy
2.13      Early forestry activities in Nepal were concentrated on the
exploitation of the highly valuable sal (Shorea robusta) forests in the
Terai. With the depletion of the sal forests the direct annual revenue
from the forests has now fallen to less than 5% of total national revenue.
The amounts of public revenue and expenditure within the forestry sector
for the four fiscal years 1976/77 to 1979/80 are shown in Annex I, Table 2.
Because of traditional concessions to village communities living near the
forest areas, the bulk of forest products, including local construction
timbers, are being collected free of cost or at nominal prices. From the
forest reserves, major forest products are sold either on a royalty basis



-5-
or by auction. Minor forest products are subject to the payment of
license fees. For PPF, 75% of any income accrues to the panchayats and
25% to HMG. Scales of royalties and fees are given in Annex I, Table 3.
2.14      Timber export to India, which in recent years accounted for 20%
of the value of Nepal's exports, has now been prohibited by law. The
trade gap has widened steadily but has so far been covered by increased
earnings from tourism and foreign aid disbursements.
2.15      Consumption.  The average annual requirement for fuelwood has
been estimated at 1 m3/person in the Hills and 0.85 m3 for the Terai where
less heating is required. National requirements for domestic fuelwood are
therefore about 13 M m3/year. Alternative sources of energy, such as
kerosene, gas and electric power are either too expensive or are unavail-
able to the bulk of the population. In many areas, the shortage of fuel-
wood forces the rural population to burn animal dung and crop residues as
fuel. Quantities of dung consumed are small, relative to fuelwood and
were estimated at 250,000 tons for 1974/75. However, if the present rate
of forest destruction continues, the use of crop residues and dung for
fuel could rise substantially. In the eastern Terai, 28% of the domestic
fuel requirement is now met by cow dung and towards the Indian border the
proportion can be as high as 50%. Surveys indicate that even if the
supply of fuelwood were increased, some 20% of fuel needs of traditional
dung-burning areas would still be met by cow dung, since its use is
preferred for certain types of cooking practices such as slow-cooking of
milk. Increases in the supply of fuelwood would therefore lead to only
limited reduction in the use of cow dung in these areas.
2.16      In order to meet the demand for fuelwood and other major forest
products, Nepal will require about 1.3 M ha of productive forest by the
end of this century. As part of this total, the 1978 Sector Review 1/
recommended that the existing natural forest estate should be augmented by
an annual planting target in the Terai (the only suitable region for
large-scale plantations) of 20,000 ha over a 20-year period to give a
total of 400,000 ha. The review indicated that the plantation target
could be attained if the problem were approached from the village (ward)
level with each village and individual farmer undertaking a modest plant-
ing program together with the establishment of large-scale government
plantations and the management of natural forests, the latter especially
to supply urban demands for fuelwood, timber and other forest products.
2.17      The annual per capita demand for fuelwood in the eastern Terai
is about 0.65 m3 (500 kg). The current population in the project area
(see para. 3.02) is 4.7 M, with a projected population of about 8 M by the
1/ Nepal Forestry Sector Review (1952-NEP), 1978; p. 23.



-6-
end of the century. The fuelwood demand for such a population could
therefore be as high as 5 M m3/year, equivalent to the annual yield from
more than 300,000 ha of well managed plantations of fast-growing species.
Policy for Forestry Development
2.18      The guidelines for forestry development in Nepal were set out
by the National Planning Commission (NPC) in the Sixth Five-Year Plan
(1980/85). This plan gives priority to community forestry development and
afforestation in the Hills; to development projects which emphasize
peoples- participation in the protection and development of forests, and
to projects which increase availability of forest products. The main
physical targets to be achieved in the Sixth Five-Year Plan period are
given in Annex I, Table 1. At present, no overall national forestry
strategy exists for the achievement of these targets.
Forestry Institutions
2.19      Overall responsibility for forestry and natural resource conser-
vation is vested in the Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation (MFSC).
Within MFSC there are five departments, three companies and three
semi-autonomous corporations of direct relevance to the proposed project.
(Annex VI, Table 5). It has been proposed by HMG that the three corpora-
tions, (the Timber Corporation (TCN), the Fuelwood Corporation (FCN), and
the Forest Products Development Board (FPDB)) be amalgamated to form a new
body, probably to be entitled the Forestry Corporation, with respon-
sibilities for timber harvesting, forest industries and some reforesta-
tion. This arrangement will streamline forestry harvesting operations and
marketing, and the amalgamation of staff and facilities will reduce the
costs of administration.
2.20      About 11,000 persons (including some 1,700 army troops and armed
guards) are employed by MFSC; of these 80% are employed by FD and the
three corporations TCN, FCN, and FPDB. The next largest department is
National Parks and Wildlife with 10% of the manpower. The third largest
is the Department of Soil Conservation and Watershed Management with 2%.
2.21      Under the management and technical direction of the Chief Con-
servator of Forests (CCF), FD is responsible for the overall administra-
tion and management of the national forest estate. The territorial
organization of the FD consists of 9 major sub-divisions known as circles,
further divided into 40 divisions and 174 ranges.
2.22      In addition to the territorial divisions of the FD, a Community
Forestry and Afforestation Division (CFAD) has responsibility for the
development of community forests in the Hills and for the initiation of
large-scale plantation projects in the Terai. The Divisional Forest
Officers (DFO) are responsible for implementing CFAD's forestry programs,



-7-
but receive additional staff (Community Forestry Assistants) and support
from CFAD's five units, which are:
(a)  Community Forestry Unit (CFU), which is responsible for com-
munity forestry operations and related silviculture.
(b) Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU), which follows project
progress and assesses the socio-economic impact of the refores-
tation projects on the lives of the rural people.
(c) Motivation and Education Unit (MEDU), which carries out
forestry extension activities at village, district and national
level.
(d) Stove Improvement Unit (SIU), which carries out research,
development and distribution of improved cooking stoves for
more efficient use of fuelwood.
(e) Afforestation Unit (AU), which is responsible for afforestation
on Government lands and plays an important role in collecting
and distributing tree seed.
Forestry Training
2.23      Prior to 1981, there was no professional forestry course in
Nepal and forest officers were trained mainly at the Indian Forestry
Institute at Dehra Dun. In recent years it has been increasingly dif-
ficult for non-Indian nationals to gain admission there. Steps have now
been taken to reverse this unsatisfactory situation with the establishment
in Nepal of a 3-year degree course in forestry and soil and water conser-
vation. This course is now taught at the Institute of Forestry (FI),
Hetauda, but will be transferred to FI's Pokhara campusl/ where permanent
teaching facilities are being provided under the on-going IDA-assisted
Community Forestry Development and Training Project (CFDTP). The first
graduates from the course (planned annual output of 40) will be available
in mid-1984. Meanwhile, an average of about 10 Nepalese foresters will
continue to graduate from Dehra Dun for the next 3 or 4 years.
2.24      The training of forest technicians at the certificate level (a
2-year course) is conducted at FI. Certificate holders enter the forest
service in the rank of Assistant Ranger (AR). Forest Rangers (FR) were
originally trained by means of an additional one-year senior certificate
1/ It has been proposed that FI's Pokhara campus will be renamed; the
Institute of Renewable Natural Resources.



-8-
course available upon completion of the certificate course, but this has
been dropped and FR now receive the necessary additional training through
in-service training programs conducted by the Ministry of Forests Training
Wing (MFTW). The present annual intake of students for technical training
is 100 to 110.
2.25      Previously, training was oriented towards commercial exploita-
tion in the Terai, which was the most important forestry activity. With
the increasing importance of community forestry throughout the country,
and the need for large-scale plantations of fast-growing species in the
Terai, a reorientation of current forestry training towards community and
plantations forestry became of paramount importance for forestry develop-
ment in Nepal. This issue was addressed under CFDTP by the revision of
both in-service and training institute curricula.
Forestry Projects
2.26      International support for community forestry activities in Nepal
began in 1965 with the Trisuli Integrated Watershed Development Project
(UNDP/FAO). This type of activity has been expanded with support from
other international and bilateral agencies, and reforestation and rural
development projects now cover virtually all the hill districts. A list
of these various projects is given in Annex I, Table 4. Minor forestry
activities were included in the Rural Development Project (IDA Credit
617-NEP).
2.27      The Community Forestry Development and Training Project (IDA Cr.
1008-NEP). IDA's first major participation in the Nepal forestry sector
began with CFDTP, which is being implemented by CFAD in the Hills. This
project aims at increasing the supply of fuelwood in the hill areas by
establishing new plantations and rehabilitating degraded forests. In
spite of delays with procurement and disbursement, most of the planting
targets have been achieved. At the end of 1982, its second year, 268
nurseries and 1,810 ha of PF had been established and 660,000 seedlings
planted on private land. A total of 159 panchayats had become involved in
project activities and over 1 M people had been brought into contact with
the concepts and aims of social forestry. It is too early as yet to
assess the definitive lessons learned from the ongoing project. However,
some aspects have already become apparent within the limited two-year
period. Firstly, indications are that villagers are receptive to the
concept of community forestry and that this increases as contact with the
community forestry program grows. However, clarity with respect to both
ownership of forests and individual trees and rights to forest products is
of utmost importance in obtaining village and panchayat participation. To
this end, the proposed project seeks to ensure that rights of ownership to
planted trees are clearly defined before implementation (para. 3.19).
Secondly, it is evident that to obtain the support from the surrounding



-9-
population in forest protection, clear assurances must be given to vil-
lagers that they will be allowed to collect a share of the forest products
once plantings have matured. Both HMG and IDA recognize the important
role that technical assistance is playing in assisting the monitoring and
technical support aspects of CFDTP. Adequate provisions for technical
assistance have therefore been included in the proposed project. Thus,
the proposed project, appraised in this report, takes into account the
experiences of the ongoing CFDTP.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      Following CFDTP (para. 2.27), the project would be a second IDA
supported phase in the development of community forestry and forestry
training facilities in Nepal. The project would increase supplies of
fuelwood, poles, timber and fodder, in the eastern Terai, by establishing
PF, farm and other private plantations, strip plantations, woodlots, and
larger scale plantations; and by improving areas of natural forest. As a
fuelwood conservation measure the project would introduce, popularize, and
distribute improved cooking stoves. Training facilities would be expanded
to meet the additional need for technical and professional forestry staff.
Forestry research, field operations and planning activities would be
strengthened and training and study tours provided for FD staff.
3.02      The project area covers 20,000 sq km with a population of 4.7M
(about 30% of the total population of Nepal) and consists of 13
administrative districts in the eastern Terai, extending from Jhapa in the
east to Kapilbastu in the west. The districts of Saptari and Siraha have
been excluded since these are served by an Asian Development Bank project.
The project districts are included in 7 forest divisions (Map 16908) and
parts of 5 forest circles (see para. 2.21).
3.03      In the Terai, the ethnic diversity of the population (comprising
indigenous peoples augmented by immigrants from the Hills and India) tends
to retard the development of the community spirit necessary to carry out
panchayat based forestry projects. Because problems associated with mixed
communities may hinder rapid implementation of the planting program it has
been decided to set a relatively small target of 2,000 ha for PF plantings
during the project period. However, a nucleus of settlers from the Hills
exists in the project area who have a tradition of planting fodder trees
and are interested in participating in community forestry. The sociologi-
cal survey (Project File, Item 8) undertaken to provide baseline data for
the proposed project also indicates a positive individual attitude toward
social forestry concepts. Thus, all indications are that with the assis-
tance of MEDU, the above-mentioned problems should be overcome and full
cooperation should be achieved during project implementation.



-10-
3.04      During a six-year period, the project would:
(a)  Provide funds for staff, equipment, nurseries, civil works,
operating expenses and establishment costs for:
(i) 2,000 ha of Panchayat Forest;
(ii)  32 M seedlings for planting on private and institutionally
owned land;
(iii) the equivalent of 2,550 ha of strip plantations on
roadsides, canal banks, and river banks;
(iv)  2,200 ha of demonstration woodlots; and
(v) 5,900 ha of plantations of fast growing species, on land
presently under degraded forest, using agro-forestry
techniques.
(b)  Provide funds for staff, equipment and vehicles for the improve-
ment of 35,000 ha of natural forest.
(c)  Enlarge CFAD, the Forest Survey and Research Office, territorial
divisions and the Planning Division of MFSC, by providing funds
for staff, buildings, vehicles, equipment and operating expenses
for:
(i) directing and supervising nursery and plantation
programs;
(ii)  expanding forestry research activities;
(iii) designing, producing and distributing 20,000 fuel
efficient wood-burning stoves;
(iv)  monitoring and evaluating project implementation; and
(v) preparing a National Forestry Development Plan
(d)  Expand staff training opportunities by:
(i) providing funds for constructing teaching facilities
at the Institute of Forestry, Pokhara; at the Institute
of Forestry, Hetauda; and at the Ministry of Forests
Training Wing, Kathmandu;
(ii)  funding fees, travel and allowances for training
109 Assistant Rangers and 34 Forest Officers; and
(iii)  funding an in-service training program and costs of study
tours for professional and forestry extension staff.
(e)  Provide about 28 man-years of expatriate technical assistance and
8 manyears of local consultancy services for:
(i) a mid-term review of project progress;
(ii) establishment and management of community forestry
and agro-forestry nurseries and plantations;



-11-
(iii)  forestry research;
(iv)  in-service forest training;
(v) stove technology;
(vi)  preparation of a National Forestry Development Plan; and
(vii)  monitoring and evaluation surveys.
3.05      Direct planting by FD has been confined to strip plantations
(2550 ha) demonstration woodlots (2200 ha) and agro-forestry plantations
(5900 ha). This program is sufficient for providing a demonstration to
farmers and communities, and training for forest staff. Experience with
other projects in South Asia has demonstrated a high level of success with
private planting. In the proposed project, therefore, the aim would be
to plant 52% of seedlings on privately owned land.
3.06      Responsibility for implementing the community forestry,
agro-forestry, plantation, natural forestry improvement, stove distribu-
tion, study tour, overseas training, and in-service training components of
the project would be with the Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation.
The Tribhuvan University would be responsible for investments at the
educational institutions at Pokhara and Hetauda, and for certificate level
training courses.
Project Phasing
3.07      The proposed planting and forest improvement programs are sum-
marized below. The PF and demonstration woodlot planting programs are
based on the induction of an estimated 20 village panchayats into the
project in the first year and 50 in each subsequent year.
Table 3.1: PROJECT PLANTING AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
(ha)
Project Year
Forest Type                  1     2      3     4       5      6     Total
Private Planting
Farm Forestry           -    200    800  2,500  4,000  5,000  12,500
Institutional Woodlots  -      50    200    250    250    250   1,000
Panchayat Planting          -    200    300    500    500    500   2,000
Strip Plantations           -    200    400    650    650    650   2,550
Demonstration Woodlots      -    200    500    500    500    500   2,200
Agro-Forestry
Plantations              -     -     600  1,400  1,900  2,000   5,900
Total Plantations        -    850  2,800  5,800  7,800  8,900  26,150
Natural Forest Improvement   -  7,000  7,000  7,000  7,000  7,000  35,000



-12-
B. Detailed Features
Nurseries and Planting Material
3.08      Planting material would be distributed free of costs from FD,
village panchayat and private nurseries. This is in line with HMG's
objective of providing incentives for small farmers and communities to
take up tree planting in situations where most of the output to be
produced would be needed for domestic consumption and not for resale.
Experience in both Nepal and elsewhere has demonstrated that without such
incentives, farmers are unlikely to respond. Cost recovery for tree
seedlings could be introduced in a possible follow-up project in those
situations where larger farmers can produce surplus wood for resale. In
the proposed project, priority in seedling allocation would be given to
smaller farmers. CFAD, operating through FD's divisional organization,
would establish 220 village panchayat nurseries on the basis of about one
for each participating village panchayat, or about 30 per forest division.
These would be managed by the panchayat under the technical direction of
CFAD. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CFAD would make the
necessary production inputs (seed, pots, fertilizer, etc) available to the
village panchayat nurseries. In addition, 100 nurseries would be estab-
lished under private ownership. Of these private nurseries, 27 would be
used to provide the plants needed for FD strip plantations and demonstra-
tion woodlots and the remainder would produce seedlings for PF and plant-
ing on on privately owned land. The capacity of each nursery would be
about 60,000 potted plants with an average annual production of 48,000
after allowing for culls and failures. FD would also establish eight
large nurseries, one for each agro-forestry plantation scheme (para. 3.23)
and each with a production capacity of 580,000 seedlings annually. The
existing 25 range nurseries would be improved and would provide backup
support for private, village panchayat, and agro-forestry nurseries.
3.09      In keeping with FD policy to encourage private enterprise, the
project would assist in establishing private nurseries (para 3.08) by
providing necessary production inputs such as seed, plastic pots, and
fertilizer to individual entrepreneurs. Nursery owners would be allowed
to defer payment for such production inputs until the sale of seedlings to
FD. Input costs, fixed at the time of provision, would then be deducted
from the seedling price which would be equivalent to FD nursery production
costs for seedlings. Under this arrangement, nursery owners would be
obligated to sell the seedlings produced to FD. The Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank of Nepal (ADBN) has expressed an interest in providing credit
for private nurseries, using lending criteria presently used for estab-
lishment of horticultural nurseries. At present ADBN has funds for this
purpose, but assurances were obtained at negotiations that HMG would make
adequate funds available through ADBN should additional finance to support
private forestry nurseries be required. Assurances were also abtained
that necessary production inputs would be furnished by FD to private



-13-
nurseries and seedlings purchased each year in the planting season, com-
mencing on May 1, 1984, at prices not less than the equivalent of produc-
tion costs of FD nurseries, less costs of production inputs.
3.10       Seed.  Arrangements for local procurement of good quality seed
to meet the requirements of the project do not yet exist. Constant
shortages of seed occur for species, such as sisoo, of which the foliage
and twigs are collected as fodder. Genetically improved seed stands and
orchards, designed in collaboration with the FD Forest Survey and Research
Office would be included in the agro-forestry plantation program. Until
the seed stands are in production, all seed would be provided through the
DFO who would either arrange for its collection by staff of panchayat,
range or agro-forestry plantation nurseries, or obtain it through CFAD's
seed section in Kathmandu which has been provided with large modern
facilities for collection and storage under an Australian aided project.
DFO would also "buy" selected seed trees in the project area so that they
can be protected to produce seed.
Planting and Tending
3.11      Planting pits would be aligned and dug before the onset of the
monsoon in May each year and, if considered necessary, the area would also
be fenced during this period (see para 3.13). Planting would commence in
June each year, coinciding with the onset of the rains. Fodder grasses
and legumes would be produced in PF, woodlots, institutional and strip
plantations from naturally regenerating indigenous species, but high
yielding fodder species would be planted between trees as seeds become
available either as a result of seed propagation programs at nurseries, or
by direct import from overseas.
3.12      Weeding.  Weeding would be essential for satisfactory survival
and growth, particularly in the first year. The amount of weeding
required thereafter would be minimal as villagers would collect grass from
planted areas and, in many instances, this would be sufficient to remove
weed competition.
3.13      Protection.  Once villagers have been motivated to participate
in social forestry programs and identify themselves with the forests
established, experience in the Hills has shown that protection is not a
problem. Villagers cooperate in controlling livestock grazing and comply
with the forest management procedures laid down in the forest management
plan, so that, in general, fencing is unnecessary. Where considered
essential, however, e.g. near recognized cattle paths, fences would be
built or live hedges planted. The project would provide labor and
materials to fence approximately 25% of the perimeter of PF, demonstration
woodlots and agro-forestry plantations.



-14-
Panchayat Forests
3.14      PF would be planted on 2,000 ha over the project period.  The
species used would be those suitable for fuelwood, fodder or fruit produc-
tion. A list of 32 possible species and details of planting density and
forest management are given in Project File, Item 2. Given the pressing
need for fuelwood and the technology available, it is probable that in the
early years of the project, the species selected would be those with which
the villagers are best acquainted, such as sissoo, eucalyptus and to a
lesser extent, teak. The Motivation and Education Unit (MEDU) and the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) of CFAD would arrange seminars,
meetings and field visits to target panchayats and provide necessary
visual aids and educational material to encourage the panchayat,
individual farmers and village institutions (schools, medical centers,
temples, etc.) to participate in the project. This approach has been
successful in the Hills and MEDU has produced useful manuals and teaching
aids which could be used in the Terai with only minor modification.
3.15      For initiating PF plantations, a panchayat forest committee
would be established in the village panchayat and would be responsible for
making an application to the DFO for participation in the project. After
approval by the DFO the proposal would be passed through the village and
district panchayat system.  At each district headquarters, the DFO would
act as secretary of the relevant district PFC; in this case the district
industry, forestry and soil conservation committee (para. 2.07). PFC
would include LDO, the chairmen of various district working committees, l/
as well as the chairman of the district panchayat. PFC would make recom-
mendations to the district panchayat on the technical feasibility of the
proposal, the priority level to be accorded, and a proposed date for
acceptance into the project. The final decision on the acceptance of the
proposal would be made by the district panchayat and for this, the
proposal must meet HMG's criteria, which are that it must provide direct
benefits to the public, increase production, use local techniques,
increase employment opportunities, be part of the Sixth Five-Year Plan and
protect the environment. In addition, CFAD requires that:
(i) the land to be planted is proven to be vacant, free from
dispute and available for plantations;
(ii) the forest management plan has been agreed by the village
panchayat (this will include details for the future arrangements
for the fair distribution of forest products which are likely
to differ between panchayats depending on the availability of
forest and local demands for its produce);
1/ Nepal Ex-Servicemen Organization, Nepal Labor Organization, and
Industry and Commerce.



-15-
(iii) a site for the nursery has been selected, and is
available and suitable;
(iv) there is a high level of need for fuelwood and fodder;
(v) evidence is available of the village panchayat's ability to
organize cooperative work (e.g. from other development projects);
(vi) the village panchayat is accessible and near a FD office; and
(vii) other village panchayats are in the vicinity which could be
influenced by the example of establishing PF.
3.16      After approval, areas would be demarcated by DFO and Circle
Conservators in agreement with village panchayats, FD and the Land Survey
Department. The suitability of demarcated areas for PF would be confirmed
by the CFO who would have previously assisted in preparing the forest
management plan, and explaining the nature and provisions of the agreement
to be entered into between the village panchayat and the CFAD. The
management plan and agreement would be based on the proforma developed for
the Hills (Project File, Item 2). The plan would include details of
sites; procedures for fuelwood, timber and fodder collection; planting;
protection; and distribution of produce.
3.17      Once the proposal has been formally agreed upon and DFO
informed, village panchayats would be assisted with implementation through
regular visits and supervision by CFAD and divisional community forestry
staff. Local labor would be recruited for forestry and nursery operations
and paid according to HMG rates. Seedlings, tools, fertilizer, and fenc-
ing materials would be provided under the project.
Tree Planting on Private Land
3.18      Villagers would be encouraged to plant trees on their own land
near the homestead or along the boundaries of their fields. These would
be mostly fodder trees, but some easily propagated fruit trees would also
be planted. The target would be to raise about 100 trees on 50% of the
farm holdings in the project area. This would be equivalent to 12,500 ha
of plantation and assuming an 85% survival rate would require about 30 M
seedlings. In addition, 2.0 M seedlings would be distributed for estab-
lishing woodlots on land belonging to institutions such as schools,
temples, hospitals, social clubs, etc. Seedlings would be provided free
of cost (para. 3.08) but small quantities of seed, e.g., enough to raise
100 seedlings, would be made available at panchayat nurseries to farmers
wishing to raise their own planting stock.
3.19    Because of misinterpretation and ignorance of forest rules,
farmers are uncertain of the ownership rights to trees planted on private
land. Prior to negotiations, FD provided a concise clarification of the
forest rules which can be used to assure farmers of their ownership of
trees planted by them on their holdings.



-16-
Strip Plantations
3.20      In the project area there are about 250 km of roads and more
than 300 km of canal banks and an unknown amount of land on river banks
available for plantation. Some of the land on roadsides and canal banks
has already been encroached by illegal settlement and its use for tree
plantations would now pose severe litigation and sociological problems.
It is estimated that the equivalent of about 2,550 ha of vacant land would
be used for strip plantations during the project period.
3.21      Strip plantations would be planted by local labor, paid and
supervised by community forestry staff (CF0 and CF). Forest watchers
would be employed to protect the strip plantations, but minor forest
products, e.g. grass, fruit, medical plants, would be available to the
local population free of charge. Prior to negotiations, FD entered into
agreements with the Ministry of Transport and Commnication and the Minis-
try of Water Resources, which permit FD to establish, manage and harvest
trees planted on roadsides, canal banks and river banks. A management
plan for each plantation would be drawn up in consultation with the vil-
lage panchayat concerned. This would contain procedures for establishing,
maintaining, protecting and harvesting the fuelwood, poles and timber
produced. Minor forest products (fodder, fruit, twigs, etc.) would be
made available to panchayat inhabitants free of cost. River bank land is
usually privately owned, but a continuous plantation is required to
protect the bank and plantations in small areas by private individuals
would be unlikely to be effective. CFAD would therefore organize and
estabish plantations designed to stabilize river banks, after agreements
had been reached with landowners and village panchayats regarding the
maintenance, protection and ownership of trees (Project File, Item 3).
Demonstration Woodlots
3.22      Throughout the Terai, but more specifically near remaining large
forest blocks, there are small isolated blocks of degraded forest suitable
for woodlots. Sites for woodlots to be established under the project
would be selected jointly by the village panchayat forestry committee and
DFO. This land would then be cleared by TCN (and where necessary, FCN),
and used for demonstration woodlots to be established under CFO supervi-
sion. CFO would arrange for planting and maintaining the woodlot for a
four-year period, employing local labor for this purpose. Thereafter,
protection would be the responsibility of the village panchayat. Manage-
ment and distribution of forest products would be in accordance with the
procedures outlined in paras. 3.11 to 3.13 and rules for operating PF
(para 3.16). Details of woodlot planting and management are given in
Project File, Item 4.



-17-
Forest Department Agro-Forestry Plantations
3.23      Two blocks of degraded forests, 1,000 ha or more in size would
be selected in each of four districts 1/ for conversion to plantations
using agro-forestry methods. Planting would begin in project year 3.
Fast-growing species would be planted to produce fuelwood and smaller
quantities of poles and sawlogs. The existing forest cover would be cut
by TCN and FCN. Residual trees and smaller stumps would be cleared by FD,
mainly by hand, but using agricultural tractors where necessary. There-
after, the land would be allocated in 0.5 ha lots to the landless,
preference being given to those engaged as forest laborers. It would be
used exclusively for agricultural cropping (mainly upland rice, maize,
wheat and mustard) for one year before being pitted and planted with trees
under the supervision of FD at the beginning of the second monsoon.
Intercropping would take place for a further two years. Cultivators would
be allocated 0.5 ha of newly cleared land each year so that from the third
year onwards and for as long as their agreement with FD remains valid,
cropping would take place simultaneously on three separate 0.5 ha areas.
The forest rotation would be on a 10-year harvesting cycle, after which
the area would again be divided into 0.5 ha lots and intercropping per-
mitted for three years. Details of these operations are given in Project
File, Item 5. Use of the land would be subject to a legal agreement
between FD and each cultivator which would define the rules for the
agro-forestry operation, including land tenancy arrangements and the
responsibilities of each party. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the format for this agreement would be furnished to the Association
for approval not later than December 31, 1984 and utilized from May 31,
1985 onwards. Under the proposed project, staff, staff housing, offices,
sheds, forest roads, a nursery, vehicles, a tractor and trailer and equip-
ment would be provided for each agro-forestry block.
Forest Improvement
3.24     Blocks of better quality natural forest would be managed through
silvicultural improvement operations which would include removal of dis-
eased trees and cutting climbing vines. Such blocks would be selected in
each of the seven forest divisions of the project area, wherever possible,
adjacent to other forestry operational areas for maximum convenience of
both protection and supervision of the harvesting of resulting produce.
Sawlogs would be removed by TCN and the remaining fuelwood made available
to local villagers. The cooperation of the panchayat forestry committees
would be sought to ensure that fuelwood headloads were collected only in
1/ Three of these have been tentatively identified in Bara, Chitwan and
Morang Districts.



-18-
the forest areas under active rehabilitation. Details of the forest
improvement program are given in Project File, Item 6.
Support for Forestry Department
3.25      Staff.  The community forestry (PF, private planting, strip
plantations and woodlots) and stove distribution programs would be imple-
mented in the Terai through CFAD, which is presently responsible for these
activities in the Hills. A Terai Community Forestry Project Unit (TCFPU)
would be established under CFAD to be responsible for community forestry
in the Terai in the same way that CPU (to be redesignated Hill Community
Forestry Project Unit) is responsible for community forestry in the Hills.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that TCFPU would be established,
and the post of Head of TCFPU created and then filled by an officer with
suitable qualifications and experience not later than 30 days after credit
effectiveness. The project would also finance three additional senior
staff posts for SIU, MEU and MEDU (para 5.02) and a post of Deputy Chief
Conservator of Forests (DCCF) for the overall direction and management of
the enlarged CFAD. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CFAD
would be maintained and that the post of Head of CFAD upgraded and filled
by an officer with qualifications, experience and TOR satisfactory to the
Association not later than 30 days after credit effectiveness.
3.26     CFAD was established under CFDTP, but too few support staff were
originally provided for its administration so that difficulties were
experienced with accounting procedures. These difficulties led to delays
in budget preparation and consequently to delays in release of funds from
the Controller's office. Recently, steps have been taken to improve the
situation by appointing 18 Accountants at divisional level and 2 more
accountant posts have been requested for CFAD headquarters. With these
appointments CFAD would have sufficient support staff for the proposed
project.
3.27      Special units for carrying out operations in the natural
forestry improvement program and establishment of large scale
agro-forestry plantations would be set up under the DFO and the circle
Conservators respectively (see Annex VI, Chart 24655). Incremental staff
would also be provided for forestry research and to the Planning Division
of MFSC for the preparation of a National Forestry Development Plan (para.
3.41). Details of incremental staff required under the proposed project
are given below:



-19-
Table 3.2: INCREMENTAL STAFF REQUIREMENTS
Staff                                   Number
Professional staff
Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests           1
Head of Terai Community Forestry
Project Unit                              1
Planning Officers, Silviculturists            3
Forest Officers                              31
Rangers                                       101
Assistant Rangers                               8
Forest Guards                                   5
Clerks                                         27
Accountants                                     8
Typists                                        12
Peons/Watchmen                                 41
Drivers                                        21
Tractor Operators                               9
Forest Motivators/Stove Promoters             293
Forest Watchers                               270
Field Supervisors                              53
3.28    The positions of DCCF and Head of TCFPU would be filled by promo-
tion.  The phasing of recruitment for other professional and technical
posts is given in Table 3.3, below:
Table 3.3 Staff Recruitment Phasing
Project Year
Year 1 Year 2  Year 3 Year 4  Total
Forest Officer Grade          13       15       5        1      34
Rangers and Asst. Rangers    27       53       28        1     109
3.29      FD has agreed that staff vacancies would be filled either by
secondment from territorial forestry divisions in the Terai or by new
trainees as they graduate from Hetauda (Diploma and Certificate holders),
or by those returning from overseas training (Dehra Dun, India or
Peshawar, Pakistan). It would be essential that recruitment into the
project be arranged so that there is a mix of experienced and new staff.
3.30      To relieve the strain on manpower resources that the demands of
the project would make, a number of technical and professional training
courses would be financed, equivalent to the number of new positions
created under the project (para. 3.39). On completion of these courses
trainees would either take those posts in the project temporarily filled



-20-
by staff on secondment or fill vacancies in the territorial divisions
resulting from such secondment.
3.31      Housing.  Much of the success of CFAD and FD activities would
depend on regular and frequent visits by field staff to village panchayats
and individual farmers, as well as supervision of plantation establishment
and subsequent tending, all of which would be scattered over wide areas.
It is, therefore, vital that field staff and their supervisors live near
to their work to enable them to function effectively. At present, housing
for rent in rural areas is limited and staff often live far from their
work relying on public transport. To help overcome this, the project
would construct housing units which would provide accommodation for 60% of
forestry field staff. However, the use of rented accommodation would be
encouraged wherever possible. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that HMG would ensure that field staff would live in the area
assigned for their operations and for this purpose would provide such
housing or rent allowances as necessary. Designs for houses to be con-
structed under the project would be in accordance with existing government
standards. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that land required
for the project would be acquired by HMG.
Table 3.4: HOUSING REQUIREMENTS
Unit Cost
NRs Thousand    No.
CFO                              189        4
CR                               113       46
Junior Staff                     139        4
Inspection Quarters               83        7
Plantation Officers              189        5
Rangers/Assistant Rangers         86       23
Bunk Houses                      166        8
Research Rangers                  83        3
Research Forest Guards            69        3
3.32      Transport.  It is important that staff be sufficiently mobile to
properly carry out their responsibilities.  To that end, the project would
provide the following vehicles:



-21-
Table 3.5:  VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS
Category                         Project Year                Total
1     2     3      4     5      6
Cars                 4     -      -     -      -     -          4
Pick ups             8      6     2     -      -      -        16
Motorcycles         36      8    15      -     -     -         59
Bicycles             7    33      -    13      -     -         53
The project would provide funds for loans to FR, CR and Assistant Rangers
(AR) to purchase bicycles, and following the system used by the Agricul-
tural Extension Service, a small monthly allowance (NRs 30) would be paid
to ensure maintenance of these bicycles. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that bicycle loans and allowances would be sufficient to
encourage their purchase and use.
Forestry Research
3.33      The Forest Survey and Research Office of FD has already con-
ducted some research in the Terai. This has consisted of trials with
eucalyptus, ipil-ipil and exotic pines. In addition, information has been
collected on inter-cropping sissoo and eucalyptus plantations, with mus-
tard, rice and wheat, and on the yields of some fuelwood species. Techni-
cal assistance has been provided by the Australian and United Kingdom
governments and by the Asian Development Bank. The amount and scope of
the research effort must now be increased to provide a continuing flow of
information and improved technology. The project would therefore provide
staff, vehicles, buildings and operating expenses for an expanded research
program in the topics listed below.
(i) Species and Provenance Trials
These would be conducted with several Eucalyptus species,
sissoo, ipil-ipil, Robinia pseudoacacia and other
promising species, in order to increase the availability of
fast-growing plantation species and provenances.
(ii)   Improved Seed
Seed collection would be upgraded in selected existing
stands, seed orchards established and individual genetically
superior trees identified.



-22-
(iii)   Nursery Practice
Methods for raising quality stock at the lowest cost would
be developed, and the effects of fertilizer, pot size, soil
mixtures and root pruning measured on recommended species.
(iv)   Inter-cropping
The inter-relationships of trees with crops (including
fodder crops) would be investigated.
(v)   Silviculture
Studies would be made of the effects on tree growth of
seedling size at planting, pitting methods, fertilizer and
management practices (thinning and coppicing). Tree growth
under social forestry conditions in the Terai and yield under
different harvesting procedures would be measured. Growth
rates would also be measured in existing natural forest with
a view to prescribing improved management plans.
(vi)   Bamboo
Methods of propagation, planting and management on small
farms would be studied.
(vii)  Poplar
The techniques for poplar cultivation developed in India
and Pakistan would be tested in Nepal.
Improved Stoves
3.34      New stoves have been designed and tested in the Hills under
CFDTP. These stoves reportedly require only half the amount of fuel used
by the traditional Nepalese stove and can be manufactured from local clay
at a small cost (approximately NRs 75 per stove). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that SIU would be maintained. Under the
project, SIU would arrange for the manufacture of 20,000 improved stoves
and their distribution among the households in the project area. During
the project period, emphasis would be on testing, promotion and motiva-
tion, and a wide dissemination of the stoves would be required. Since
it would not be possible to sell the stoves at this stage, no charge would
be made during the project period, but assuming that a demand had been
created and a market developed, a charge would be levied under any future
stove distribution program. Funds would be provided to purchase stoves
from potters (who would be trained by SIU employed experts) and to employ
stove promoters and installers (Annex II, Table 5). Installation would be



-23-
done by locally recruited individuals who would receive training from CFAD
and be paid at a rate of NRs 21.5 per stove installed. Research and
development would also be supported by the project since the present stove
design would have to be adapted to fit the sociological, economic and
environmental conditions of the Terai.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.35      The project would provide funds to strengthen the existing MEU
by adding a second qualified and experienced Forest Officer (Economist) to
work in the Terai, assisted by a statistical tabulator and a FR for data
collection. Funds would also be provided for local consultant firms to be
employed on a contract basis to carry out socio-economic surveys designed
by the Sociologist/Economist consultant employed under technical assis-
tance. The consultant would also assist in setting up systems for project
monitoring. Based on the information collected, MEU would suggest
improvements for project implementation, assess villagers' acceptance of
social forestry activities, and determine tree survival rates of the
community forestry components. MEU would also participate in a mid-term
evaluation of the project at the end of the third year of project
implementation. MEU would produce six-monthly progress reports, each July
and January, in phase with the fiscal year. The reports would give
details of staff in each field unit and at headquarters, a summary of
activities carried out during the preceding six months, targets achieved,
and problems encountered during project implementation. Assurance were
obtained at negotiations that MEU would be maintained under CFAD for
purposes of monitoring and evaluating project progress, including prepara-
tion of the mid-term review.
Forestry Training
3.36      The shortage of trained forestry staff is a constraint limiting
the rate of development of the forestry sector. Manpower requirements
(including a 10% replacement of the existing establishment) have been
estimated at 40 Forest Officers and 200 technicians (Assistant Rangers)
annually.I/ In order to provide the facilities by which the necessary
manpower could be trained in Nepal, the construction of the FI campus at
Pokhara and the extension of FI at Hetauda were supported under CFDTP.
It is now apparent that the provision under CFDTP was inadequate. The
plinth area to be constructed was originally estimated at 9539 sq m at
Pokhara and 2050 sq m at Hetauda. The requirements are now estimated to
be 15191 sq m and 3658 sq m respectively. In addition, some essential
items of civil works (such as a road, water supply and boundary wall) were
1/ Community Forestry Development and Training Project Staff Appraisal
Report (IDA 2663a-NEP), pages 56-57, March 25, 1980.



-24-
omitted from the original list of civil works.  Finally, there have been
substantial and unforseen escalations in building costs over the last two
years. Details for the long-term development of the infrastructure
required at both FI campuses are now complete and HMG proposes to phase
its civil works construction program at Pokhara and Hetauda. The funds
available under CFDTP would be used to construct the basic facilities
required to enable the course at Pokhara campus to begin to function, and
a student hostel at Hetauda. Both campuses would be completed under the
proposed project by the provision of extra offices, houses, student hos-
tels, and workshops at the Pokhara campus, and staff housing and an
auditorium at Hetauda. The designs for all these buildings have been
approved by IDA. The list of civil works for training institutions and
the proposed phasing of construction is given in Annex 1, Table 6. Ade-
quate teaching staff, equipment and vehicles have been provided under
CFDTP.
3.37      In-service Training.  To provide for the in-service training
needs of CFDTP a Ministry of Forests Training Wing was established.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MFTW would be maintained.
To accomodate the extra courses required for the proposed project, the
capacity of the MFTW center in Kathmandu would be increased by adding
another story to the building now under construction, providing some
equipment and an extra two man-years of technical assistance in course
design and management (para 3.42).
3.38      Training Courses.    The project would finance in-service train-
ing by MFTW for DFO, CFO Plantation Officers and CR and basic training
courses for junior staff (Annex II, Table 16). The training would largely
be in the field of forestry extension but other courses would be offered
(para 5.10). The CFO, assisted by CR, would arrange short courses in the
field on forestry extension for Forest Motivators (para 5.04); nursery
production for nursery foremen; and forest rules and protection for Forest
Watchers; using curricula designed by MFTW. Assistance to CFO in conduct-
ing these in-service field courses would be given by the Forest Officer
appointed to MEDU (para. 5.02) and consultants recruited for the motiva-
tion and education program in the field. Plantation Officers (para. 5.07)
would arrange reorientation courses for subordinate staff engaged in
plantation work. The quality of present training is satisfactory.
However, to help strengthen the in-service training program to accomodate
the increasing need for trained staff, the project would provide technical
assistance (para 3.42 c).
3.39      Stipends and Scholarships.    The project would fund the train-
ing costs for 109 Assistant Rangers at FI and 34 Forest Officers at over-
seas institutions. These are the numbers of additional trained staff
required under the proposed project.



-25-
3.40      Provision would be made for 22 man-months of overseas training
in the form of study tours for senior plantation and community forestry
staff. It is proposed that visits be made to countries where development
of community forestry, forest management, and methods of fire detection
and suppression under tropical conditions, are well advanced. Visits to
countries with long experience in the management of short rotation
eucalyptus crops would be included. The project would also fund short
tours for junior staff to neighboring countries.
Forestry Development Planning
3.41    HMG has decided to produce a National Forestry Development Plan,
which is to be based on a reliable inventory of forest resources and
projected demands for forest products.  Under this plan HMG would seek to
integrate the large number of externally aided forestry development
projects into a comprehensive development program for forestry in Nepal.
During the preparation of this plan pricing policies for timber and fuel-
wood would be reviewed and proposals made for revision of prices charged
by TCN to bring them into line with prevailing market prices. Policy
guidelines would also be set for the introduction of cheaper methods of
reforestation, including the possibilities for leasing forests to firms
and private individuals for tree farming. The preparation of the plan
would require 15 man months of consultancy services (para 3-42).  Experts
in forestry planning and inventory would be appointed to work
with MFSC Planning Division. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that such experts would be employed no later than June 1, 1985 with
qualifications, experience and terms cf reference satisfactory to the
Association. Assurances were obtained that the National Forestry Develop-
ment Plan would be produced and forwarded to the Association for review
before December 31, 1986.
Technical Assistance
3.42      The concept of community forestry is new to the Terai.  Since
experienced forestry staff are scarce, the project would require substan-
tial amounts of technical assistance, not only to assist in executing
field planting programs, but also in helping with the training and
research programs. The following technical assistance needs have there-
fore been identified and included in the project. Draft terms of
reference for consultants to be provided under technical assistance are
given in Project File, Item 15.
(a) Community Forestry Development Program - CFAD Central Office
and Field Program
(i) Socio-Economist (5 man-months);
(ii) Stove Designer/Ceramist (10 man-months);
(iii) Stove Technology Development and Training Expert



-26-
(36 man-months); and
(iv) Foresters (144 man-months)
(b) Agro-Forestry Plantation
(i) Plantation Adviser and Silviculturist (24 man-months);
(ii) Silviculturist (30 man-months);
(iii) Tractor Operator Training (4 man-months); and
(iv) Fire Protection Specialist (8 man-months).
(c) Training
(i) Specialist in design and organization of in-service
training courses (24 man-months);
(ii) Training Institution Management Specialist (5 man-months);
and
(iii) Sociologist (6 man-months)
(d) Research
(i) Seed Production and Procurement Specialist
(12 man-months)
(e) Forestry Development Planning
(i) Forestry planning expert (12 man-months)
(ii) Inventory expert (3 man-months)
3.43    Technical assistance amounting to five man-months would be
provided for a mid-term evaluation of project implementation. This review
would serve as a basis for any adjustment of project objectives and
programs, as well as for the design of any subsequent forestry project in
the Terai. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the terms of
reference and the membership of the review team would be agreed with IDA
before June 30, 1986. Draft TOR are given in Project File, Item 14.
Assurances were also obtained that upon completion of the mid-term review,
the report would be furnished to IDA for review and comment.
3.44      Monitoring and evaluation of the project would require a series
of surveys in the project area (para 3.35). The project would finance the
equivalent of about eight man-years of local consultancy services to
conduct these surveys.



-27-
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01          The  total  estimated  six year project  cost  is NRs 342.9 M  (US$
24.0 M), including price and physical contingencies. Cost estimates are
summarized below and details are given in Annex II, Tables 1-21. Foreign
exchange amounts to NRs 104.9 M (US$ 7.3 M) or about 31% of total project
costs. Duties and taxes included in total costs are estimated at NRs 24.2
M  (US$  1.7 M).   Cost  estimates  are based on findings  during appraisal,
updated to projected June 1983 values. The project would require about 36
man-years of consultancy services at an estimated total cost of US$1.8 M.
The average man-month cost for local consultants is estimated at US$1,000
and for expatriate consultants at US$10,500, including salary, reimbur-
sables, and international travel.
4.02         Physical  contingencies  of 10% have been applied to construction
and maintenance costs of buildings and roads, and to fertilizers and
chemicals. Price contingencies are estimated at about 26% of project base
costs and are based on expected international price escalations of 7.7%,
7.2%,  6.5%,  6.0% 6.0%,  6.0%;  and  domestic price escalations  of 9.0%,  8.0%,
7.0%, 6.0%, 6.0%, and 6.0% per annuR for 1983/84 through 1988/89.
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
tNRs. '000)                (US$ '000)            o Or
----------------------------- ----------------------- Foreign  l of Total
Local   Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign Total   Exchange U8se Costs
A. PROJECT COORDINATION                          159         -       159      11       -       11        -        0.1
8. NATIONAL FOREST PLANNING                     718        302     1.020      50      2i       71     29.6        0.4
C. COMMUNITY FORESTRY
1. PRIVATE PLANTING                        8l,511         -    18S511   1,295       -   1,295         -        6,9
2. PANCHAYAT PLANTING                      6,241      1,688     7,929     436     118     554      21.3        3.0
3. DEMONSTRATION PLANTINGS  /a             15,144     1.876    17,020   1,059     131   119?0      11.0        6.4
4, STOVE DISTRIBUTION                      3,160        280     3,440     221      20     241       8.1        1.3
5, OTHER COMMUNITY FORESTRY COSTS /b      39,111      9,143    48,254   29735     639   3,374      18.9       18.0
Sub-Total COMMUNITY FORESTRY                 82,168    12.987    95,155   5,746      908   6,654      13.6       35.5
R. STATE AGRO FORESTRY                       50,557    29,947    80.504   39535   2.094   5.630       37.2       30,0
E, NATURAL FOREST IMPROVEMENT                 4.042        307     4,349     283      21      304      7.1        1.6
F. RESEARCH, TRAINING, TA AND MfE            14,959    28,541    436500   1,046   1,996   3,042       65.6       16.2
G. UNIVERSITY AND TRAINING SING              29,876    13.439    43,315   2,089      940   3.029      31,0       16.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                          182,479    85,522   268,001  12,761   5,981  18,741       31.9      100.0
Phgsical Contingencies                       5,219      3,214     8,433     365     225     590      38.1        3.1
Price Contingencies                         50,347    16,136    66,483   3,521   1,128   4,649       24.3       24.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                           238,044   104,873   342o?17  16,646   7,334  23,980       30.6      128,0
/a INCLUDES DEMONSTRATION WOODLOTS AND STRIP PLANTINGS
/b CIVIL WORKSYSTAFFvNURSERY COSTSYVEHICLES AND EQUIPHENT ETC. SUPPORTINGTHE COMMUNITY FORESTRY COMPONENT
Mau 13. 1983 11;.50



-28-
B. Financing
4.03      Project costs would be financed as follows.
Table 4.1: PROJECT FINANCING
Foreign Exchange    Local Currency           Total
US$ Million   %    US$ Million   %    US$ Million   %
HMG                 -         -        4.8         29       4.8       20
IDA                7.3       100      10.7         64      18.0       75
Farmers             -         -        1.2          7       1.2        5
7.3       100      16.7       100        24.0    100
4.04      The IDA credit of US$18 M to HMG on standard terms would be
equivalent to about 75% of total project costs, 81% of project costs net
of taxes and duties, or 85% of project costs net of taxes and duties and
net of farmers- contribution. It would finance the full foreign exchange
costs amounting to US$7.3 M and about 64% of local costs amounting to
US$10.7 M. HMG would contribute about US$4.8 M, of which US$1.7 M would
be taxes and duties. Farmers and villagers would contribute about US$1.2M
in the form of agricultural inputs.
C. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
4.05      The construction of major civil works for training Institutions
at Pokhara and Hetauda totaling US$3.OM would be procured by ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Eligible domestic bidders would be
entitled to a preference of 7.5% in bid evaluation. The balance of
construction to be financed under the project totaling US$1.4M consists
of minor works and buildings scattered throughout the project area which
are not likely to interest foreign bidders. These would be carried out
either by force account (US$0.3M) or by locally advertized competitive
bidding procedures (US$1.IM) which were found at appraisal to be satisfactory
to the association.
4.06      Vehicles, totaling US$1.7M, would be grouped into appropriate
bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Eligible domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation
of 15%, or the import duty, whichever is lower. Equipment and goods in
packages less than US$100,000 in value and totaling approximately US$3.5M
would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures which were
found at appraisal to be satisfactory to the Association.
4.07        Disbursement of funds would be on the following basis:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for
civil works (US$3.5M);



-29-
(b) 85% of local expenditires for civil works carried out by force
account (US$0.3 M);
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
furniture and vehicles and 100% of local expenditures (exfactory
cost) for locally manufactured goods and 75% of local expendi-
tures for goods procured locally (US$4.0 M);
(d) 100% of expenditures for training (US$0.9 M);
(e) 100% of total expenditures for consultant services, including
architects/engineers (US$2.3 M);
(f) 50% (average) of local expenditures for salaries and project
allowances for incremental staff engaged in the project (US$1.1
M), on a declining basis; 75% of expenditures in FY84, 85 and
86; 50% in FY87 and 88; and 25% in FY89;
(g) 50% of local expenditures for project operating costs (US$4.5
M); and
(h) unallocated (US$1.4 M).
4.08      Disbursements against civil works carried out by force account
and by local contracts worth US$5,000 equivalent or less and (f) and (g)
above would be made against statements of expenditure, certified by the
Secretary of Forest or Joint Secretary of Education, whichever is
appropriate. Documents supporting statements of expenditure would not be
submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by HMG and would be
made available for inspection and review by accredited IDA representatives
during project supervision. Requests for disbursement against other items
would be fully documented. Disbursement estimates are given in Annex V.
The disbursement schedule differs from the disbursement profile for IDA
agricultural credits in South Asia, mainly in the mid-term period when
disbursement under the project are expected to be rapid due to the comple-
tion of investments in training programs and civil works at training
institutions; and at the end, when delays would be unlikely since
infrastructure would have been completed and disbursements would be mainly
against staff and nursery operating costs. The disbursement schedule is
reasonable in view of the experience gained with CFDTP where physical
implementation targets have been met and delays in disbursement have been
due to problems with administrative procedures which have now been largely
overcome. Furthermore, changes in the system for release of funds to line
agencies in project districts (para. 2.08) is ensuring prompt completion
of financial statements on which disbursement requests can be based. The
closing date would be June 30, 1990.



-30-
D. Accounts and Audit
4.09     The accounting offices of HMG and Tribhuvan University were
visited during appraisal and found to be adequate to carry out project
accounting procedures. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that HMG
and the University would:
(a)  record all project expenditure under a separate head of account
in accordance with sound accounting practices, including
separate accounts for statements of expenditure;
(b)  furnish to the Association as soon as available but not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year, certified
copies of financal statements for the year;
(c)  cause the records and accounts to be audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; and
(d)  provide a statement by such auditors that funds disbursed
against statements of expenditure had been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
4.10      Financial statements are internally audited by the Financial
Controller of the ministry concerned (an officer seconded from the Account
General's Office) and then forwarded to the Auditor General for external
audit. The audit report is prepared by the Auditor General and after
approval by the National Panchayat would be made available to IDA.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination
5.01      As various divisions of MFSC (FD territorial divisions, plan-
ning, CFAD, etc.) would be responsible for carrying out project
activities, it would be necessary to ensure coordination of these func-
tions. Consequently, a Project Coordinator would have to be appointed and
it would be a condition of credit effectiveness that CCF had been desig-
nated Project Coordinator. In order to assist the Project Coordinator in
his day to day duties an assistant would be appointed. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the post of Assistant to the Coodinator
would be created and filled with an officer with suitable qualifications
and experience not later than 30 days after credit effectiveness.
The Project Coordinator would also be assisted by the Project Coordin-
ating Committee established under CFDTP, which would provide coordin-
ation and cooperation between the diffrent Ministries involved in
project implementation. The Committee is under the chairmanship of the
Secretary for Forests and its membership includes the Director General



-31-
Soil and Water Conservation, the Dean of FI, the Head of the Survey and
Research Division of FD, the Director General of the Survey Department of
the Ministry of Land Reform, and representatives from the Ministries of
Panchayat and Local Development, Finance, Education and Agriculture.
Representatives from the Ministries of Water Resources and Works and
Transport and from NPC would also serve on the Committee. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Project Coordinating Committee would be
maintained.
Forestry and Agro-Forestry
5.02      Community Forestry.  CFAD operations in both the Hills and Terai
would be organized and managed by DCCF (see Chart). Under the proposed
project, the CFAD support units (para 2.22) would be strengthened by the
addition of three professional officers for motivation and education,
monitoring and evaluation, and stove promotion (Annex II, Table 6). TCFPU
would be added and take responsibility for community forestry and for
technical support for the agro-forestry plantations in the Terai. CFAD
would be responsible for technical direction, budgeting, and provision of
funds through the District Accounting Offices.
5.03      The seven DFO, working under the head of TCFPU would be respon-
sible for the overall development and administration of community forestry
programs in the forestry divisions. They would each be assisted by a CFO
(Class III officer) who would have received orientation training in comn-
munity forestry from MFTW. The CFO would be responsible for all community
forestry activities in a particular division and would be assisted in each
administrative district, by five CR, who would be responsible for forestry
extension and motivation, coordination of the stove program, monitoring
and evaluation, control of community forest nurseries, and supervision of
forest watchers, stove promoters, forestry motivators and stove
installers. To establish PF and to develop a joint management plan, the
CR would work as an assistant to the CFO who would be directly responsible
for all management plans for the division. Job descriptions for CFO and
CR are given in Project File, Item 12.
5.04      Part-time Forestry Motivators (FM) and stove promoters (SP)
would be employed under the project at the village level and would be
recruited either from among progressive farmers or literate village
panchayat members. They would operate under the direction of CR. CFO or
CR would train both FM and SP in simple communication and extension tech-
niques, as well as provide comprehensive orientation concerning the
project and its objectives at the divisional level. FM would coordinate
operations in village woodlot establishment, private forestry, strip
plantations and nursery production. However, the main task of the FM
would be to promote the farm forestry scheme. The benefits from estab-
lishing private plantations would be explained to farmers and records of
individual plantings maintained. Farmers would be visited (individually



-32-
or in groups) at least once a month to discuss problems that may arise
from project implementation. If these cannot be solved satisfactorily
they would be referred to CR or to CFO. In addition, FM would carry out
simple administrative activities such as monitoring survival rates of
trees, recording data from research trials at village and farmer's level,
and provide a link between CR and the village panchayat, as well as CR and
the farmer.
5.05      Experts recruited under technical assistance would be employed
to assist DFO and CFO with training staff in motivation and extension
activities. These experts would be guided either by the advice of the
head of UNDP/FAO team presently employed on CFDTP or head of CFAD.
5.06      Improvement of Natural Forests.  Forestry improvement would be
implemented through a separate unit under the direct control of DFO. A
Forest Officer (Attached Officer) would be provided together with a staff
of one FR and one AR.
5.07      Agro-forestry.  The agro-forestry plantation component would be
under the direction of the circle Conservators. Plantation Officers would
be appointed in each of the four districts in which plantation blocks are
to be developed. The Plantation Officers would be responsible for land
clearing, nursery production, agro-forestry, tree planting, roads, fire
protection and vehicle maintenance, and would be assisted by teams of FR,
AR, Field Supervisors, Accountants and Clerks. Details are given in Annex
11, Tables 12 and 13.
Improved Stoves
5.08      The program for design, construction, and distribution of
improved stoves would be organized by SIU, which has operated a similar
program in the Kathmandu valley under CFDTP. A total of 700 stoves have
been distributed and are well accepted by villagers. Contracts for
research and development of stoves suitable for the Terai would be
arranged with competent organizations (e.g. RECAST 1/ of Tribhuvan Univer-
sity).  Training of potters would be provided in Kathmandu and of
installers at the proposed Pottery Training and Extension Center to be
constructed at Bhaktapur with West German assistance. The stove improve-
ment program is described in detail in Project File, Item 13. Part-time
SP would be employed to encourage villagers to accept the new stoves. In
this role they would be recruited and operate in a similar manner to FM
(para 5.04) and under the direction of CR. They would visit villages to
initially set up demonstration stoves at points of greatest impact (e.g.
tea houses, schools). This would be followed by a second visit when new
1/ Research Center for Applied Science and Technology.



-33-
stoves would be installed in houses selected to provide a demonstration to
all castes and social classes. FD has agreed to establish procedures and
criteria to ensure a fair and equitable distribution of stoves in the
project area. Basic training in the use of stoves would be provided by
CFO and CR assisted by SIU and other support available from CFAD.
Forestry Research
5.09      The forestry research program would be directed by the Head of
the Research and Mensuration Unit of the MFSC Forest Survey and Research
Office. Community Forestry research would be coordinated by the existing
Community Forestry Technical Committee, established under CFDTP.
Training
5.10      In-service.  MFTW has been set up under a Chief Training Officer
to provide practically oriented in-service training in forestry and soil
and water conservation. The number of courses would be increased to cover
the needs of the project and additional courses offered on forestry in the
Terai, reorientation, motivation and education, plantation establishment
and planning and management. MFTW would also equip trainers at the divi-
sional level with the necessary instructions and course notes to enable
them to train nursery workers, FM and SP working in the divisions.
5.11      Professional.  The Dean of the FI would be responsible for the
organization and management of the technical training component. Overseas
training and study tours would be arranged by the Project Coordinator.
National Forestry Development Plan
5.12      The responsibility for preparing the National Forest Development
Plan would lie with the Planning Division of MFSC. A broadly based plan-
ning group would be established which would be assisted by the Experts
in forestry planning and inventory recruited under technical
assistance.  The Forest Survey and Research Office would be responsible
for providing data on the natural forest resources of the country, more
particularly of the Terai.  The inventory expert would assist in
updating the assessment of growing stocks in this area by establishing
temporary sample plots randomly distributed within forest areas delineated
on the 1982 1:50,000 Land Utilization Maps. 1/
1/ Published by Typographical Survey Branch, Kathmandu; relevant sheets
are available in South Asia Information Center.



-34-
VI. PRODUCTION MARKETS AND COST RECOVERY
Production and Yields
6.01      The main products from forests established under the project
would be fuelwood, timber, poles, fruits and fodder. Minor products of
lesser economic importance would be bamboo poles and medicinal plants.
Agricultural crops would be produced as a results of the agro-forestry
program from the third project year onwards. Summary of production levels
and yield estimates of the major products, such as timber, fuelwood, and
leaf fodder are given below, with details in Annex III, Tables 1-2.
Table 6.1: ESTIMATED YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Yields per ha at      Total Project
Product        full development        Production  a/
Fuelwood             7   m3              6.4 M m3
Poles                1   m3              1.0 M m3
Timber               0.5 m3             1.4 M m3
Fodder               2.1 mt              1.7 M mt
Fruit                1 mt               0.3 M mt
a/ Over 40 year project period.
Markets
6.02      All project produce would be marketed in the Terai.  Because of
the acute shortage of fuelwood, fodder, and timber, no marketing difficul-
ties are foreseen. Fuelwood, poles, and sawlogs are marketed both through
official government outlets (FCN and TCN), as well as through private
auctions and smaller dealers. FCN and TCN prices are based on a
no-profit, no-loss policy and include a royalty to HMG (see Annex I, Table
3) over and above that necessary to cover operating costs of FCN and TCN.
These prices and royalties are adjusted periodically to reflect changes in
operating costs. Private market prices are generally higher; about 17%
above the official HMG prices. Fuelwood is sold in the Terai both by
large and small dealers as well as individual collectors who often walk
long distances to collect headloads for sale. The network of smaller
dealers is informally linked to larger dealers and auctions in Kathmandu,
Hetauda, and the Terai in general. Markets for timber and poles are also
well established as are those for fodder, fruit, as well as agricultural
crops. Market prices for all project products are summarized in Annex
III, Tables 3-10. The present national demand for fuelwood alone is
estimated at about 13 M m3/year. With a 6.4 M m3 total incremental fuel-
wood production over the 40 year project life, or a 0.16 M m3 average
annual incremental output, the project would have no major impact on



-35-
market prices. Project incremental output for other commodities relative
to demand is also small.
Distribution of Produce
6.03      Forest products from farm forestry and institutional woodlots
would be the property of the farmers or institutions concerned, to be used
or disposed of in a manner determined by them. The produce from PF and
demonstration woodlots would become the property of the panchayat to be
divided among panchayat members in a manner determined and prescribed in
forest management plans and in accordance with forest rules. The manner
of disposal of produce from strip plantations would be determined by each
management plan (para 3.22). However, it is likely that in order to
ensure that villagers cooperate in the protection of strip plantation,
it will be necessary that a substantial part of the harvest be allocated
to them.
6.04      The majority of forest produce from land clearing needed for
establishing agro-forestry plantations and arising from natural forestry
improvement would be extracted and marketed by TCN and FCN (or the cor-
poration which supersedes them (para 2.19)). Residual fuelwood and poles
would then be harvested by local villagers for their own consumption, free
of cost, under prevailing rules which allow for one head-load per day.
Financial Results
6.05      Financial rates of return have been calculated using market
prices for all inputs and outputs. In fact, most labor would be con-
tributed in the form of self or family labor and most fuelwood would be
consumed domestically. As calculated, therefore, the financial rates of
return reflect existing market incentives for such operations. The finan-
cial rate of return to villagers for their investments in community
forestry would be approximately 38%; for panchayat plantings, 33%; and for
agro-forestry, 21%. Details of the financial analyses for these
activities are presented in Annex III, Tables 10-12.
Cost Recovery
6.06      Villagers would harvest forest products mainly for their own use
and under communal arrangements embodied in the forest management plans.
Furthermore, there would be little cash income from community forestry.
Abject poverty is widespread in the project area and the population would
be unable to pay for the services provided under the project. No cost
recovery is proposed for these components. This is a reasonable policy
given the benefits expected to accrue to the poorer segment of the popula-
tion, and in the light of experience with social forestry elsewhere, where
it has proven difficult to arrange for an efficient and cost effective
method for collecting numerous small fees.



-36-
6.07      Revenues would be collected by FCN and TCN from the sale of
sawlogs, fuelwood, small timber and poles resulting from the agro-forestry
and natural forest improvement programs. On this basis, the NPV of
project costs, discounted at a rate of 10%, slightly exceeds the NPV of
revenues by NRs 12.3 M (or 6.8 %). The financial rate of return to HMG
would be about 6%. 1/ This is considered satisfactory in view of the
employment generated, the forest products collected without charge by the
local population, and the indirect benefits of improved living standards
and environmental conditions.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits and Beneficiaries
7.01      Project production would include fuelwood, timber, poles, fod-
der, fruit, and agricultural crops. In addition, the project would result
in increased employment opportunities, improved distribution of forest
plantings, and increased accessibility to fuelwood by the rural poor. The
project afforestation program would have the additional benefit of con-
tributing towards arresting ongoing environmental degradation (para.
7.04), while the introduction of 20,000 improved stoves could result in
savings of at least 5,000 mt (6,900 m3) of fuelwood annually over and
above incremental annual production of some 116,000 mt (160,000 m3). By
reducing the need for alternative forms of imported energy, the project
would have a positive impact on the country's foreign exchange position.
The project would have a positive impact on the standard of living of all
panchayat residents. Those with some land would benefit from private
plantations and from trees planted on field boundaries. Under the forest
management plans agreed by the panchayat, residents, including the land-
less who suffer from acute shortages of fuelwood, would be entitled to a
share of the available fodder and fuelwood from panchayat forests, strip
plantations and demonstration woodlots. They would also be permitted to
collect headloads of fuelwood and fodder resulting from the operations of
the natural forest improvement program and the agro-forestry plantation
program.
7.02      Employment.  Over the six year project period 8,000 ha of largely
unproductive land, roadsides, and canal banks would be brought under
production using labor intensive methods. In addition, labor would be
employed in replanting degraded forest areas and in improving timber
stands in existing forest. The anticipated total of about 2.5 M mandays
of employment would largely benefit the disadvantaged and landless sec-
tions of the community which are the usual source of manual labor.
1/ In real terms.



-37-
7.03      Food Production.  Landless and forest laborers would be per-
mitted to grow crops as part of agro-forestry techniques for forest estab-
lishment. At full operation of the agro-forestry component, annual
production, in terms of foodgrains would be 4,500 mt; enough to satisfy
the needs of about 5,600 families.
7.04      Environmental Impact.  The major environmental benefits of
project forestry activities would be soil conservation, protection of
rural water supplies, micro-climatic improvements and restoration of soil
fertility.
Economic Analysis and Rates of Return
7.05      The return of the project to the economy has been calculated
separately for each component and for the project as a whole. The follow-
ing assumptions have been made in the analysis:
(a) all costs have been included except those related to the con-
struction of the university and training wing;
(b) both benefits and costs are expressed in end 1982 constant
border prices (net of local taxes and duties);
(c) project benefits include production of fuelwood, timber, poles,
fodder, fruit, and minor agricultural crops;
(d) incremental project inputs and outputs are valued in economic
terms as detailed in Annex III, pages 1-3 and Tables 3-9.
Economic value of traded commodities are based on their
projected world market prices; non-traded commodity prices are
adjusted by an appropriate conversion factor. Because of exist-
ing markets for fuelwood (para 6.02), as well as for alternative
fuels (cow-dung, kerosene, etc.) in the Terai, the market price
of fuelwood is taken as the basis upon which the economic price
is calculated (see Annex III, Table 5).
(e) the exchange rate is taken at a constant NRs 14.3 = US$1; the
standard conversion factor is taken to be 0.9;
(f) the average financial wage rate is taken at NRs 10/manday; the
economic wage rate at 50% of the financial wage, adjusted by the
SCF;
(g) physical contingencies have been included; and
(h) the period of analysis is taken as 40 years, the period needed
for full production.



-38-
7.06      Using the above assumptions, the best estimate for the economic
rate of return is 27% (based on 84% of project costs). The Nepalese
economy would realize net benefits from project investments (at an oppor-
tunity cost of capital of 10%) of about NRs 285 M. Economic rates of
return for the individual components are summarized below:
Table 7.1: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN BY COMPONENT
Rate of Return
Project Overall                     27
Community Forestry                  30
Demonstration Woodlots              19
Improvement of Natural Forests   100 +
Agroforestry                       100 +
7.07      Sensitivity tests indicate that the economic rate of return for
the project as a whole, as well as for individual components, is not
particularly sensitive with respect to price, yield, and cost changes.
Summary information is presented below. More detailed analysis can be
found in Annex III, Table 15. The results indicate that benefits (i.e.
prices or yields) would have to fall considerably (65%) below expected
values before the net present value would become zero. A similar, but
greater, insensitivity of the project rate of return exists with respect
to costs.
Table 7.2: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Sensitivity a/
Values
All Costs                       +   190
All Benefits                    -    65
a/ Percentage change in variable which will make
the net present value, at an opportunity cost
of capital of 10%, equal to zero.
Project Risks
7.08    The project faces no major risks in terms of unsatisfactory rate
of return since the sensitivity analysis shows that large changes could



-39-
occur either in costs or benefits before the project would become economi-
cally non-viable. Furthermore, large increases in costs or decreases in
benefits are improbable. Variations in fuelwood price over time have been
minimal and the generally stable long-term nature of fuelwood production
make short-term price fluctuations uncommon. Fuelwood will likely remain
the basic energy source for the majority of the population. Risk levels
for the individual project components are also low (Annex III, Table 15).
7.09      The project aims at fostering community involvement in affores-
tation programs and forest protection, with the initiative for participa-
tion coming from the panchayats. There is a risk that the number of
village panchayats willing to participate may not reach the targets set.
However, a survey of social attitudes (Project File, Item 8) clearly
indicates the interest of individuals in forestry enterprises of both an
individual and community nature. With the assistance and experience of
MEDU and MEU and a reorientation of forestry staff towards the methodology
required for successful implementation of community forestry programs, the
risl:s from panchayat apathy and ignorance are considered to be low.
Monitoring the progress of the project, including the survival rates for
seedlings planted on private land would be continuous, and the mid-term
review would enable the project-s goals and targets to be adjusted so that
its impetus is maintained and its achievements are satisfactory.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) CFAD would make the necessary production inputs available to
village panchayat nurseries when needed (para 3.08);
(b) HMG would arrange sufficient finance for credit for private
nurseries through ADBN (para 3.09);
(c) nursery production inputs would be furnished to private nur-
series; and seedlings purchased each season beginning May 1,
1984, at prices not less than the equivalent of production costs
of FD nurseries, less costs of production inputs (para 3.09);
(d) the format for an agreement between FD and agro-forestry cul-
tivators would be forwarded for IDA's approval by December 31,
1984 and utilized by May 31, 1985 (para 3.23);
(e) CFAD would be maintained, and a Terai Community Forestry Project
Unit would be established for conducting forestry programs in
the Terai (para 3.25);



-40-
(f) the head of TCFPU post would be created and filled by an officer
with suitable qualifications and experience not later than 30
days after credit effectiveness (para 3.25);
(g) the post of head of CFAD would be upgraded and filled by an
officer with qualifications, experience and TOR satisfactory
to IDA not later than 30 days after credit effectiveness (para
3.25);
(h) field staff would live in their area of operation and would
obtain housing or rent allowance for this purpose (para 3.31);
(i)  land required for the project would be acquired by HMG (para 3.31);
(j) loans and maintenance allowances would be provided for the
purchase and use of bicycles (para 3.32);
(k)  SIU would be maintained (para 3.34);
(1) MEU would be maintained under CFAD for monitoring and evaluating
project progress (para 3.35);
(m) MTTW would be maintained (para 3.37);
(n) Experts in forestry planning and inventory would be
employed to assist with the preparation of the National Forestry
Developmerit Plan with qualifications and terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA before June 1, 1985 (para 3.41);
(o) the National Forestry Plan would be prepared and forwarded to
IDA for comment and review before December 31, 1986 (para 3.41);
(p) TOR and membership of the mid-term review team would be agreed
with IDA before June 30, 1986 (para 3.43);
(q) upon completion of the mid-term review, the report would be
furnished to IDA for review and comment (para 3.43);
(r) separate accounts would be kept and audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA; financial statements to
be certified and submitted to IDA within nine months after the
close of the fiscal year (para 4.09);
(s) the post of Assistant to the Coordinator had been created and filled by
an officer with suitable qualifications and experience not later
than 30 days after credit effectiveness (para 5.01); and



-41-
(t) the Project Coordinating Committee established under CFDTP would
be maintained (para 5.01).
8.02    A condition of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) that CCF had been designated as Project Coordinator (para 5.01).
8.03    With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of $18.0 M on standard IDA terms. The Borrower
would be His Majesty's Government of Nepal.



-42-
ANNEX I
Table 1
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Main Physical Forestry Targets in Sixth Plan
Program                               Unit          Target
Protection and Improvement of Forest              ha           82,189
Afforestation                                      ha          33,545
Checkdam Construction                              ha           2,000
Families to be Re-settled                       Family         30,158



-43-
ANNEX I
Table 2
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Forestry Sector Revenue and Expenditure
(NRs)
Fiscal        Revenue                   Expenditure
Year                         Regular        Development
1976/77      86,858,456         442,268        22,748,679
1977/78      80,858,458         488,505        36,380,317
1978/79      80,364,843         619,887        38,268,382
1979/80      80,983,494         641,004        45,106,873
1980/81     112,350,000            N/A              N/A



-44-
ANNEX I
Table 3
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Forestry Royalty Rates
Current Rate
Roundwood Royalty Rates
Timber Species                                    (NRs/ft3)
Dar, Sagban (Teak), Okhar, Satisal                22.30
Champ, Sisoo                                      19.40
Sal                                               13.00
Khair                                             30.00
Asna                                               7.20
Toon                                               5.30
Jamun, Karma                                       6.20
Tikul, Shaur, Bijaysal, Siris, Phaldu,
Sandan, Padan, Bonji                            5.00
Somal                                              4.70
Bhudkul, Gutel, Pipali                             3.75
Chiluani, Ghamari, Katus                           3.00
Utis, Lampata                                      1.80
Khotta Salla (Chir Pine)                           5.30
Other kinds of pine                                4.40
Deodhar                                            3.45
Firs, Spruce                                       2.80
Kimbu                                              6.25
Miscellaneous spp.                                 1.20
Khair stump per stump                             50.00
Fuelwood Royalty Rates                             (NRs/stack) a/
Household use                                       214
For commercial purposes                             322
For export                                          428
a/  One stack of 20  x 5' x 5  equivalent to 1 truck load of 80 quintal.
Source: Forestry Department of Nepal



-45-
ANNEX I
Table 4
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Current International and Bilateral Assistance in Forestry
Financing Agency
Rasuwa-Nuwakot (Hills)                WB/HMG
Kosi (Hills)                          UK/HMG
Sagarmatha (Terai and Hills)          AsDB/IFAD/HMG
Chautara (Hills)                      Australia/HMG
Gurkha-Mustang-Khulkani (Hills)       USAID/HMG
Lamsangu-Jiri (Hills)                  SATA/HMG
Tinal Khola Catchment (Hills)         GTZ/SATA/HMG
Rapti Zone (Hills)                     USAID/HMG
Karnali-Bheri (Hills)                 CIDA/HMG
Community Forestry Development in
28 Hill Districts                   IDA/USAID/UNDP/HMG
Sagarnath (Terai)                     AsDB/OPEC/HMG



-46-
Annex 1
Table 5
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Departments of Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation
Departments
Forest Department
Department of National Parks and Wildlife
Department of Soil Conservation and Watershed Management
Department of Medicinal Plants
Department of Drug Administration
Planning Department
Cooperatives and Companies
Timber Corporation of Nepal
Fuelwood Corporation of Nepal
Forest Products Development Board
Resettlement Company
Royal Drugs Company
Herbs Production and Processing Company



-47-
Annex I
Table 6
Page 1
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Civil Works at
Institute of Forestry, Hetauda and Pokhara
I. Civil Works to be provided under CFDTP:
NRs '000
A.  Pokhara
Classroom building                                    2,921  1/
Laboratory building                                    2,959
Library                                               1,831
Administrative block                                  2,000
Student hostel                                        6,426
Staff housing                                         3,030
Site development                                      2,000
B. Hetauda
Hostel                                                3,883
C.  Architectural and Engineering Fees                       1,852
Total -     26,902
II.  Civil works originally under CFDTP to be financed under Forestry II:
A. Pokhara
Workshop building                                      1,840
Common building                                       1,259
Administrative block                                  1,400
Student hostel                                        6,167
Staff housing                                         6,030
B. Hetauda
Staff housing                                         3,124
Bachelor quarters                                       944
Auditorium                                               712
Total -   21,520



-48-
Annex I
Table 6
Page 2
III. Civil works not included under CFDTP to be financed under Forestry II:
Pokhara site development                               7,517
(Water Supply Road, paths, boundary
wall, etc.)
Hetauda site development                                 163
Furniture                                              2,167
Architect's fees                                       2,315
Total - T27r62
1/ Mid 1982 prices



-49-                                   ANNEX  II
Table 1
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Component bY Time
; NRs. '000)
Base Costs                            Total
83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89    NRs.   (USS '000)
A. PROJECT COORDINATION                         26      26      26      26       26      26       159         11
B, NATIONAL FOREST PLANNING                    350      58     153     153      153     153     1,020         71
C. COMMUNITY FORESTRY
1. PRIVATE PLANTING                           -     343   1,371   3,771   5,828   7I199    1B,511       1,295
2. PANCHAYAT PLANTING                         -     528   1,088   19828   2,200   2,286      7,929        554
3. DEMONSTRATION PLANTINGS  /a                -   1,015   2,834   4,017   4,483   4,672    17,020       1,190
4. STOVE DISTRIBUTION                       968     540     483     483      483     483     3,440        241
5. OTHER COMMUNITY FORESTRY COSTa /b    lO987   5,455   6,616   7,711  8S223   9,262    48,25'4        3,374
Sub-Total COMMUNITY FORESTRY                ll955   7YB80  12,392  17,810  21,216  23,902    95,155        6,654
D. STATE AGRO FORESTRY                           -  24,329  15,424  13,518  16,139  11,093    80,504       5,630
E. NATURAL FOREST IMPROVEMENT                  167     969     803     803      803     803     4,349        304
F. RESEARCH, TRAINING, TA AND MIE           ?9987  13,770  11,317   4,366  2,672   1,388    43,500         3,042
G. UNIVERSITY AND TRAINING WING                  -  27,794  13,311     737      737     737    43,315      3,029
Total BASELINE COSTS                          22,485  74,828  53,426  37,413  41,746  38,102   268,001      18,741
Phssical Contingencies                        584   3,681   1,912     720      805     733     8,433        590
Price Contingencies                           946   9,761  11,549  11,036  15,656  17r536    66,483       4,649
Total PROJECT COSTS                           24,014  88y270  66,B86  49,169  58,206  56,371   342,917      23,980
Taxes                                       4,201   9,806   5,095   1,705  1lS68   2,062    24,737        1,730
Foreign Exchange                           11,446  39,235  21,737  11,619  11,856   8,981   104,873       7,334
/a INCLUDES DEMONSTRATION WOODLOTS AND STRIP PLANTINGS
/b  CIVIL WORKS,STAFF,NURSERY COSTS,VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT ETC. SUPPORTINGTHE COMMUNITY FORESTRY COMPONENT
_-- 1____    1983 __ 1__ __ __ _   __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __
MaS 13Y 1983 11.049



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
FARM . INSTITUTIONAL * AND PANCHAYAT PLANTINGS
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
2uantitY                                                           (Nks. '000)
---------------------------------------------------t----------- --------   Unlt           ----------------------------
Unit 83/84   84/85    85/86       86/87      87/88      88j89       Total     Cost 83184 84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88189   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. PRIVATE PLANTINGS
PLANTS FOR FARM PLANTINGS                    -  480Y000  1.9209000  6,000,000  9,600,000  12,000,000  30,000,000 0.6        -  274.2 19097.0 39428.0 5,484.9 6.856.1 17,140.2
PLANTS FOR INSTITUTIONAL PLANTINGS            -   120.000    480.000    600000    600,000     600.000   2,400,000  0.6     -  68.6  274.2  342.8  342.8  342.8  1,371.2
Sub-Total PRIVATE PLANTINGS                                                                                                    -  342.8 1,371.2 3,770.8 5,827.7 7,198.9 186511.4
B. PANCHAYAT PLANTINGS
____________________
1. MATERIALS
PLANTS                                    -  400,000    600,000  1000000  1,000.000  1000.000   4,000.000  0.6        -  228.5  342.8   571.3  571.3  571.3  2P285.4
WIRE                              kg      -    10,000      15,000     25,000    25,000      25,000      100,000 14.2     -  141.7  212.6  354.3  354.3  354.3  19417.0
FERTILIZER                        kg       -        -      14,000    21,000      35,000     35,000      105,000  5.8     -      -    80.6  120.9  201.5  201.5   604.4
LEGUME SEED                                -        -           -          -          -           -           -          -    2.2     3.2     5.4     5.4     5.4      21.6
Sub-Total MATERIALS                                                                                                         - 372.4  639.2 1051.9 1,132.5 1,132.5  4,328.4
2. LABOR
LAYOUT AND SURVEY                 ad      -       600        900       1,500      1,500       1,500       6,000 10.8     -    6.5     9.7   16.2   16.2   16.2    64.7
FENCING                           ad      -    2,000       3.000      5,000      5,000       5.000      20,000 10.8      -   21.6   32.3   53.9   53.9   53.9   215.6
STAKING                           ad       -      800       1,200      2,000      2,000       2,000       80ooo 10.8     -   8.6    12.9   21.6    21.6    21.6    86.2
PITTING                           nd      -    6,400       9,600      16,000     16,000      16,000     64,000 10.8      -   69.0  103.5  172.5   172.5  172.5   689.9
PLANT DISTR                       ad      -       200        300        500        500         500       2,000 10.8      -    2.2     3.2     5.4     5.4     5.4      21.6
PLANTING                          ad      -     4,400      6,600      11,000     11,000     11.000      44,000 10.8      -   47.4    71.1   118.6  118.6  118.6    474.3
FILLING BLANKS                    td       -        -       1,200      1,800      3,000       3.000       9,000 10.8     -      -    12.9   19.4    32.3   32.3        97.0
FERT APPLICATION                  ad      -         -      2,800       4,200     7,000       7,000      21,000 10.8      -      -    30.2   45.3   75.5   75.5    226.4
SOWING LEGUME FODDER              cd      -         -       1,000      1Y500      2,500      2,500       76S00 10.8      -      -    10.8   16.2    27.0   27.0    80.9
WEEDING                           ad      -         -     15,000     28.500    50,500       58.500     152,500 10.8      -      -   161.7  307.2  544.4  630.6  1,644.0
Sub-Total LABOR                                                                                                             -  155.2  448.4   776.2 1,067.2 1.153.5  39600.5
Sub-Total PANCHATAT PLANTINGS                                                                                                  - 527.6 1,087.6 1,828.0 2,199.7 2.285.9  7,928.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                            - 870.4 2,458.8 5,598.9 8,027.3 9,484.8 26,440.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                               - 870.4 2,458.8 5,598.9 8,027.3 9,484.8 269440.3
Mas 13, 1983  1148                                                                                                                                                               x
- - - - - - - - - -- -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
ROAD AND CANALSIDE AND RIVERBANK PLANTINGS
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Quarititv                                                          (NRs. '000)
-------------------------------------------------------------------- Unit ----------------_____-_________________
Unit 83/84   84/85     85/86     86/87       87/88      88/89       Total    Cost 83/84 84/85  85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89  fotal   i
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. PLANTS                    -   400,000   800.000  1I300,000  1,300,000  1,300,000  5,100,000  0.6        -  228.5  457.1   742.7   742.7   742,7 2,913.8
B. LABOR
STAKING           ad      -        800     1,600      2,600       2,600      2,600      10200 10.8     -    8.6   17.2    28.0    28.0    28.0   110.0
PITTING           md      -     5,600    11,200      18,200      18.200     18,200     71,400 10.8      -   60.4  120.7   196,2   196.2   196.2   769.7    u
PLANT DISTR       ad      -        200       400        650         650        650       2,550 10.8     -    2.2    4.3      7.0      7.0     7.4    27.5
PLANTING          ad       -     4,400     8,800     149300      14,300     14,300      56,100 10.8     -   47.4   94.9   154.2   154.2   154.2   604.8
FILLING BLANKS    ad      -          -     1,200      2,400       3,900      3,900      11,400 10.8     -       -   12.9    25.9    42.0    42.0   122.9
WEEDING           ad       -         -    15,000     36,000      640750     76,250    192,000 10.8      -       -  161.7   388.1   698.0   822.0 2,069.8
Sub-Total LABOR                                                                                            -  118.6  411.8   799.3 1,125.4 1,249.4 3.704,5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                        -  347.1  868.9 1,542.1 1,868.2 1,992.1 6,618.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                            -  347.1  868.9 1,542.1 1,868.2 1,992.1 6,618.4
Mav 13, 1983 11'48
m Pq
frM
(D X
wH



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
DEMONSTRATION WOODLOTS
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Quantits                                                       (NRs. '000)
------------------------------------------------------------------ Unit -------------------------------------------~---------
Unit 83/84  84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88       88/89    Total   Cost 83/84 84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   Total
1, INVESTMENT COSTS
A. MATERIALS
PLANTS                         -  400,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000  4Y400,000 0.6     - 228,5  571.3  571.3  571.3  571.3  2,513*9
WIRE                   Kg      -   10.000    25,000    25,000    25s000    25,000    110,000 14,2    -  141.7  354.3  354.3  354.3  354.3  165697
FERTILIZER             k       -        -   14000    35,000   35,000    35.000    119,000  5.8       -      -    80.6  201.5  201.5  201.5   685.0
LEGUME SEED                    -        -         -         -         -         -         -          -    2.2    5*4      5.4    5.4    5.4    23.7
Sub-Total MATERIALS                                                                                     -  372,4 1,011.6 1,132.5 1.132.5 1.132.5  4,781.3
B. LABOR
FELLING STUMPING       od      -    9,000   229500   22,500    22,500    22,500    99,000 10.8       -   97.0  242.5  242.5  242.5  242,5  1,067.2
STACKING/BURNING       ad      -    4,000    10,000   10,000    10,000    10,000    44,000 10.8      -   43.1  107.8  107.8  107.8  107.8   474.3
LAYOUT/SURVEY          ad      -      600    1.500      1,500     1,500     1,500    6b600 10.8      -    6b5    16,2   16.2   16.2   16.2    71.1    J
FENCING                ad      -    2.000     5,000     5,000     51000     5,000    22,000 10.8     -  21.6   53*9   53.9   53.9   53.9   237.2
STAKING                od      -      800    2.000      2,000     2,000    2.000      8BOO 10.8      -   8.6   21.6   21,6   21.6   21.6    94.9
PITTING                ad      -    6,400    16,00    16,00    16b000    16,000    70,400 10.8       -  69.0  172.5  172.5  172.5  172.5   758.9
PLANT DISTR            ad      -      200       500       500       500       500      2,200 10.8    -    2.2    5.4      5.4    5.4    5.4    23.7
PLANTING               ad      -    4,400    11,000    11,000    11,000    11,000    48t400 10.B     -  474   118,6  118,6  118t8  118.6   521.8
FILLING BLANKS         ad      -        -    1,200      3000      3.000     3,000     10,200 10*8    -      -    12.9   32.3   32.3   32.3   110.0
FERTILIZER APPL        ad      -         -    2.800     7,000    7tOOO      7,000    23,800 10,8     -      -   30.2   75.5   75.5   75.5   256.6
SOWING LEGUME FODDER   ad      -        -    1,000    2,500       2P500    29500       8,500 10.8    -      -    10.8   27.0   27.0   27.0    91.6
WEEDING                ad      -        -   15,000    43,500    56.500   62,500   177,500 10.8       -      -   161.7  468.9  609.1  6/3.7  1913,5
Sub-Total LABOR                                                                                         - 295.4  954.0 1,342.1 1,482.3 1,546.9 5U.7
rotal INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                     - 667,8 1,965.6 2t474.6 29614.7 29679*4 100402.0
=:==Z= ========== ======= ======= =2====== ==x . =
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                        -  667.8 1,965.6 29474,6 2,614.7 2,679.4 10,402,0
Hag 13 1983  11:48



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
PROMOTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF IMPROVED STOVES
Detailed Cost lable
Base Costs
QuantitY                                                (NRs. '000)
U_--___--__--_________--------------------- unit -------------------------------------------------
Unit 83/84 84185  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  Total   Cost 83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
STOVE CONSTRUCTION  /a                 No. 1,000  3,000  4,000  4,000  4,000  4,000  20,000 80.9   80.9  242.5  323.4  323,4  323.4  323.4 1,617.0
STORAGE OF STOVES  lb                   No. 1000  3,000  4,000  4,000  4,000  4,000  20,000  2.2    2.2    6.5    8.6    8.6    8.6    8.6    43.1
INSTALLATION /c                        No. 1,000  3,000  4R000  4,000  4,000  4,000  20,000 21.6   21.6   64.7   86.2   86.2   86.2   86.2   431.2
CERAMICS DESIGN  /d                              -      -       -      -       -      -       -        215.6  215.6   53.9   53.9   53.9   53.9   646.8        n
EXTENSION MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES                 -      -       -      -      -       -       -         53.9   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   10.8   107.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                    374.1  540.1  482.9  482.9  482.9  482.9 2,845.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                       374,1  540.1  482.9  482,9  482.9  482.? 2,845.9
/a AT NRs. 75 EACH (END 1982 PRICES)
/b  Rs 2 PER STOVE (END 1982 PRICES). TRANSPORT COSTS UNDER GENERAL TRANSPORT
ic AT NRs. 20 EACH (END 1982 PRICES)
/d R AND D CONTRACT
Mav 13, 1983 11:49
01-






S-UNITO  FOL IT)  V  JE)
uAQ0U  0.  STuFF [250T 
',ont:tn                                          oU~~~~~~~~tR;,  '020)
Unit 33,BA BA/USU5    U U5B6 O  UT'7  7'BU TB'BT Total  Unit 2ost  U3/B4   G4/US   US/B6   86/UT    U7YUU    8U/UT    'otal
0. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PROJECT COTROINOTOON
oUST TO PROJECT COOORI9INATD                           I      I      0      I      0      U       9     I9OCT      1 . 2    19.2      19,2    19.2'    19.2      19.21    015.3
CLERR                                                  I      1      1      1      1      1       U   7,210,3       72  ,2        7.2  7~2      72       7.2      7.2       43.3
0.5TtlPROJECT COORDINATION                                                                                       20.4    26.4      21.4    26,4    26.4    26.4         05061
B, 216061TY FORESTRY
U, CPUS
So CHIEF CONUERVATOR FORESTS                        1     1      1      0      U      5       6  30,502.0    311.    3 16         3005    31.1    30.5        302~    UB9.1
OEBO TERAI COAM. FOR. PROJ UNIT                     1     1      i      1      1      1       6  311512.1       31.5    3105    3111       317'    30.5       30.5     18991
00,1 ROBITOBING 0640 EUALUATION                     1     1      1      1      I      1       A    19.210    o9.2        09.2    10.2    19.2    19.2         I9.2     olTO3
hOTIURTION BNO  EOUCATIOS                     0      1      1      5      I      1       6    09,210    10.2       19.2     13.2      19,2     19.2     19.2      005.3
00000 INPROUENENT                             1      1      1      1      1      1       6    19,210      19.2     19.2      10.2    19.2    19.2       10.2      115.9
COMMUNITY PLANTING                            I      1      1      I      1      1       6    19.210      10.2    00.2      19.2      19.2    19.2      19.2      115.3
SOTATITICAL TABULATOR                              0      1      0      1      1      0       6    U9,21U       19.2    19.2      19.2    69.2    IT.2        14,2     102.1
RANGER1OOTA COLLECTION                              1     1      1      1      0      1       6    15,562    tO6    1iSo          15.6      15,6    15,6    12.6        93.4
CLFRRR                                             2       2     2     72      2 2           12   9.A09.2       lB.  1.9 l8?       B.?     Is.?    1B,9       lB.9    113.6
TOPIOT                                             2       2     21     2      2      2      12   T,UOA.0       15.3    151.      10.3     05.3      13.3     15.3      92,0
DRIVERRS                                           4      4      4      A      4      4      24   99632.6       38.7    39,1    39.0        39.7    36.0      TB.)    :32.4
WATCHMEN/PEONS                                      9     3      3      .0     3      3      19   5,122.7       15.4     15,4    15.4       15,4     15.4     15.4      9.
Subo-Ttota  CR00                                                                                                  263.0   293.0   200.6    263.0   263.0   263.0  1,5/9.U
2. TERRITORIAL DIVISIONS3
C0OMM6410Y FDRESTR9 OPPICER                         7     7      0      0      7      7      42     19,21U   034.5    134.5   134.5   134,0   139.1   134.5    U06,R
Ct6hUtNITY RANGERS                                26    52    0  65    65  95         5    339      15,562   404.0   U09.2 1,091.0 1,011.5 1.010,5 1,011.0  2,260.0
OUPERVIRIR9S /b                                    7      04    21   A20          21 2      105   2,233.9       05.9    36,7    40.5    42.0    A7.5    42.5    237,7
CLERRS                                             97    I  14 1       14    14      14      77   0,460.2    90.3   132.6   132,0    932.6   132.6   132.6             729.0
hOTIBBTORO/BTIVE PROMOTERS /                      22    91   195   270   293   293  1.159   3,900.0    BB.3   3209,   706.9 1.047.9 1,130.1 10037.1  4.407.B
P00000 NATCHERS  /o              -      -    23    60~~~~~~~8   090   270    503   5,122.7       -        - 117.9   430.4   999,9 1,391.1  3,920.3
PEONS                                                     7      7      7      7      7      42   5,122.7    20.9    25.9          0. 35.9      3     0. 3.9    30.9    210.2
OATC9REN                                          04     14    14    04    14    14          644   5,122.7      90.7     91,7    71.3       90.2     O1.7    01.0      430.3
DRIBERS                                            9      7      7      7       T     3      42   9.692.6   6iTO         67.9     69,9     67.9    00.9       90.9     400.'
5,0-Total TERRITORIAL DIVISIONS                                                                                   0905.0 1,913.2 2,306,U 2,994,7 30937.5 4,021.7 11,5IB,B
Uu6-lotol C94M96I10  PORESTRY                                                                                      1,149.0 1,376.2 2,6390.  3,247,7 3i900.5 4,294.7 1T,09o,0
C. 00410 AGRO-PURESTRY PLANTOT 1964
1. [PRO
ATTACHIED OPPOCER                                         1             1          1  0             19.210        i-    1          9.2  19.7 1.2     19.2    '19.2      00.0
2. IN FRBEST CIRCLES
0LANT09TI0N OFFICER                                -      6      U      B      3      9      39     14,210         - 115.3    153.7   153.7,  153,7   103.0            730.0
RANGERS FOR LAND CLEARING                                 6      0      0      B      5      'J9    105026         -     93,49 124.1    124.0   12.4.0   024.5         500.4
RANGERS P0R PLANTUTIOOS                             -            U      B      0      9      30     10.002         -     93.4   024.0   024.5   024.5   124.5    591.4
B901 RAOGERSOR 100  00000                                 6      a      0      B      B      39  13,311.1          -    70.0    106,52     O, 106.0    100.  10.        000.9
FBRT-TI64  U 0PERVISORS                                  24    32      32    32      32    102   2,263,9                 54.0     72,4      72.4    02.4      92.4     044.1
CLERRKS                                                   6      a      B      9      9      389,4.A9.2            -      6.6     05.6    75.0       75.3    7S.9      359.0
ACCOUNT TP90                                              6      U      9      9      9      39   0,469.2          -     59,9     05.9      01.9     00.9     lOB8    109.0
TYPISTS                                                   6      9      B      9      9      39   7,094.9                46AO0    01.3    60.3    01.3        01.3     291.3
CR090s                                                    b      9      B      9      0      39   5f122.0          -      0.9     41.0      41.0    410.      41.0     104.7
WATCHMEN                                                   6      a     9      9      9      33   5,122.7          -      00.     40.0     41.0    41OU       41.0     19.
DRIVERS                                                   6      U      B      9      9      39   9,692.9          -    0.1       07.5     07.0    77.5       77.5     360,0
TRACTOB 0PERATORS                                         6      9      B      9      A      33  11,040.9                66s.2    99,3    99.3       94.3    69.3      419.3
But-Total 00N POREST CIRCES.E                                                                                          -   781.6 1,042.2 1,042.2 1,042.2 1,042,2  4.950.0
Bo,-Total STBTE A0R0-FORESTRY PL0NTATION9                                                                                 -   GoBS  1,0,0.4 0.061,4 1,061.4 0,091.4  5,046.4
D, NATURAL POREST IMPROVEME9NT
900T0900 OPPICER                                       -             7      0      0      0      35    00,210         - 134A5   134.5   134,5   034.5   034.5              672.3
RANBEBO                                                       7    14    04       14    14       63    05,562         - 109.9   2t7.9    217.9   217.9   217,9             990.4
Su.b-Total NATURAL POREST INPROVEENET                                                                                     -   243.4   352.9   352.3   352.3   312.3  1,932.9
E. REOARCK
SILIOICUL0RIST-                                               0  I          6      1      1       0  23,794.3         -      3.9      23.9     23.9     23.9     23.9      11B.R
A00T 9ILVICULT0RIBIT                                          -      1      2      2      2       7    19,210          -        -    19.2    39.4    39.4    39.4          034.0
R944990                                                       2      A      5      5      0      26     15.592        -     31.1      92.2     07.8    97.9B    00.9       326,6
FOREST GUARDS                                                 2      4      0      0      5      21   5,122.7               1 0.2     20.5    25.6    25.9    20.0         107.6
DRIVERS                                                -      I      1      I      0      1       5   9,692.96                9.9      9.7      9.7      9,9      9.7       49.4
TRACTOR OPERATORS                                      -      I      1      1      I      1       0  11,940.9                11.2     10.0     61.9     01.0     11,0       05.2
Sit-Total RESARCH                                                                                                         -     895.9   140.5   168.4   196.4   199.4         701.4
P. NATIONAL FORESTRY PLANNING OFFICE
BOPO  PLANNING                                         -      -      2      2      2      2       9  29,799.3          -        -     49.9     49.6    49.9    49.0    100.3
CLERKS9                                                       -      2      21     2      2       894,409.2            -        -     19.9     19.0     09.9      69.9      70,9
TYPISTS                                                              2      2      2      2       9   7,964.6          -        -     10.3    15.3      10.3      15.3      01.3
PEONS                                                  -             I      I      0      1       A   0,122.7          -                .1      5.1      5.1      0.1       23.5
DRIVERS                                                -             I      1      1      1       A   7,664,6          -        -      7.7      7.7      9.7       7.7      30.7
Ott-Total N49910648L PORESTRY PLANNING OFFICE                                                                             -         -    04.0     94,6    94.0       04.6    378.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                  1,175,3 3,932.9 4,329.3 4,996.8 0,621.0  ,0,905.  25,124.5
Total GASELINE CR919                                                                                                    0,175.2 2,032.7 4,320.3 4,008.8 5,621.0 6,905.8 25,124.0
/a  INCLUDING9 9400 S9LARY,P94D,DAILY,TRN9EL, AD4  PROJEC1 ALLOWA8NCIESG
96 PART-11NE: BASED ON NRs 5199790AR TEND 6982 PRICES)
I, PAR9-TI640 BASED IN NRs 36009/994 00640 0982 PRICES)
/d  BA64009 04   NRTCI4ER PER PA440445A4
No.  13, 6983  11149>






-55-                                          AOOII
mA                                            . ble  7
SECOSII FORETR PRWECT
WHICLES AHD EOIPIENT
Detailed Coot Table
8se Costs
lsolits                                                    llRs. low)
tit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 89/89 Totl Unit Cost 83/84   84/85    65/84   86/87   87/88   NI/8   Totai
1. IWMESTlENT COSTS
A. COMIJMITY FORESTRY
CARS                                           3                                   3291,376.3  874.1                                              074.1
TRUCK 7-TOM (STOWE8)                           1                 -                 1594,134.5  594.1                                               594.1
NISC EXTENSIO NII OTH0R ECW                    I    -143,044.7  143.0                                        _-      -_                      - 143.0
PIC8-lW                                        7        -        -    -      -     7 310,725.5 2,1/5.1       -       -      -       -       - 2,175.1
NOTORCYCLES                                   26     -    13     -           -   39  19,349.2  503.1          - 251.5        -                     /4.6
BICYCLES                                       -   26      -    13           - 39        568.5             14.8             7.4                     22.2
Suk-Total COIMMITY FTRESTRY                                                                       4,289.5    14.8  251.5    7.4         -       -  4,53.2
S. STATE A08R-FORESTRY PTABTATIONS
HEAVY DUTY PICK-UP                             -           2     -    -      -    8 5S4,134.5        - 3,564.8 1,188.3       -       -       -  4,753.1
iOTORCYCLES                                    -    6    2       -     -    -      9 19,349.2        -    116.1   38.7        -      -       -    154.8
TRACTiCS 75HP                                  -    6    2       -    -      -    8 556,983.2        - 3,341.9 1,114.0        -       -      -  4,455.9
TRAILERS tTON                                  -    6    2       -     -     -    a 116,966.5        -    701.8  233.9       -       -       -   935.7
Sf0RAT6R 30090                                 -    6    2       -    -      -    8 477,087.7        - 2,862.5  954.2         -      -        - 3,816.7
0ISC EC, SETS                                  -     6    2      -     -     -    8 113.056.7        - 01.9  227.3                                909.3
Sub-Total STATE 0GRt-FFESTRY PLAMTATIONS                                                                - 11,209.1 3,756.4      -       -       - S,02C5.4
C. RE8ECH
HEA0Y DTY1 PICK-UP                             1  -                                11594,134.5  594.1-        -      -       -      -       -     S4.1
NOTINCYCLES                                    3    2         -        -    -      5 19,149.2   58.0    38.7                                       96.7
TRACTORS 751P                                  I    -                              1 550,525.5  550.5        -       -       -      -       -      50.5
TRAILERS cTON                                  I                                  1 115,610.4   115.6        -                     115.6
IlPLtENTS SETS                             I                     I I2,683.9    2,7                   -       -       -        -192.7
01SC EC, SETS                                  I              - _        -         1 136,388 14.4            -       -       -      -       - 136.4
IMFO MATERIAL                                                 -                   -              22.6               --                      -      22
Sub-Total RESE11C                                                                                 1,070.0    38.7       -       -       -       -  i,708.7
D. MATINAL FOIEST IOPR0OEMENT
HOTORCYCLES                                    7    -7  19,049.2  135.4                                    -       -               135.4
BICYCLES                                       7     7     -     -     -     -   14    568.5    4.0         4.0              -                      8.0
Su-Total MATINAL FOREST IIIPOWENENT                                                                 139.4      4.0      -       -       -       -   143.4
E. MATIOWIMI. FORESTRY PLANNING OFFIME
CABS                                           I -I 291,370.3 291.4                                          -                                    291.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                               6,390.2 11,2t6.5 4,007,9    7.4       -       - 21,732.0
11. RECISEOT COSTS
A. OPERATION AND MAIMTEINMCE COSTS
1. COlMUNITY FORESTRY
CARS                                                                                         174.8   174.8  174.8  174.8  174.8  1/4.8  1,049.0
TRICIS                                                                                       118.8   118.8  118.8  118.8  118.8  118.8   713.0
PICK-IF                                                                                      211.5   217.5  217.5  217.5  217.5  217.5  1,305.0
nOToRcYCLE                                                                                   201.2   201.2  301.8  301.8  301.8  301.8  1,609.9
BICYCLE                                                                                          -     3.0    3.0    4.4    4.4        4.4    19.2
Sub-Total CMEITY FORESTRY                                                                       712,4   715.3  816.0  817.4  817,4  817.4  4,096.0
2. STATE ARD-FORESTRY PL4MTATIOIS
0E06Y DMTY PICE  UP                                                                              -   38.5  475.3  475.3  475.3  4/5.3  2,257.7
UTIORCYCLES                                                                                            46.4   61.9    41.9    61.9    61.9    214.1
TRACTWR/TRAILERS                                                      -                              404.4  539.2  539.2  539.2  539.2  2,561.0
WNIEPATOR                                                                                        -   sn2.s  763.3  763.3  763.3  763.1  3,025.9
Oub-Totl STATE   R-FORESTRY PLANTATIONS                                                             -  1,379.8 1,839.7 1,839.7 1,839.7 1,839.7  8,730.7
3. RESERCH
PICK-IF                                                                                       59.4    594    59.4   594    59.4   59.4    36.5
NOTORCICLES                                                                                   23.2    38.7   38.7   38.7   38.7   38.7   216.7
TRACTOR7TRAILERS                                                                              66.6    66.6   66.6   04.6   66.6   66.6   399.7
Sub-Total RESEARCH                                                                              149.2   134.7  164.7  164.7  164.7  164.7   972.9
4. MATLIL FOREST III9MT
OTORCYCLES                                                                                    27.1    27.1   27,1   27.1   27.1   27.1   102.5
BICYCLES                                                                                       0.8      1.0    1.6      1.6    1.6    1.0       8.8
- Sub-Total NATUtAL FOREST I9R'E081                                                               27.9    28.7   28.7   28.7   28.7   28.7   171.3
5. NATIOIML FDRSTRY PLEIN  OFFIME
CAS-                                                                                          56.3    58.3   58.3   58.3   58.3 38.3   349.7
Ouk-Total WFERATITON M   AIMTEIANCE COSTS                                                          947.8  2.340.8 2,907.4 2,908.0 2,908.8 2,908.8 14,928.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                  947.8  2,344,8 2,907.4 2,908.8 2,900.8 2,908.8 14,92S.5
Total 8148EINE COSTS                                                                                 7I338.0 13,073.3 6,915.1 2,916.2 2.908,8 2,908.8 36,660.0
Mos 13, 1983 11:49



ANNEX IC
-56-.                                            Table 8
NEPAL
SECOOD FORESTRY PROJECT
IBUILDING FURNITURE MND, FITTIIOS
letaoI  Cost Table
Base Costs
wunttv                                                    (NRs.  000)
liUmt 83/84 8485 85/86 86/87 87/81  88/89 Total Ult Cost 83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87  87/88  sB/87   Iota]
I. INUESTHENT COSTS
A. COMUNITY FORESTRY
1. OFFICES
CFO OFFICES  /a                              7                                    7 151,064.6 1,057.5        -       -
FURNITURE                                                                                        U)8.i                                   ____ 
9004417060                                                               156.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---   ---- ---- ----   ------ -   -   -    -5.
Sub-Total OFFICES                                                                                 1216.1        -       -       -             -  1216.1
2. HQUSES
CFO 100.2                                    4     -      -     -     -     -     4 188,030.8   /55.3        -           -    -     -      -    /55.3
CR 60 .2                                    15   15      8      8     -     -    46 113,298.5 1,699.5 1,699.5   906.4   066.4       -      -  5,211.
JUNIOR STAFF 100(2 /b                        4    -  -       -                    4 138,846.2   555.4        -       -       -      -      -    555.4
INSPECTION QUARTERS 60 .2                    7                                       83.307.7  563.2         -               -53.
Sub-Total HOUSES                                                                                 3,593.3 1,699.5   906.4   906.4       -      -  7,105.6
Sub-Total C09UNITY FORESTRY                                                                         4/809.4 1,699.5   906.4   906.4       -      -   ,321,7
B. STATE A6RO-FORESTRY PLANTATIONS
PO OFFICES 120 2                                      6     2                  -    8   226,597        -1,359.6  453.2          -      -      -  1,612.6
NURSERY OFFICE/STORE 50 .2                      -     6     2      -     _     -     8  94,415.4       -   546.5   188.8        -      -      -    755.3
FURNITURE                                                       -     -              -                        5.2       -       -      -      -    385.2
HDUSE FOR PLANTATION OFF 100 .2                 -     4      1     -     -     -     5 1HH.830.8       -   155.3   18A.8        -      -      -    Y44.2
.:Ar7RS 60 2                          -    10     4     4      5     -    2i    86,640       -  866.4   346.6  346.6  433.2         -  1,992.7
BUNY HOUSES 120 2                               -     6     2      -     -           8 165,883.3       -   995.3  331.B         -      -      -  1,327.1
UEHICLE AND EOP SHEDS 80 .2                     -     6      2     -     -     -     8  70.776.9       -   424.7   141.6        -      -      -    566.2
GENERATOR HOUSE 30 .2                                 6            -     -     -     8  26,541.3       -   159,2    53.1        -      -      -    212.3
WATER SLPPLY                           set      -     6      2     -     -     -     8  33.176.7       -   199.1   66.4         -      -      -    24,4
PETROL/OIL STORE 25 *2                          -     6.   2       -     -     -     U  47,000.3       -   .82.0   94.0         -      -      -    376.0
Sub-Total STATE AGR4-FORESTRY PLANTATIONS                                                                  -5,993.3 1,864.2  346.6  433.2        -  s,637.2
C. RESEARCH
OFFICE/STORE R688  40 a2                        -     I                              1  75,532.3       -    75.5        -       -      -      -     75.5
RANGERRNDSE 60. 2                               3                               3  83,307.7  249.9         -                                  249.9
FOREST GUARD HOUSE 50 .2                        3      -     -     -     -     -     3  69,423.1  208.3         -       -       -      -      -    208.3
COVERED IRINGAR       O*2                        1-    -    -    -         -     -      888b61.6    88.9        -       -       -      -      -     88.9
EP SHELTER  0 2                                 1                               1  71,009.2    11.1        -       -       -      -      -      71.1
HATER SUPPLY                           set       I1  16,661.5    16.7                                          -       -       -      -      -      16.7
Sub-Total RESEARCH                                                                                    634.8    75.5        -       -      -           710.3
D. ARCHITECT/PROFESSIONAL COSTS
ARCHITECT I ENGINEERING FEES                    -                                                 392.1   374.5  151.6   100.2  34.7         -  1,053.0
Total INUESTHENT COSTS                                                                                 5,836.3 8,142.8 2,922.2 1,353.2  467.9       - 18,722.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. BUILDING KAINTENHHCE
1. CONHONITY FORESTRY
OFFICES                                                                                            -    15.9    15.9   15.9   15.9   15.9       79.3
HQUSES                                      -     -     -      -     -5-                  -             53.9   79.4    93,0  106.6  106,6    439.4
Sub-Total CObNUNITY FORESTRY                                                                           -    69.8   95.3   108.8  122.4  122.4   518.8
2. STATE AGRO-FORESTRY PLANTATIONS
OFFICES                                                                                            -       -    23.9    30.5   38.5  38.5   144.5
HUSES                                                                                              -       -    39.3   52.3   57.5  64.0    212.9
SHEB3                                                                                              -       -    56.0    21,3   21.3  21.3       79,7
Sub-Total STATE AGRO-FORESTRY PLANTATIONS                                                              -       -    84.1   112.1  117.3  123.8   437.3
3. RESEARCH
DFFICES                                                                                            -       -      1.1     1.1    1.1    1.1      4-5
HOUSES                                                                  -                                 6.9     6.9     6,9    6.9    6.9     34.4
SHS-                                                           -                                   -     2.4      2.4     2,4    2.4   524      12.0
Stb-Total RESEARCH                                                                                    -      9.3    10.4    10.4  10.4   10.4    50.9
Sub-Total BUILDINA  MINTEAMCE                                                                             -    79,0   189.0  231.3  250.1  256.6  1,O06.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                         -    79.0  189S8   231.3  250.1 256,6  1,006.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                    5,836.3 8,221.8 3,111.9 1,504.5  718.0  256.6 19, 729 .1
a 80 *2 INCLUD0IW STORE MAD REETING 8De8
/b SHARM
Has 13, 1983 11149



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
NURSERY CONSTRUCTION la
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Ouantitv                                                  (NRs. '000)
----------------------------------------------------- Unlt ------------------------------------------------
Unit  83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88  88/89 Total   Cost 83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. MATERIALS
WIRE                       ks    6,020   9,380  15,400  10,500   7,000       -  48,300 14.2   85.3  132.9  218.2  148.8  9Y.2          -   684.4
WELL CONSTRUCTION  /b                -        -       -        -       -     -        -        70.0  109.0  179.0  122.1   81.4        -   561.5
CEMENT                     kg   11,825  18,425  30,250  20,625  139750       -  94,875  2.5   29.5   45.?   75,4   51.4   34.3         -   236.4
OTHER /c                             -        -       -                -     -        -         9.3   14.5   23.9   16.3   10.8        -    74.9
Sub-Total MATERIALS                                                                               194.1  302.4  496.5  338.5  225.7       - 1,557.2
B. LABOR
FENCING                    ad      430      670   1,100     750      500     -   3,450 10.8    4,6    7.2   11.9    8.1    5.4         -    37.2
WATER TANK CONSTR          ed      215      335     550     375      250     -   1,725 10.8    2.3    3.6    5.9    4.0    2.7         -    18.6
SHED CONSTR                ad    1,290   2,010   3,300   2,250   1,500       -  10,350 10.8   13.9   21.7   35.6   24.3   16.2         -   111,6
LEVELLING                  ad    1.290   2,010   3,300   2,250   1,500       -  10,350 10.8   13.9   21.7   35.6   24.3   16.2         -   111.6
Sub-Total LABOR                                                                                    34.8   54.2   88.9   60.6   40,4       -   278.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                               228.9  356.6  585.4  399.2  266.1       -1836.1
fotal BASELINE COSTS                                                                                 228.9  356.6  585.4  399.2  266.1        - 1,836.1
/a  60,000 CAPACITY. 48,000 USABLE PLANTS PER ANNUM PER NURSERY.  ESTABLISHMENT OF A TOTAL
OF 345 NURSERIES, PHASED OVER FIRST 5 PROJECT YEARS AS: 43, 67, 110, 75, AND 50.
lb  ON CONTRACTS
/c  POTTING SHED
Ma8 13, 1983 11:48



-58-                                                     ANNEX  II
Table 10
NEPAL
SECOND FOREStRY PROJECT
STATE AGRO-FORESTRY PLANTATIONS
Detailed Cost Table
Vase Costs
Suantitv                                                                tNRs. 000;
--------------------------------------------------------------------- Unlt --------------------------------------------------------
Unit 83184  84/85    85/86        86e/7      B7/88       80/89       Total      Cost 83/84  84185    5/806   6o/87    07/SO      81100   lotal
1. INVESTMENT CISTS
A. FORESTRY ACTIVITIES
1. MATERIAL
PLANTS                           -           1,051,100  2.450.000  3,325,00Q  3,500,000  10,325,000  0.5          -           SS6.9  1,320.o  1,792.2 1,006.5  5,555.2
WIRE                     kg       -       -     30,000      70,000      95,000    100,000       295,000 14.2      -       -   425,i    991.9  1.,14s. 1,417.t  4.186,2
FERTILIZER               Kg       -       -           -     42,000      98,ooo    133,000      273,000  b.H       -       -        -    241.      b64.1  /bS.6  1,5T1.5
Sub-Total MATERIAL                                                                                                   -       -   ?91.1  2.554-2  A,722.0 4,060.1 11,316-i
2. LABOR
FELLING                  ad      -  57,000    133.00       i6U,SOO    190,000 l60,500 10.8                        -   014.5 1,433,7  1,945.Y  2,048.2         -  5,Q42.2
STAClING                 ad       -  12,000     28,000      30,000      40,000           -      111,00O 10.8      -   129.4   ICI.0    409.0    431,2          -  .,272.G
FENCING                  ad       -   o,000     14,000      19,000      20,000           -      59,000 10.0       -    64.7   150.?    204.8    215.0          -    636.0
STAKING                  ko       -   2,400      5s600       7.600        80-                    H,J08 10.2       -    25.9   60.4    b8.9         8b.;        -    254.4
PITTING                  ad               -     19,200      44,800      SO,800      64,000     18e,800 10.S       -       -   207.0    402.9    655.4   oY9.9  ,035.3
PLANT PISTR              ad       -       -         600      1,400       190oo       2,000        0,900 10.8      -       -      6.5     15.1      20.5    21.b      03.6
PLANTING                 d       -        -     13,200      30,800      41,800      44,000     129,880 10.0      -        -   142.3    332.o    450.   4/4.3  1,399.2
FILLING SLANS            I ad    -            -       -      3,60'       8,400      11,400      23,400 10.S       -       -        -     3S.0      90.6   122.9    252.3
FERT APPLICATION         ad      -        -           -      S,400      10,600      26,600      54,600 10.8       -       -        -     90.o    211.3   2t.-s   080.6
Sub-Total LABOR                                                                                                      -   834.4 2,302.6  3.601.6  4,209,6 1,595.4 12,543.o
Sub-Total FORESTRY ACTIVITIES                                                                                           -   834.4 3,293.7  6,155.8  7,912.1 5,664.6  3,000.5
B. AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES
1, MAIZE
SEEDS                    kg      -   8,640      2s,00a      43,040      50,08E      22,400     151,040  2.2            18.6    SO.Q      ?2.8    IOS.0    48.3    025.6
NITROGEN                 kg       -  34,808    107,600    171,800    199,600        8B8OOO      0o1o,00  7.7      -   269.2   832.4  1,329.0  1,544.1   t80.7  4,655.4
PHOSPHATE                k8      -  16,800      52,400      04.000      97,800      44.000     295,000  6.6      -   110.0   345.7    554.2    645.3  290.3  1.946.5
POTASH                   kg      -   8,400      25.600      40.600      47,000      20,000      141,600    3      -    24.8    75.7    120.1    139.0    59.2    418.8
CHENICALS                kg      -        -           -          -           -           -            -          -    36.9   114.7    183.6    213.6    95,6    644.3
DRAFT                    Po       -  12.00R     37,600      60,400      70,400      32,000     212,400 19.4       -   232.8   r9,   0 1,172.0  1,368.0   620.9  4,121.4
Sub-Total MAIZE                                                                                                      -   693.2 2,156.0  3.451.7  4,016.0 1,795.0 12,112.1
2. SES06U1
SEEDS                    kg      -      540      1,260       1.710       180OO           -       5,310  3.2       -     1.7     4.1       5.5       5.0       -      172
DRAFT                    Pd      -   3,600       8,400      11400       12000            -      35,400 19.4      -    69,9   163.0    221.2    232.8          -    606,9
Sub-Tota; SESAKUK                                                                                                    -    71.6   167.1    223.7    238.7          -    704.1
3. PULSES
SEEDS                    kg      -        -      1.620       5,040       8,958      11,462      27,080  4.9      -        -     7.9      24.4     43.5    55.6    131.4
DRAFT                    Pd       -       -      1,200       4,080      6b600        7,800       19,600 I,4      -       -    23.3      77.6    128.1   151.4    380.3
Sub-Total PULSES                                                                                                         -         31.1    102.1    171.5   207,0    511.7
4. LINSEED
SEEDS                    68       -       -         360        840       1,140       1,200        3.540  2.4      -       -     1.9       4.5       6.0     6.5      19.1
DRAFT                    Pd       -       -       0s208      2.800       3,800       4,000      11,800 I.4      -        -    23.3      54.3     73.7    77.6    229.0
Sub-Total LINSEED                                                                                                    -       -    25.2      58.9      79.9    84,1    248.0
5. FINGER NILLET
SEEDS                     g      -        -        216         660       1.048       1.214        3,138  1.     -        -     0.3       1.1       1.7     2.0       5.1
DRAFT                    Pd      -        -      1,200       4.000       6,600       7,800      19,6O0 19.4      -              23. 3    77.6    128.1   151.4    380.3
Sub-Total FINGER MILLET                                                                                              -       -    23.6      78.7    129.8   153.3    385.4
6. NUSTARD
SEEDS                    kg       -       -         360      1.152       1.868       2,180        5,518    6      -             2.2       7.0      11,3    13.2      33.6
DRAFT                    ad       -       -      1.200       4,000       6.600       7,00o       19,600 19.4      -       -    23.3      77.6    128.1   151.4    380.3
Sub-Total MUSTARD                                                                                                    -       -    25.5      84.6    139.3   164.6    413.9
Sub-Total AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES                                                                                       -   764.8 2,428.6  4,002.7  4,775.2 2,403.9 14,375.2
Total INAESTNENT COSTS                                                                                                     - 1,599.2 5,722.2 io,SU.5 12,687.3 0,068.5 30,235.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                        - 1,599.2 5,722.2 i0,158.5 12,607.3 8,068.5 38,235,7
Nas 132 1903 11:48



ANNEX II
-59-                                         Table  11
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJEC1
STATE AGRO-FORESTRY NURSERY CONSTRUCTION COSTS la
Letailed Cost Table
Base Costs
guanttit                                                   (MNRs. '000)
Unit 83/84 84/85  85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 lotal  Unit Lost 81/84  84/85   85/86  86/87 87/88 88/89 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS
IMPLEMENT SHED 50 o2                          -       6     2      -     -      -       8  44,235.6      -   265.4    88.5      -      -      -   a53.i
GERMINATION SHED 20 a2                         -      6                 2 -  -  -       8  17,654.2      -   106.2    35.4       -     -      -   141.6
SOIL TREATMENT/PGTTING SHED 50 a2              -      6      2     -      -     -       8  43,817.2      - . 62.9    87.6        -     -      -   350.5
GENERATOR SHED 9 .2                            -      6      2     -      -     -       8   7,962.4      -    47.8    15.9       -     -      -    63.7
PUMP HOUSE 15 a2                               -      6      2     -      -     -       8  13P270.7      -    79.6    26.5       -     -      -   106.2
Sub-Total BUILDINGS                                                                                         -   161.9   254.0       -     -      - 19015.8
B. EQ1UIPMENT
PUIP 5 HP                                      -      6      2     -      -     -       8  27,821.5      -   166.9    b5.6       -     -     -   222.6
GENERATOR 240 V 1OKVA                          -      6      2     -      -     -       8 111,983.3      -   671.9   224.0       -     -      -   895.9
SOIL SHREDDER                                  -      6      2     -      -     -       8    72,336      -   434.0   144.7       -     -      -   578.7
CONCRETE MIXER 0.5 n3                          -      6      2     -      -     -       B  66,771.7      -   400.6   133.5       -     -      -   534.2
REFRIGERATOR                                   -      6      2     -      -     -       8  31,160.1      -   1i7.0    62.3       -     -      -   249.3
iEIGHING SCALE AND MISC                        -      6      2     -      -     -       8  38,950.1      -   233.7    7/.9       -     -      -   311.6
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                                                           2,094.1   698.0       -     -      - 2,792.2
C. OTHER /b
WELL DIGGING 50 FT /c                          -      -      -     -      -     -       -                -    19.5      6.5     -      -      -    i6.0
WELL LINING                                    -      -      -     -      -     -       -                -    45.3    15.1       -     -     -    60.4
WATERTANK 150000 LITRE                         -      -      -     -      -     -       -                -    97.0    32.3       -     -     -   129.4
HARD STANDING 120 R2                           -      -      -     -      -     -       -                -   226.4    75.5       -     -      -   301.8
FENCING WIRE 400 KG                            -  2,400   800      -      -     -  3,200       14.2      -    34.0    11.3       -     -     -    45.3
Sub-Total OTHER /b                                                                                          -   422.2   140.7       -     -      -   563.0
D. LABOR
FENCING                               ad       -    240    80      -      -     -    320       10.8      -     2.6      0.y     -      -     -      3.4
OTHER                                 ad       -    600   200      -      -     -    800       10.8      -     6.5      2.2      -     -      -     8.6
Sub-Total LABOR                                                                                             -      9.1     3.0      -     -      -    12.1
-Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                         - 3,287.3 1,095.8       -     -      - 4,383.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                            - 3,287.3 1,095.8             -        49383.0
/a 580,000 CAPACITY INCL. CULLING ALLOWANCE PER NURSERY. A TOTAL OF 8 NURSERIES NOULD BE
CONSTRUCTED: 6 IN SECOND PROJECT YEAR AND 2 IN THIRD YEAR
/b MATERIALS AND CONTRACT WORKS
/c Rs. 50/FT UP TO 25 FT, Rs. 75/FT BELOW 25 FT ON CONTRACT lEND 1982 PRICES)
Mas 13, 1983 11:49



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
IMPROVEMENT OF NATURAL FORESTS
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Cuantitg                                                  (NRs. '000)
------------- ------------- --------------------------   Unit   ------- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --
Unit 83184  84/85   85/86   86/87   B7/88   88/89   Total    Cost 83/84 84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  Total
I. INV'ESTMENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT AND TOOLS  /a              -       -       -        -       -       -          -          -  222.3       -      -       -      -   222.3
B. EOP OPER AND MAINT                   -       -       -        -       -       -          -          -   63.5   63.5   63.5   63.5   63.5   317.6
C. LINE PLOT SURVEY
FOREMAN /b                  *d       -     700       -       -        -       -       700 16.2      -   11.3       -      -      -       -    11.3
LABOR                       ad       -   3,500       -       -        -       -     3,500 10.8      -   37.7       -      -       -      -    37.7
Sub-Total LINE PLOT SURVEY                                                                             -   49.0              -       -      -    49.0    c.l
D. TREATMENT FELLING
FOREMAN /b                  ad       -   39500   3,500   3,500   3,500  3M500    176S00 16.2        -   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   56.6   283.0
LABOR                        ad      -  28,000  28,000  28i000  28000  28,00O   140,000 10.8       -  301.8  301.8  301.8  301.B  301.8 1,509.2
Sub-Total TREATMENT FELLING                                                                            -  358.4  358.4  358.4  358.4  358.4 1,792.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                    -  693.3  422.0  422.0  422.0  422.0 2,381.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                       -  693.3  422.0  422.0  422.0  422.0 2,381.1
/a COMPASSES, CHAINSt AXES' CLINOMETERS, SAWS, CALCULATORS
lb SKILLED LABOR
Mau 13i 1983  11:'48



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
RESEARCH OPERATIONAL COSTS
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Uuantitv                                            (NRs. '000)
_-- _________----__--__--_------------ Unit -----------------------------------
Unit 83/84  84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  Cost 83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  8/88  88/89 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. NURSERY
ESTABLISHMENT COSTS                ad   4,000     -     -      -     -     -  4,000 10.8   43.1       -       -      -      -      -    43.1
P AND D                                     -     -     -      -     -     -      -        242.5  242.5  242.5  242.5  242.5       - 1,212.7
Sub-Total NURSERY                                                                             285.7  242.5  242.5  242.5  242.5       - 1,255.9
B. FIELD TRIALS
_  _   _   _  _   _  _  _ -_
STUDIES /b                                  -     -     -      -     -     -      -         43.1   43.1   43.1   43.1   43.1       -   215.6
INSTALL METEOROLOGICAL STATION              -     -     -     -      -     -      -          2.2      -       -      -      -      -     2.2
BAMBOOS AND POPLAR                          -     -     -      -     -     -      -         32.3   32.3   32.3   32.3   32.3       -   161.7
Sub-Total FIELD TRIALS                                                                         77.7   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5       -   379,5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                           363.3  318.0  318.0  318.0  318.0       - 1635.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                              363.3  318,0  318.0  318.0  318.0       - 1,635.4
/a INCLUDING PRODUCTION OF PLANTS FOR RESEARCH AT 5 NURSERIES
/b INCLUDING SPECIES AND PROVENANCE TRIALS AND GROWTH AND YIELD STUDIES IN EAST, CENTRAL, AND WESTERN TERAI
Mau 13, 1983  11:49                                                                                                                                      ( x
Lo H



-  I       >-        a                    f            CI                                    ma                          ma                  10                                                                011                                                     a   I   
-~~~ 3   Iym    -                              -                                                                -0                   -                                                                 - cssBl.                                                --5'5ii   ''
*~~~~~~~~~~l                                                                 104O  0,  I          I    *    CII            ,0                     a                    ,        ~              a Ia___, a-4  _l  _ -
, ,                  l5                 o                                         rn-4-4--4--1   4l141-                 a  a   104                        m          c                       -      -4-       z14 -|
' _                                                                                                                                    c -         9      ~        a                                                         =,t_,,                            ,, ;-O  -      -<I- 'a 
= a  S    * 0,-j                                                                                                     I                                                         aRj5,
amIn~~~~CO  . . ,     Xf                                                 o1                                                 W       I                           ~                       a       ra      4     ,-      aCOl
aaaa~~~-  0                 44'0    1                                                  -          aa Ct    w          a          as     'a            _o                     111-       .-.lg  r,a,w   4   I040               
I        00                                  0-.9--  -4                                                                            SO a!s  I2o                    P         2Z1C o               i -X                   g-41 
I ~ ~  ~        ~        ~       ~       ~      ~       . a                               t-                -a        104       a o11 e0  -o -;_ - I _* o* c    ov   n | _t %t__ v s              .r>X_oe                      l              f
-~ >.!- .  -  -  s!                                 a                                           -                                                          -s   a- iig
i .,i *j > i ~~~~~~S                                                                                                       ia                                          j -              j~              .       aajj 
*aa Otnm  S|-a<                                                                                I  a     I        a      ,  a            |cn'   O,-  '1  a                   "ao                  I II        1 a } 2!
,i ii S li M i ' i 5 .                                                                                          ti?i s 1    
@ li~~~~~~-                                                                    141                         i        t                         i-                                    I~  t     iil 
11111~~~                                                                                                                           i  a i   -   r i                                            04                   10  ,.-M                    ><v  zEi
I   cw   ,  a  ,                                                                                                                      3                                        -,                             0rX6j    WosSI<>HH[om~Kt_s  3lo cv ;t sLl.  +' 



-63-                                             ANNEX  II
Table  15
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
i]Uatit.                                                     tNRs,  000)
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total Unit Cost  83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88  88/89   lotal
1. INVESTIENT COSTS
__________ _ ___
A. COMIUNlTY FORESTRY
CERAMICIST                                -       3      2     -     -      -     -      5   150,579   431.7   301.2         -       -        -      -    752.9
STOVE DESIGNER                            me      2      1     1      1     -     -      5   150.579   301.2   150.6   150.6   150.6          -      -    752.9
SOCIOLOGIST/ECONOMIST                     -       3      2     -     -      -     -      5   1506579   451.7   301.2         -       -        -      -    /52.9
ASSOCIATE EXPERT/VOLUNTEER                -      12    12    12      -      -     -    36  18,069.5   216.8   216.8   216.8          -       -       -    650.5
VOLUNTEERS                                mm     48    48    48      -      -     -   144  18,069.5   867.3   867.3   867.3          -       -       -  2,602.0
Sub-Total COMMUNITY FORESTRY                                                                            2,288.8 1837.1 19234.7   150.6          -      -  5,111.2
b. STATE AGRO-fORESTRY PLANTATIONS
PLANTATION ADVISOR                        -       -    12      6     3      3     -    24   150,579         - 1806.9   903.5   451.7   451.7        -  3P613.9
SILVICULTURIST                            m       -    12      6     6      3     3    30 105t405.3         - 19264.9   632.4   632.4   316.2  316.2  31I62.2
FIRE PROTECTION SPECIALIST                as      -      2     2     2      2     -     8   1509579         -   301.2   301.2   301.2   301.2        -  12u4.6
TRACTOR OPERATOR TRAINER                  ta      -      4     -      -     -     -      4 1050405.3        -   421.6        -       -        -      -    421.6
Sub-Total STATE AMRO-FORESTRY PLANTATlONS                                                                      - 3,794.6 1837.1 1,385.3 1,069.1  316.2  8P402.3
C. NATURAL FOREST IWPROVEMENT
NATURAL FOREST SPECIALIST                 a       -     6      6     -      -     -    12   1b0,579         -   903.5   903.$        -       -       -  1,806.9
D. NATIONAL FOREST DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
-------------------------------------
PLANNING ADVISOR                          so      -     -    12      -      -     -    12   150,S79        -        -1P806.9         -       -       -  1,806.9
INVENTORY SPECIALIST                      m       -     -      3     -     -      -     3   1505.9        -        -   451.7        -       -       -    451.7
Sub-Total NATIONAL FOREST DEVELOPMENT PLANNING                                                                 -       - 2.258.7        -        -      - 2,258.7
E. RESEARCH
SEED PROWREIENT SPECIALIST                m       -      4     3     3      2     -    12 105,405.3        -   421.6   316.2   316.2   210.8         -  1,264.9
F. TRAINING
EDUCATION/TRAINING SPECIALIST             me     12    12      -     -      -     -    24   150,579 1,806.9 1,806.9         -        -       -       -  3,613.9
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST                     m       3      2     -     -      -     -     5   1506579   451.7   301.2         -        -       -       -    752.9
SOCIOLOGIST                               -       2      1     2     1      -     -     6 105,405.3   210.8   105.4   210.8   105.4          -       -    632.4
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                                                      2,469.5 2,213.5   210.8   105.4         -       -  4,999.2
6. MIDTERM PROJECT REVIEW
TEAN LEADER                               ma      -     -      I     -      -     -     1   150,579        -        -   150.6        -       -       -    150.6
ECONOMIST                                  o      -      -     1     -      -     -     1   150,579        -        -   150.6        -       -       -    150.6
FORESTER (EDUC)                          mae      -     -      1     -      -     -     1   150,579        -        -   150.6        -       -       -    150.6
FORESTER (AGRO-FORESTRY)                  a       -      -     1     -      -     -      1   150,579       -        -   150.6        -       -       -    150.6
SOCIOLOGIST                           .    a      -      -     1     -      -     -     1   150,579         -       -   150.6        -       -       -    150.6
Sub-Total MIDTERM PROJECT REVIEW                                                                              -        -   752.9        -       -       -    752.9
H. 14NITORING AND EVALUATION
LOCAL SURVEY CONTRACTS                    he     10    10    20      5    10    25    80  14,229.6   142.3   142.3   284.6    71.1   142.3  355.7  1,138.4
MISC MONITORING SERVICES                  ae      5      2     2     2      2     2    15  140229.6    71.1    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5   28.5    213.4
Sub-Total MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                                                       213.4   170.8   313.1    99.6   170.8  384.2  1,351.8
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                                                                                      4,971.7 99341.0 7,826.9 2,057.1 1,450.7  700.4 26h347.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                         4,971.7 9,341.0 79826.9 2,057.1 1,450.7  700.4 26,347.9
Mla 13, 1783 11149



-64-                                          ANNEX  II
NEPAL                                        Table  16
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND FIRE PROTECTION  /a
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Quantiti                                                      lNRs.  000)
Unit   83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88  88/89  Total  Unit Cost 83/84 84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   Total.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. ROAD CONSTRUCTION /b
1. SURFACED ROADS
LABOR                           320 ad       -     6     8      8      8       8     38   3v449.6       -   20.7    27.6    27.6    27.6    27.6    131.1
GRAVEL                          600 a3       -     6     8      8      B       8     38    38.808       -  232.8   310.5   310.5   310.5   310.5  1.474.7
CEMENT                          1000 kg     -      6     8      8      8       8     38   2,492.1       -   15.0    1Y.9    19.9    19.9    19.9        94.7
Sub-Total SURFACED ROADS                                                                                   -  268.5   358.0   358.0   358.0   358.0  1,700.5
2. UNSURFACED ROADS
LABOR                           320 ad      -    12    16    16       16      16     76   3.449.6       -   41.4    55.2    55.2    55.2    55.2    262.2
GRAVEL                           30 e3       -    12    16    16      16      16     76   1.940.4       -   23.3    31.0    11.0    31.0    31.0    147.5
CEMENT                          500 kd9     -    12    16    16       16      16     76   1.257.4       -   15.1    20.1    20.1    20.1    20.1        95.6
Sub-Total UNSURFACED ROADS                                                                                 -   79.8   106.4   106.4   106.4   106.4    505-2
Sub-Total ROAD CONSTRUCTION  /b                                                                               -  348.3   464.4   464.4   464.4   464.4  2,205.7
Total INYESTMENT COSTS                                                                                           -  348.3   464.4   464.4   464.4   464.4  2.205.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ROAD MAINTENANCE /c
LABOR                              40 ad       -     -    18    42      66      90    216      431.2      -      -      7.8    18.1    28.5    38.8       93.1
GRAVEL                             30 *3       -     -    18    42      66      90    216    38,808       -      -   698.5 1,629.9 26561.3 3,492.7  B,382,5
Sub-Total ROAD MAINTENANCE  Ic                                                                               -       -   706.3 1,648.0 2M589.8 3.531.5  8.475.7
B. FIRE PROTECTION
CLEARING FIREBREAKS  /d             ad         -     -      -   360    900  1,620  2,880        10.8      -      -        -     3.9      9.7    17.5      31.0
PATROLS Ie                          ad         -     -      -   720  1,680  2,280  4,680        lOS      -      -        -     7.8    18.1    24.6       50.5
Sub-lotal FIRE PROTECTION                                                                                    -       -       -    11.6    27.8    42.0       81.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                            -       -   706.3 1,659.7 2,617.6 3,573.6  8,557.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                              -  348.3 1,170.7 2,124.0 3,082.0 4,037.9 10,762.9
/a  FOR STATE AGRO-FORESTRY PLANTATIONS
/b FOR 4 BLOCKS OF PLANTINGS BEGINNING IN YEAR 3
/c  AT 40 ad AND 30 s3 GRAVEL PER KM = NRs 2200 (END 1982 PRICES)
/d  30 ad/k. FOR FIRST CLEARING AND 15 ad/ka FOR SECOND
/e  1 MAN PER 100 ha FDR 120 DAYS/ YEAR
has 13, 1983 11:49



-65-                                          ANNTX  II
NEPAL                                        Tab le  17
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
WIUERSITY AND TRAININ6 WING CONSTRUCTION
Detailed Cost Table
Base tosts
Quantits                                             lNRs. '000)
-----------------------------------Unit-
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total Cost 83/84  84/85    85/86   86/87  87/fl  S8/89   lotal
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. POKHARA
1. BUILDINGS
WIORSHOP BUILDING                          -                                                -  2043.8         -      -                 2,043.8
CIMONAS BUILDING                                                    -                                -  1,3y0.5       -      -      -  1,398.5
ADNINISTRATION BLOCK B                                                                      -        -  1,555.1       -      -      -  1,555.1
STUDENT HOSTEL                             -     -,850.1                                                      - -  -  -                6,50.1
STAFF HOUSING                              -                                                -  6,697.9        -       -      -         6,697.9
Sub-Total BUILDINGS                                                                            - 15,591.9  2,953.5       -      -      - 18,545.4
2. SITE DEVELOPMENT
WATER SUPPLY                                                                                -        -    862.4       -      -      -    62.4
ROADS                                                                                       -        -2,106.7         -      -      -2,106.7
PEDESTRIAN PATH                                                                             -        -    176,3       -      -      -    176.3
FOOTBALL FIELD                                                                              -        -    666.2       -      -      -    666.2
RETAINING WALL                             -                                                         -    646.8       -                  646.8
REMAINING CIVIL WORKS                                                                 -          -      3,654.4       -      -      -  3,654.4
Sub-Total SITE DEVELOPMENT                                                                     -        -  8,112.8       -      -      -  u.1I2.0
3. OTHER
FURNITURE                                                                                   -  2,338.8    443.0       -      -      -  2,71.8
Sub-Total POKHARA                                                                                 - 17,930.7 11,509.4       -      -      - 29,440.1
B. HETAUDA
1. BUILDiNGS
SENIOR STAFF HOUSING                                                                        -  3,470.0        -       -      -      -  3,470.0
UNGELOR HOUSING                                                                                1,097.4        -       -      -      -  1,097.4
AUDITORILM                                                                                  -     90.9        -90,Y
Sub-Total BUILDINGS                                                                            -  5,358.4        -       -      -      -  5,358.4
2. OTHER
SITE DEVELOPHENT                                                                            -        -    179.1      -       -      -    179.1
FURNITURE                                                                                   -    903.8        -       -             -     03.8
Sub-Total OTHER                                                                                -    803.8    179.1       -      -      -    982.9
Sub-Total HETAUDA                                                                                 -  6162.1    179.1        -      -      -  6,341.2
C. TRAINING WING
2nd PHASE                                                                                      -  1,055.2        -       -      -      -  1,055.2
INTERNAL FINISHES                                                                              -    111.1        -       -      -      -    111.1
EQUIPMENT /a                                                                                   -    113.4        -       -      -      -    113.4
FURNITURE                                                                                      -    158.3         -      -      -      -    158.3
Sub-Total TRAINING WING                                                                           -  1,438.0         -      -      -      -  1,438.0
0. ARCHITECT/PROFESSIONAL COSTS
ARCHITECT I ENGINEERING FEES                                 --  1760.4    885.3                                         -      -         2,645.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                               - 27,291.2 12573.8        -      -       - 39,865.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. BUILDING lAINTENANCE /b
PkHARA--                                                                                      -    358.6   588.8  588.8  588.8 588.8  2,713.8
HETAUDA                                                                                       -    123.2    126.8  126.8  126.8  126.8    630.5
TRAINING WING                                                                                 -     21.1     21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1    105.5
Sub-Total BUILDING MAINTENANCE  /b                                                               -    503.0    736.7  /36.7  736.7  736.7  3,449.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                -    503.0    736.7  736.7  736.7  736.7  3,449.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                  - 271,94.1 13,310.6  736.7  736.7  736.7 43,314.9
la AUDIO-VISUALS
/b AT 21 OF CAPITAL COSTS PER YEAR
Mai 13, 1983 11149






NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECl
SUOaNs Account bs Tlie
Bas Ccsts
Base Costs                           t Price
eEs , 000)                           Cont. on  ForeIgn Exchanse
---------------------------------------   ------- -----------:ase  Costs  ----------------
Unit      Unit Cost       No. of Units  83/84   84185   85/86   i6/87   87US  t8/89   Total    I003  00         AT Aoont
1U IN0ESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVOL VOIKS
CONST95CTIbN                  70962.4-226,5T96,97            202   5,286  30,878  15,007   1,990   1,170       737    55.067       4.449  09.7      21,BI8
PKCNITECT FEES                                                 -      392   2,135   1,037      S00      35        -     3h697         299   0.0          0
Sub-Sital CIUIL WORKS                                                  5,670  33,013  16,044   2,090   1,20S       737    56,765       4,748  37.2     20,07
Ph-sitil Continsencies                                         -      565   1,225   1,579      209     120      74      5.775           -  37.3      2,151
Price CoontiLencles                                            -     261   4,524   3,745       652     4BU     362    10,023           -  31.5       3,155
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINEENCIES                                     6,506  40,761  21,367   2,951   1,805   1,172    74,5N3         4.74A  36.5      27,184
Taoes                                                          -      651   4,076   2,137      295     181      117     7,456           -   00           0
Foreisn EKrhanse                                               -   2,914  17,902   4,236   1,150       635     346    27h184                0.0          
D. VEHICLES 8ND EQUIPNENT
VEHICLES                       568.462-594.134.541           169   6,247  11,027   4,O8          7       -       -    210589       1,676  4977      10,737
E3UIPMENT                        14.17-t43,044.722         0,249      102  60100   1,206        64      64       84     7,808        625  22.3       1,740
Sub-Total VEHICLES PND EDOIP6ENT                                       6,b49  17,427   5.224       71      64       64    39.397      2.301  42,4      12,478
Phosical COotinseonoie                                                 16     369      44        -       -        -       429           -   0.0          u
Prioe Csntienocaes                                             -      259   2,186  10052        21      24       29     31571           -  39.A      1.420
Sub-Total INCLUDIN6 CONTIN8ENCIES                                      6,824  19,901   6,320       92      07       93    33,097       2.301  41.6     10,898
Ieocs                                                          -   3,300   5,003   1,803         2       -       -    10,008           -   0.0           0
Foreiin Eochanse                                                   2,871   8.078   2,943         7       -        -    13,"98           -   0.0          0
C. MATERIALS
PLANTS                                 0.509-0,571   56.225,000         -   1,028   3.308   6,977   9,505  10,971    31,090        3,029   0.0           0
FERTCZI7E8                             2,958-7,736    1,535.400         -     442   2,530   2,751   3,509   2,294    10,026          964  95.3      10,027
STOVES                                       80.05        20,000       81     243     323      323     323     323      1,617         146   0.0          0
OTHER                                 1.617-38,808       844,295      194   1,285   2,781   4,197   5,410   6,036    20.003        1,864  32.0      605,3-
Sub-Total MATERIALS                                                      275   2,998   7,942  14.248  08,748  19.725    63,936         6,003  25.9     16,560
Physical Continsenies                                          -        -      03     261      476     645      617     2,072           -  49,1       1,017
P,Lie Continsencies                                            -       12     384   1,718   4,286   7,091   9,161    22,610             -  23.8      5,389
Sob-Total INCLUDINS CONTIN8ENCIES                                        287   3,4B4   9,921  18,960  26,484  29,502    88,618        6,003  25,9      22,986
Tixes                                                          -      -N      161     373      602     BIB     990      2,074          -   0.0           0
Foreign E;chaf4t                                               -      100     962   7,173   5,595   1,295   5.841    22.966            -   u.0           0
D. LABOR                                10,75-3,449.6    2,563,235        78   1,936   4,658   7.0bl   6,422  6B067    28.213         2.624   0.0           0
Ph9ssoal Continsencies                                         -        -       6        9      11      14       16        57           -   O.u          0
Price Contingencies                                                     4 4   260   1,019   2,000   3,166   2,785       9,330          -   0.0           0
---  -     - - -   - - -   - - -    - - -   - - -         -  - - - - -    - -    - --- ---      '
Sob-Total lNCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                         81   2,202   5.686   9,162  11,602  8,68    37.602         2,624   0.0           3       T
Ta:es                                                                  1-               2       14      17       19        71           -   0.0          0
E, TRANHING                          2,156-149,438.25           409   2,198   3.737   2,850  10630        542     326    11,283         929  18.8       2,126
Price Continenienes                                            -       9      487     607      472     190      144     2.007           -  20.6        415
Sob-Total INCWODIN3 CONTINGENCIES                                      2.296   4,224   3,458   2.102      740      470    13290          029  19.1      2,544
Foresas  Exchange                                              -      ISS     785     b84      506     201     213      2.544           -   0.0
F. RESEARCH                                                       -      320     318      710     318     308        -     1,592         135   0.1           1
Price Contansenics                                             -       14      42       69      95     119        -       340           - 0.0            0
Sub-Totel INCLUSINO CONTINOENCIES                                       035      360     387      413     437              1,933         135   0.1           1
Foreisj, Enchesee                                               -       I                                I                          -   0.0 
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              14,229,b-150,057           435   4.972   9,341   7,827   2.057   1,451        700    26,343      2,132  94.9      24,996
Prioe Contongencies                                            -      193   1,t84   1,512      551     502     310      4,152           - 91.1       3,782
Sub-Total INCLUDINS CONTINSENCIES                                      5.165  10,425   9,3318   2,608   19051   1010    30500          2,113  94.4     28,770
Tanes-                                                                 22      19       38      13      23       56       172           -   0.0           0
Foreign Exchange                                               -   4.141  10,232   8.957   2,479   1,718       450    28.778           -   0.0           0
Total 1N86STSENT COSTS                                                   20,069  68,769  44,863  27,464  30.749  27r619   219,534        18,874  35.5     78,039
Ph-sinal Conti-encies                                             -      584   3,673   1,893      697     780      707     8,333           -  38.0      0,168
Price Contmingenies                                                -     840   80,76   0,722   8,127  11,581  12,798    52,037             -  27.2      14.165
Total INCLUDING CONTINOENCIES                                            21,493  81,418  56,478  36,288  43,109  41,106   279,903        18,874  34.1     95,371
Taxes                                                             -   3,997   9,267   4,369       926   1,039   1,182    20,781            -   0.0          0
Foriegn E,,hanoe                                                  -  10,983  37.959  19,993   9.738   9,849   6.849    95.371              -   0.0          0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
N. INCREMENTAL STAPFF             2,263.8-31,512.096         3,357   1.175   3,033   4,320   4,969   5,622   6,006    25,125         2,298   0.0           0
Price Cotanseooies                                            -       53     405     944   1,478   2.109   2.749       7,738          -   0.0            0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                     1.228   3.438   5,264   6,447  70731   8,755    32,862          2,298   0.0           0
Ta:es                                                         -        I       I       1        1       1        1         5          -   8.0           0
B. OTNER                                 2.156-21.56       358,400   1,241   3,026   4,242   4.980   5,375   4,478    23,343         2,099  32.1       7,453
Ph-sical Continencies                                         -        -       8       19      23      25       26       101  .        -  46.4         47
Price Cantsgeenies                                            -       52     380    B83   1,431   1,966   1,997        6,709           -  29.4       1,972
Sub-Total INCLODIND CONTINOENCIES                                     1,293   3,414   5,044   6,434   7,366   6,568    30,152         2,099  31.3      9,502
Sin:es                                                        -      203     S38      726     778     828      878     3,95I           -   0.0          0
Foreign Exohonge                                              -     463  10276   1,744   1,881   2,009   2,132         9,502           -   0.0           0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                     2,416   6,059   8.563   9,949  10,997  10,483    48,467         4,397  15.4       7.403
Phgsinal Contingencies                                             -       -       8       19      23      25       26       101           -  46.4          47
Price Costaotneies                                                 -     105     785   1,826   2.909   4,075   4,746    14,447             -  13.6       1,972
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                             2,521   6,852  10,408  12,881  13,197  15,255    63.015         4.397  15.I       9,502
Taxes                                                             -      204     539      727     779     629      879     3,956           -   0.0           0
FPe-ien Eochane                                                   -      463   1,276  10744   1.881   2.007   2,132        9,502           -   0.0           0
Tote1 BASELINE COTS                                                       22,485  74.828  53,426  37,413  41,746  38,102  238,001         23,271  31.9      85,522
Phbsical Contingencies                                              -     384   3,891   1.912      020     805      733     8,433           -  38.1       3.214
Price Contingencies                                                -      946   9,761  81,549  11,036  15,656  17.536    66,483             -  24.3      16,136
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                       24,014  88,290  66.886  49.169  s8,206  56,371   342,017        23,271  30.6    104.873
TInes                                                               -   4,201   9,886   5.095   1,705   1,868   2,b62    24,737             -   0.0           0
Foreign Exchanse                                                   -  11,446  39,233  21.737  11,619  11,856   8,981   104,873              -   0.0          0
Nas 13. 1983  11149






NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Vanary  Accunt by Praurc  Comnacet
(TRay, 'Olla
OTHER                                                                         Phys-cl
RATIIHAL                                                    CST6THITT                               RESEARCH,    UNIVERSITY               Cyntinyen-is
PROJECT      FOREST  PRIVRTE  PAMCHRTAT IEROHSTE6TIOH        STOVE      FORESTRY  STRTE ARUS  HATUR6  FOREST TRAIHNIN, TR RHO TRAIHIGOH------
COORDINATION PLANNIHG PLANTIHO PLANTING  PLAHTIRSS to  OIGTSISUTIOH COSTS lb   PORESTRY   ORPROSEREHI              0845 RSE         SONS       Total           Atiurt
I, IHVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WOWSS
COHOTROICTISN                                     -                                                                   ,163       9,268                -           720        06,920     5LVE7   9.0   5.405
ARCHVITECT FEES-                                            -         -          --                           -      1,053                   -                      -         2,646      3,699  00,0      330
SVb-TytaI CIVIL WRIKS                                                                                                   ?           ,206  9,268          -           700        09,570    50,765   9.8   5,725
PbssIecaCoorirue-ies                              -                             --                            -        930         825                -70                     3,957      5,775   ,0. 
Price Coytingeoc-e                                -         -         -          --                                  1,008       1,600                -             9         7,2S3    10,S23   9.0       095
Sub-Titol INCLOSINB COHTIHOE8CIES                    -                   -                         -              -    10,224      01,708                -            21        00,810    74,563   8,9   6,673
Taxes                                                                                                                1r122       1,071                -82                     t0.81      7,456   9.9      667
Ficaign Eachocse                                                                                                     4           ,754  5,209          -           390        16,816    27,184   9,0   2,434
B. VEHICLES ANT EGUIFRENT
VEHICLES                                                 291                                                5    94  3,826      15,020             040          1,709             -     231,549   0.0 
EUIOPHEHN--T                                                                     -                            -        302       3,223             5H0              -        3,744       7,800   5.5      429
Sub-Total VEHICLES RHO EOOIPRENT                     -       290         -                         -             4T    4,028       18,248              683         1.709         3,244    29,097   0.0       429
Physical Cootiooe-cis                                  -                             - -1  -                            5           09                -             -           074        429   0.0        0
Pric  Cantiooe-ccs                                -         i         -                                      23        284       2,542              126            73           592      0,571   5,7       60
Sub-Total IHELODIHO COHT1HOE8CIES                    -       3S3         -          --                         617      4,048      00,829              909         1,390         4,710    33,3R7   1.0       488
Tacos                                             -       154         -                         -           05       2,073       6,100             182            865           471    00,108   5.5        49
Pre-is  Eacharore                                         143         -          --                         291      0.900      00,668              OHS           619             -    03,088   0.0 
C. MAETRIALS
PLANTSO                                                     -   18,510      2,285           1,428             -          -       5,565                -             -                   31,70TV    040      0
FERTIL17ER                                                                     604            685             -          -       9,206                                                  1    0,526  00.0   8,953
STOVES                                                           -            -                           1    ,617            -                                                         1       ,617   0.0 
OTHER                                             -                          ,439           1,582             -    81,702        5,2300                                                20,6003   ,0   1,019
Sub-Total HOTERIALS                                  -               8,011      4,320          2,695         1,617    11,952       20.031                -                                  3,936   3.2   2,072
Pbhsaca1 Cy,rtioyorcas                            -         -         -        60              69             -      1,819         924                ---                                2,672   5,0        V
Price Cootiaooces-                                               6,849      1,4b9           0,480           472      4,441       6,859                ---                              22,610   3,0       700
S.b-TotaT IHCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    -         - 25,460        5,798          10,244         2,609    17,210       27,814                ---                               88,608   3.1   2,770
Sors-                                                                 -       3281            242             -      0,779         702                ---                                2,874   4.7      141
Poresy  Eachasa                                             -               2,289           2,529             -      1,121      17,007                ---                               22,966   0.0   1,300
D. LABOR-                                                      -               3,600           9.325             -         47      12,006           0,840             43             -     20,210   0.2       27
Physicl Cyrtixrcaes-                              -         -         -          -              -             -         57           -               -              -             -         57   0.0        0
Price Cantirgeocies                               -                   -     1,279          3,249              -        269       0,997             538              2             -      9,003   0.2       19
Syb-Tatal INCLUDIHG COHNTINGENCIES                   -         -         -     4,838          12,57H4                   1,170      06,520           2,079             415                  37,600   0.2        76
Tears-                                                      -         -          -      -              -                71                   -               -             -                70 9.1          6
E. TRAOININ                                                                              -                                                                        1               1,2823   11,0830,OS           V
Pri"c Cytiersoce                                 -         -         -         --                                                                             2.0027                    2,007   0.0        0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CIHT0N1EHCIES                    -         -         -          --                           -          -           --                        13,290             -     10,292   0.0 
FParey  Eacht,oy                                                                                                                                               2,544              -     2,544   0.0         0
F, RSEARHCH                                                                                                                                                        1                 ,S92  - 1,592   0.0       0
pric  Coatirge-cr                                                                                                                                                3                 40  -   340   0,V        S
Scib-Tata1 IHCLU0ON8 COHTTHSENCIEO                                                                                                                                 1                 ,933   1 ,933   0.0        2
Rarecy  Eacharoy                                                                                                                                                    I                        I 0.00         V
5, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                              -         -         -          --                           -          -           --                        26,348             -      6,349   0.0 
Pmca  Contaryracies-                                        -         -          -                                                                             4,152              -      4,050   0.0        0
Sub-Tatal INCLUDINGHO NTIHSERCIES                                                                                                                                 3                 0,5000    30,500   0.0      0
Ta,cr                                                                                                                                                             17       - - -- 02       1 72   0.0       0
Porosor   Eacharao-- --- --- ----                -   -- - --   - - ---   -- - -   - - - -- - - - --     -- -   --  - - - - - - ----  -  -- -  - --  -  -- 20 -- --- --70-- -    28 -77   0.--   S---
Total INVESTMENT COSTTS                                         2901   10,011      7,929         17,02V         2.210    25,940       60,103            2,520        40,605        40,015   219,034   0,8   0,330
%hsica0 Cartiaue-ces                                 -         -         -         60             69             -      2,V14       1,703                -            72         4,001      8,333   0.0         0
PrnicaContaoysces                                    -         1    6,949      2r687           5,730           495      6,009      10,019              664         6,610         7,074    52,007   3.2   0,672
Total INCLUDING8 CONTIHOEHCIEu                           -       000   25,460    10,676          22,TiO         2,206    33,956       36,909            0,109        4S,369        55,521   279,903   3.6  1I,V16
Taxe                                                 -       154         -        225            242           a51      5,045       8,004              1291        1,120         5,552    20S781   4.2       864
Paor-s  Eucroae                                      -       143               22.89           2,529           291      7,606      32,914              398        32,033        06,616    95,070   0.9   0,764
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A, INCREMENTAL STAFF                              159       379                    -              -             -    17,097        5,068           1,650            791             -    25,12S   0,0          V
Pri"c  ootiryrcia                              HO       020                                                        5,269       0,509             558            254             -      0,708   0.0        0
Sub-Total INCLUSING CONTINGENCIES                 099       5068                                                      22,366       6,505           2,1o0          1,048                   32,062   0.6         0
Taxes                                            -                                                                                  -               -              -             -             0.0         0
B. lOSER                                            -       350                                             1    ,229  5,205      15,354              131         0,024             -     23.343   0.4      100
Physical Contiryences                            -         -                -                                -         52          44               -              0                      151   0.1        V
Price Continoa-xce                                       8 4         -          -              -           268      1,002       4,731              41           250              -       ,709   1.5       32
SVA,-Total INCLUDING CONTIHON 1EKIE-                        434         -          --                       1.497      6,599      20,129             210          1,201             -      0,152   0,4      132
Soars                                            -        7          -         --                           10      0,245       2,015              43           240                    3 ,951   0.3       10
F-rrAc Eachooue                                         202                              -                          3    ,074   1,030              99           596-                   9,502   0.6        61
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                 109       728         -                                     ,229    22,012      20,401            8,824         8,810                   40,487   8.3       001
Phusical Cootindeccasm-                                                      -          -                                  52          44                -             0             -        il    0.0         I
Price Cotiarserces                                  40       212         -          --                         268      6,601       6,270              049           507                   1 4,447   0.2      02
Total INCLUDING CON4TINGENCIES                        199       940         -          --                       1,497    25,965       26,214            2,373         2.022                   63,005   0.2       102
Oae ...07                                                                -          --                           10     8,0580      2.015               H3           049                    3 ,956   0.3       13
Fo,esge Soohese                                      -       202         -                                        -     0,074       5,530               99           586             -      9.502   0.6        61
Total NAULINE COSTS                                    109    0,020   10,511        7,292         17,020         3,440    48,254       80,504            4,048        40,200        43,310   268,091   3.0   0,433
Physacal Contiosencirs                                -         -         -         60             691             -     2,066       8,831                -            38         4,001      8,422   0.0         8
Pri  c Catiroenca-                                   40       220    6,848       2,687          5,730           763    12,601       31,203           1,000          3,100         7,874    86,483   2.6   1,709
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    198    0,242   25,460    10,676            22,018         4,200    62,820    1080,818             5,062        58,896        55,520   342,917   0.0  10,042
Taxe                                                          2 41                 2 21           243           227      6,285      10,309              170         1,368         5,052    24,737   3.5       077
Foreign Eachosge,                                             345                2,209          0,529           291    18,808       08,444              347        02,903        16,816   104,833   0.6   3,824






-68-                             Annex II
Table 20
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Community Forestry Plantation Program
Nursery Production Costs
For 60,000 Plants                    Units     Number          Cost
(NRs)
Labor                                                        925          9,250
Nursery Maintenance                          md           45
Mixing Soil 25m3)                    md          180
Sowing, Pricking Out                         md           20
Filling Pots                                 md           60
Direct Sowing                                md           50
Weeding and Tending                          md          180
Watering                                     md           75
Cutting, stumping, despatch                  md           15
Foreman                                      md          300
Materials                                                                25,630
Seeds
Eucalyptus                                 gm           25             90
Teak                                       kg           15            360
Sissoo                                     kg           30          3,000
Fertilizer                                   kg          500          2,530
r olypots                                    kg          120          5,400
Miscellaneous Tools,
Small Equipment and Supplies                                        5,000
Of total production, 20% would be culls, i.e., effective production is
48,000 plants. Cost per effective plant: NRs 0.53.






-69-
ANNEX II
Table 21
NEPAL
SECOND FORSTRY PROJECT
State Forestry Plantations
Nursery Production Costs: 580,000 Plants (Gross) at One Nursery
Units         Number        Cost (NRs)
Labor                                                  4,310          43,100
Nursery Maintenance                   md              600
Eucalyptus (225,000)                  md
Mixing Soil, 100 m3                md              650
Sawing, Pricking Out               md              400
Filling Pots                       md              260
Weeding, Tending,
Watering                         md              480
Sissoo and Teak (265,000 stumps)
Making Beds, Sowing, Watering,
Tending                         md            1,200
Cutting, Stumping, Despatch           md              120
Nursery Foreman (2)                   md              600
Materials                                                             89,910
Seed
600 gm Eucalyptus                                                 2,700
300 kg Sissoo                                                   30,000
140 kg Teak                                                       3,600
Fertilizer                            kg            6,000           30,360
Polypots                              kg              450           20,250
General                                                                88,000
Generator Running Costs, 1.5 hours/day
at NRs 120/hour                                                  66,000
Water Pump:  5 hours/day at NRs 12/hour                             22,000
Total Costs                                            218,010
Allowing for culls (25% of total production attempted) effective production
would be 440,000 at an average cost per plant of NRs 0.50.



-70-
Annex III
Page 1
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis
Standard Conversion Factor
1.01      All economic costs and benefits are stated in border prices by
adjusting domestic price equivalents by the SCF (=0.9).
Financial and Economic Prices for Inputs
1.02      Bullock Draft.  Estimated average cost during the year is about
NRs 18 per pair day. With the increasing intensity of cultivation and
the effective relative reduction in available supply of bullock draft, the
cost in real terms is expected to increase by about 25%, to NRs 22.5 per
pair day by 1990. Using bullock draft is possible only for about 10
months of the year. Therefore, the rates include a component for this
idle time. The economic price is thus based on a rate of NRs 15 (and NRs
18.75 for 1990 onwards), adjusted by the SCF to NRs 13.5 (NRs 16.9) per
pair day.
1.03      Labor.  Wages for unskilled labor vary between NRs 8-10 per
manday during the slack season and NRs 12 per manday during the peak
season. An average annual financial wage of NRs 10 per manday has been
assumed; NRs 12.5 per manday for 1990 onwards. Particularly during the
slack season, there is very little employment opportunity in the Terai.
The ooprtunity cost of labor would therefore be as low as NRs 2/manday.
In the peak season, full employment is the rule and the opportunity cost
of labor at that time would be NRs 12/manday. This results in a weighted
annual ooprtunity cost of labor of NRs 5/manday, equivalent to 50% of the
financial wage. This shadow wage adjusted by the SCF gives an economic
wage of NRs 4.5 per manday; NRs 5.6 per manday for 1990 onwards. For
skilled workers, the market wage reflects the opportunity cost. The
economic wage in this category is the market wage adjusted by the SCF.
1.04      Fertilizer.  Financial prices are existing market prices,
adjusted upwards by 1990 to reflect expected changes in relative prices.
Economic prices are derived from IBRD projections for the world market
price of urea, TSP, and muriate of potash.



-71-
Annex III
Page 2
1.05      Cow dung.  Mission estimates at several villages in the Terai
indicate that cow dung can readily be purchased. Its price is about NRs
0.20 per kg wet.
1.06      Seeds.  Financial and economic prices of agricultural seeds are
taken to be equivalent to the crop output prices since in the project area
over 90% would use crops as their source of seed. The prices used are
based on mission estimates confirmed by other projects in the area.
Economic prices are obtained by adjusting market prices by the SCF.
1.07      Other Material.  Prices for wire, steel, cement, and other
material are based on at site costs. Economic costs exclude all taxes and
duties and adjust local components by SCF.
1.08      Civil Works.  The cost of civil works is based on the cost of
material and labor. Economic costs are established by excluding all taxes
and duties and by adjusting local cost components by the SCF. The result-
ing implicit average conversion factor for civil works is 0.85.
1.09      Vehicle and Equipment.  Prices for vehicles and equipment are
based on estimates for actual at site costs. Economic costs exclude all
taxes and duties and adjust local cost components by the SCF. The
implicit average conversion factor for vehicles is 0.55; for equipment,
0.78.
Financial and Economic Prices of Outputs
1.10      Fuelwood.  The FCN sells fuelwood at official prices set to
abide by the no-profit no-loss policy. The price includes a royalty to
HMG and a margin to cover FCN operating costs. The FCN price ex-depot at
Hetauda is NRs 200/ton. The financial stumpage price for FCN sales are
derived from this price. There is also a private market, particularly for
Sal fuelwood. For fuelwood produced from private, institutional, or
panchayat plantings, financial fuelwood values are derived from the market
price of fuelwood and adjusting for the relative calorific content of the
planting composition relative to Sal. Similarly, the economic price of
fuelwood for all plantings is based on the market price adjusted by the
SCF since fuelwood is a non-traded commodity, and for which the substitute
would be an unknown combination of several non-traded commodities such as
cow-dung, agricultural wastes and also reduced frequency of cooking.



-72-
Annex III
Page 3
1.11      Logs and Poles.  The TCN sells logs and poles at official HMG
rates, but there also exists a private market for these commodities.
Market prices are about 17% higher than TCN prices. Financial stumpage
prices for TCN sales are derived from these official prices; that for
private, institutional, and private plantings are based on the market
prices as for fuelwood. The economic prices for all logs and poles are
derived from their market prices similar to as for fuelwood.
1.12      Fodder.  Mission estimates from various villages suggest an
average market price of NRs 250/ton. One person collects about 50 kg/day;
i.e., 20 mandays needed to collect one ton. The cost of labor would be
about NRs 200/ton, leaving NRs 50/ton. Half of this would go to the
collector, the other half remaining as stumpage value: i.e., NRs 25/ton.
The economic price is taken as the financial price adjusted by the SCF.
1.13      Fruit.  The average financial price of fruit is taken as NRs
4/kg (NRs 4.2/kg in 1990); the economic price as th-' financial price
adjusted by the SCF.
1.14      Agricultural Crops.  The price of the agricultural crops are
based on mission estimates from data collected at various villages and
confirmed by other projects in the project area; some increasing in price
by 1990 to reflect expected relative price changes. Economic prices are
taken as the financial price adjusted by the SCF.



-73-
NEPAL                                                     ANNEX III
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT                                           Table 1
Yields per ha by Component                                         Page 1
COWMNITY FORESTRY
With Project
Cubic Meters                     Metric Tons-
Year         Fuelwood     Sawlogs        Poles       Fodder       Fruits
1-2             0,00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
3-6             0.00          0.00         0.00          2.00         0.00
7-9             0.00          0.00         0.00          2.00         1.00
10             70.00          0.00        10.00          7.00         1.00
11-12           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.50
13-16           0.00          0.00         0.00          2.00         0.50
1/-19           0.00          0.00         0.00          2.00         1.00
20             70.00          5.00        10.00          7.00         1.00
21-22           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.50
23-26           0.00          0.00         0,00          2.00         0.50
27-29           0.00          0.00         0.00          2.00         1.00
30             70.00          5.00        10.00          7.00         1,00
31-40           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
STRIP PLANTINGS
Without
With Project                           Project
UUbIc Meters                    Metric Tons        hetric Tons
Year        Fuelwood       Sawlogs        Poles       Fodder        Fruit       Fodder
1-2_0_00                      0.00------ 0____00___  4____00___  0____00___        5.00------
1-2             0.00          0.00         0.00          4.00         0.00         5.00
-5              0.00          0.00         0.00          6.00         0.00         5.00
6-              0.00          0.00         0.00          4.00         0.00         5.00
7-9             0.00          0.00         0.00          4.00         1.50         5,00
1i             70.00          0.00        10.00         10.00         1.50         5,00
11-12           0.00          0.00         0.00          4.00         0.50         5.00
13-15           0.00          0.00         0.00          6.00         0.50         5.00
16-19           0.00          0.00         0.00          4.00         0.00         5,00
20             70.00          5.00        10.00         10.00         0.00          5.00
21-22           0.00          0.00         0.00          4.00         0.00          5.00
23-25           0.00          0.00         0.00          6.00         0.00          5*00
26-29           0.00          0.00         0.00          4.00         0.00          5.00
30             70.00          5.00        10.00         10.00         0,00         5.00
31-40           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
DEMONSTRATION WOODLOTS
With Project                                              Without ProJect
Metric         Cubic        Metric
Cubic Meters                 Tons           Meters        Tons          Cubic Meters          Tons
Year___      Fuelwoond ---S---          Pnlec        Fodder        Fuelvood      Fodder     Fuelvood        Poles    Fodder
1               0.00          0.00         0.00          4.00        15.00        18,60          2.00         0.50          6.00
2-4             0.00          0,00         0,00          4.00         0.00          0.00         2,00          0.50         6.00
5               0.00          0.00         0.00          4.00         0.00          0.00         2.00         0.50          5.00
6-9             0.00          0.00         0.00          2.00         0.00          0.00         2.00         0.50          5.00
10             70.00          0.00        10.00          8.00         0.00          0.00         2.00         0,50          5.00
11-12           0,00          0.00        000           4.00        000           0.00         1.00         0.50          5.00
13-14           0.00          0.00         0.00          3.00         0.00          0,00         1.00         0.50          5.00
15              0.00          0.00         0,00          3.00         0.00          0.00         1.00         0.50          4.00
16-19           0.00          0.00         0,00          2.00         0.00          0,00         1.00         0.00          4.00
20             70.00          5.00        10.00          8.00         0.00          0.00         1.00         0.00          4.00
21-22           0.00          0.00         0.00          4.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          4.00
23-25           0.00          0.00         0.00          3.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         4.00
26-29           0.00          0.00         0.00          2.00         0.00          0,00         0.00         0.00          4.00
30             70.00          5.00        10.00          8.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          4.00
31-40           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        000           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00



AGRO-FTOESTRY                                            -74-
ANNEX III
Table 1
!!ith Project                                  Clearing a/                           Page 2
Metric                                     Metric
Cubic leters                 Ts               Cubic Meters               Tons
Year        Fuelvood     Sawlas         poles        Fodder       Fuelwood       Sawlogs        Fodder
___0.00                 0----   00--- 0_______0_    ---    .00----  ------ 00--     20.00-----  ----------
-                0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00        42.00         20.00         18.60
2-9              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
10             70.00          0.00         10.00          7.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
11-19            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
20              70.00         5.00         10.00          7.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
21-29            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
30              70.00        15.00         10.00          7.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
31-40            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
AGXO-FORESTRY (Continuation)
Without Project
Metric
Cubic Meters                   Tons
Year       Fuelwood     Sawlogs        Poles         Fodder
1-5             2.00          1.00          1.00          7.00
6-10             2.00         1.00          1.00          6.00
11-15            1-00         0.00          1.00          6.00
16-20            1.00         0.00          0.00          6.00
21-30            0.00         0.00          0.00          5.00
31-40            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
IMPROVE4ENT OF NATURAL FORESTS
With Project                                            Without Project
-errl- err-c  Yetrlc
Cubic Meters                Tons                      Cubic Meters                  Tons
Year        Fuelwood     Sawlogs       Poles         Fodder       Fuelwood       Sawlogs        Poles       Fod4er
1              15.00          5.00          3.00         34.00          3.00         1.00          1.00          7.00
2-5              0.00         0.00          0.00          4.00          3.00         1.00          1.00          7.00
6-10             0.00         0.00          0.00          3.00          2.00         1.00          1.00          6.00
11              15.00         5.00          6.00         33.00          1.00         0.00          1.00          6.00
12-13            0.00         0.00          0.00          4.00          1.00         0.00          1.00          6.00
14-15           0.00          0.00          0.00          3.00          1.00         0.00          1.00          6.00
16-20           0.00          0.00          0.00          3.00          1.00         0.00          0.00          6.00
21              15.00        10.00          8.00         33.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          5.00
22-24            0.00         0.00          0.00          4.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          5.00
25-30            0.00         0.00          0.00          3.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          5.00
31              15.00        20.00          8.00         33.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          5.00
32-40            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0,00          0.00
a/ In the analysis, yields from clearing are included in the
project benefits.



-75-
ANNEX III
Table 2
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Forestry Output Shares (%)
Community      State Agro-         Demonstration      National Forest
Forestry       Forestry               Woodlots          Improvement
Clearing  Planting  Clearing  Planting
FW  Logs                                  FW  Logs  Poles
Sal                   30   40                                   10   30    100
Eucalyptus    20                    40                   20
Teak          10                    10                   10
Asna                       60                                         70
Sissoo        70                    50                   70
Mixed                 70                      100               90



-76-
ANNEX III
Table 3
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
(NRs)
Financial    a/            Economic
End       1990      CF      End      lY90
1982                       1982
Bullock Draft                      18/pd    22.5/pd   0.75   13.5/pd  16.9/pd
Wages
Unskilled                       10/md    12.5/md   0.45    4.5/md   5.6/md
Skilled                         22/md    27.5/md   0.9    19.8/md  24.75/md
Well-digger                     15/md    18.8/md   0.9    13.5/md  16.9/md
Fertilizers b/
(N) Nitrogen                     6.8/kg   9.2/kg   1.38    9.4/kg  12.7/kg
(P) Phosphate                    5.8/kg   6.8/kg   1.44    8.4/kg   9.9/kg
(P) Potash                       2.6/kg   2.9/kg   1.92    5.0/kg   5.6/kg
Fodder                              25 mt    25 mt    0.9    22.5/mt  22.5/mt
Agricultural Crops/Seeds
Maize                            2.0/kg   2.1/kg   1.2       2.4/kg   2.5/kg
Sesamum                          3.0/kg   3.0/kg   0.9       2.7/kg   2.7/kg
Pulses                           4.5/kg   4.7/kg   0.9       4.1/kg   4.3/kg
Mustard                          5.6/kg   5.6/kg   0.9       5.0/kg   5.0/kg
Finger Millet                    1.5/kg   1.5/kg   0.9       1.4/kg   1.4/kg
Linseed                          5.0/kg   5.2/kg   0.9       4.5/kg   4.7/kg
Fruits                           4.0/kg   4.2/kg   0.9       3.6/kg   3.8/kg
a/ Prices in end 1982 values.
b/ See Annex III, Table 9



-77-
ANNEX III
Table 4
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial Price for Fuelwood
(NRs)
Price
Official HMG Average Sale Price (Hetauda)                      200/ton  a/
(mixed fuelwood)
or:                                                        145/m3
Transport Cost                                                - 75/m3
Cutting, handling, stacking, etc.                               18/m3
Financial Stumpage Price                                     52/m3
a/ Based on official FCN sale prices for mixed fuelwood.



-78-                      ANNEX III
Table 5
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Price for Fuelwood
(NRs)
CF       Economic
Sal Market Auction Sale Price          251/m3          0.9        226/m3
Costs
Transport                           - 75            0.9         68
Cutting                             - 10            0.45         4.5
Stacking                            -  6            0.45         2.7
Loading/Unloading                   -  6            0.45          2.7
Weighing                            -  1            0.45          0.5
- 98                      - 78
Economic Stumpage Price              153                       148
Economic prices of other species based on calorific content relative to Sal:
Fuelwood               Calorific Content a/             Economic
Relative to Sal                 Price
Sal                           1                         148/m3
Eucalyptus                    0.932                     138/m3
Teak                          0.795                     118/m3
Asna                          1.027                     152/m3
Sissoo                        0.932                     138/m3
Mixed                         0.932                     138/m3
a/ Based on Indian Forest Service Data.



-79-                      ANNEX III
Table 6
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial Prices of Sawlogs a/
(NRs)
Sal             Sisso/Teak       Eucalyptus/Asna
Price per sawn ft3           40.5                50                22
Price per sawn m3         1,430              1,765                777
Price per m3 round          730                900                396
Value of Wastage b/        + 58               + 58                 58
Total             788/m3 (r)          958/m3 (r)        454/m3 (r)
Costs
Felling               -  15               -  15             -  15
Loading               -  14               -  14             -  14
Yarding               -  28               -  28             -  28
Unloading             -   2               -   2             -   2
Transport             - 111               - 111             - 111
Sawing, adm.          - ill               - 111             - 111
Total           - 281/m3 (r)       - 2817m3 (r)       - 281/m3 (r)
Financial Stumpage       507/m3 (r)         677/m3 (r)         173/m3 (r)
Price
a/ Bank estimates based on Timber Corporation of Nepal sale prices.
b/ Sold as fuelwood.



-80-
ANNEX III
Table 7
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Prices of Sawlogs
(NRs)
Sal             Sisso/Teak      Eucalyptus/Asna
Market Auctions:
Price per sawn ft3 a/      47.6              59                 26
Price per sawn 3       1,6830             2,074               918
Price per m3 (r)         858              1,058               468
Wastage                  +68                +68               +68
926/m3 (r)       1,126/m3 (r)        536/m3 (r)
CF                       x 0.9              x 0.9             x 0.9
833              1,014               482
Costs:
- 281              - 281             - 281
CF                     x   0.63           x   0.63          x   0.63
- 177               - 177            - 177
Economic Stumpage           656/m3 (r)          837/m3 (r)        305/m3 (r)
===s== ==-                              ====== ======
a/  Market prices on average are 17.5% higher than official HMG prices.  These
prices are then adjusted by SCF to obtain economic values.



-81-
ANNEX III
Table 8
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES OF POLES
(NRs/piece)
Sal/Teak                       Sissoo/Eucalyptus
Financial   CF    Economic       Financial    CF    Economic
Official HMG Prices a/        100/piece   0.9    90/piece    90/piece b/  0.9    81/piece
Costs:
Felling, debarking, coll. -35/piece   0.45  -16             -35            0.45   -16
Yarding                    -10/piece   0.45  - 5            -10            0.45   - 5
Loading/Unloading          -10/piece   0.45  - 5            -10            0.45   - 5
Total               -55/piece   0.45  -26           -55            0.45   -26
Stumpage            45/piece            64/piece    35/piece                55/piece
or                  450/m3             640/m3       350/m3                 550/m3
a/  From Timber Corporation of Nepal; prices for sale at site.
b/ Bank staff estimates (about 10% less than Sal).



-82-
ANNEX III
Table 9
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICES OF FERTILIZER
(NRs or US$ per Ton)
Nitrogen (Urea)       Phosphate (TSP)         Potash (MOP)
end 1982   1990       end 1982   1990       end 1982   1990
Projected World
Market Price a/       $180        $275        $155       $202      $ 90       $114
Packaging and
Sea Transport         + 40        + 40        + 45       + 45      + 45       + 45
Transport Calcutta-
Bhairawa              + 55        + 55        + 55       + 55      + 55       + 55
Godown Price       $275        $370        $255       $302      $190         -
NRs Equivalent           3,930       5,290       3,650     4,320    2,720       3,060
Storage, Loss,
Handling (4%)         +157        +212        +146       +173      +109       +122
Handling and Transport
to Farms (6%)         +236        +317        +219       +259      +163      +184
Farmgate Cost    4,323         5,819       4,015      4,752    2,992      3,366
Nutrient
Content               46%                      48%                  60%
Nutrient Economic
Price/Ton (NRs)      9,398       12,650       8,365      9,900    4,987       5,610
a/ In end 1982 prices. Based on IBRD Commodity Price Projections,
December 1982.



-83-                             ANNEX III
Table 10
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Agricultural Activity on One Hectare of Agro-Forestry
Units               Years                    Years                Years
1      2    3        4      11    12    13         22      23     24
Maize
Inputs
Seeds           kg      14.4  11.2   -        -      12.2    9.6   -       11.6    9.0    -
Fertilizers
N             kg      58    44      -       -      50      38     -      46      36       -
P             kg      28    22      -       -      24      18     -      22      18       -
K             kg      14    10      -       -      12       8     -      12       8       -
Labor           md      62    76      20      -      52      60    16      48      58      16
Animal Draft   pd       36    20       16     -      18      12      -     16      12       -
Production          tons   -       1.4    1      -       -       1.2   0.8    -         1.2    0.8
Sesamum
Inputs
Seeds           kg       0.9    -      -      -       0.76  -       -       0.72   -        -
Labor           md       6       4     -      -       6      4      -       6       4       -
Animal Draft   pd        6       -      -     -       4      -              4       -
Production          tons    -       0.08  -      -       -      0.07   -        -      0.07   -
Pulses
Inputs
Seeds           kg       -       2.7   2.1   1.48   -        2.3    1.78   -        2.2    1.6
Labor           md       -       6      4     6       -      6       4      -       6       2
Animal Draft   pd        -       2      2     -       -      2      2       -       2       2
Production          tons    -       0.03  0.03  0.02   -        0.03   0.02   -        0.03   0.02
Linseed
Inputs
Seeds           kg       -       0.6   -      -       -      0.6    -       -       0.4    -
Labor           md       -       6     -      -       -      6      -       -       4       -
Animal Draft   pd        -       2     -      -       -      2      -       -       2       -
Production          tons    -       0.04  -      -       -      0.04   -       -       0.04   -
Finger Millet
Inputs
Seeds           kg       -       0.26  -      -       -     0.3    -        -       0.28   -
Labor           md       -       6     2      -       -      4      2       -       2       -
Animal Draft   pd        -       2     -      -       -      2      -       -       2       -
Production          tons    -       -      0.08  0.06   -       -      0.08    -       -      0.06
Mustard
Inputs
Seeds           kg       -       0.6   0.52  -        -     0.4    0.4    -         0.4    0.4
Labor           md       -       6      6     8       -      4      4       -       4       4
Animal Draft   pd        -       2      2     -       -      2      2       -       2       -
Production          tons    -       -      0.06  0.02   -       -       0.04   -       -       0.04



-84-
ANNEX III
Table 11
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Agricultural Activity on One Hectare of Agro-Forestry
Financial In ut/Out ut
Years                                  Years                          Years
1        2         3       4          11        12        13        22        23        24
Maize
Inputs           1,889.4  1,595.2    488.0    0.0    1,378.8  1,218.8    160.0   1,263.4  1,184.0    160.0
Seeds            28.2      22.4       0.0    0.0        24.4      19.2       0.0       23.2      18.0       0.0
Fertilizers
N             394.4    299.2        0.0    0.0       340.0    258.4        0.0      312.8    244.8        0.0
P             162.4    127.6        0.0    0.0       139.2    104.4        0.0      127.6    104.4        0.0
K              36.4      26.0       0.0    0.0        31.2      20.8      20.8        0.0      20.8      20.8
Labor           620.0    760.0    200.0    0.0         520.0    600.0    160.0        480.0    580.0    160.0
Animal Draft   648.0    360.0    288.0    0.0          324.0    216.0        0.0      288.0    216.0        0.0
Production           0.0  2,800.0  2,000.0    0.0            0.0  2,400.0  1,600.0        0.0   2,400.0  1,600.0
Sesamum
Inputs             170.7      40.0        -       -        134.3      40.0        -      134.2      40.0        -
Seeds             2.7        -         -      -          2.3        -         -         2.2        -         -
Labor            60.0      40.0        -       -        60.0      40.0        -        60.0      40.0        -
Animal Draft   108.0         -         -      -         72.0        -         -        72.0        -         -
Production            -      240.0        -       -           -     210.0         -         -      210.0        -
Pulses
Inputs                -      108.2      85.5   66.7           -     106.4      84.0         -      105.9      63.2
Seeds              -       12.2       9.5    6.7          -       10.4       8.0         -        9.9       7.2
Labor              -       60.0      40.0   60.0           -      60.0      40.0         -       60.0      20.0
Animal Draft       -       36.0      36.0     -           -       36.0      36.0         -       36.0      36.0
Production            -      180.0    180.0   90.0            -     270.0    180.0          -      180.0    180.0
Linseed
Inputs                -       99.0        -       -           -      99.0        -          -       78.0        -
Seeds              -        3.0        -      -           -        3.0        -          -        2.0        -
Labor              -       60.0        -      -           -       60.0        -          -       40.0        -
Animal Draft       -       36.0        -      -           -       36.0        -          -       36.0        -
Production            -      200.0        -       -           -     200.0         -         -      200.0        -
Finger Millet
Inputs                -       96.5      20.4      -           -      76.5      20.0         -       56.4        -
Seeds              -        0.5      0.4      -           -        0.5                   -        0.4        -
Labor              -       60.0      20.0     -            -      40.0      20.0         -       20.0        -
Animal Draft       -       36.0        -      -           -       36.0        -          -       36.0        -
Production            -         -      120.0   90.0           -         -     120.0          -        -       90.0
Mustard
Inputs                -       99.4      98.9   80.0           -      78.2      78.2         -       78.2      42.2
Seeds              -        3.4      2.9      -           -        2.2       2.2         -        2.2       2.2
Labor              -       60.0      60.0   80.0          -       40.0      40.0         -       40.0      40.0
Animal Draft       -       36.0      36.0     -           -       36.0      36.0         -       36.0        -
Production            -         -      336.0  112.0           -        -      224.0         -         -      224.0



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
One ha Financial Flow to Private Plantings and Agricultural Activity
(NRs)
Farm Plantings                          Panchayat Plantings                    Agricultural Activity
Net  c/                                  Net                       Working                      Net c/
Year           Costs a/    Benefits    Benefits        Costs a/    Benefits      Benefits d/    Costs a/    Capital b/    Benefits    Benefits
1            1952.00          0.00    -1952.00        2451.00          0.00    -2451.00           0.00       1083.00          0.00    -1083.00
2             920.00          0.00      -820.00       1382,20          0.00    --1382.20       2166.00        -23.29          0,00    -2142.72
3             300.00         50.00      -250.00        300,00         50.00      -250.00       2119,43       -713.34       3756.00       2349.91
4             200.00         50.00      -150.00        200.00         50.00      -150.00        692.75       -273.05       2524.00       2104.29
5                0.00        50.00         50.00         0.00         50.00         50.00       146.66        -73.33        292.00        218.67
6               0.00         50.00        50.00          0.00         50.00         50.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
7-8             0.00       4050.00      4050.00          0.00       4050.00      4050.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
9               0.00       4250.00      4250.00          0.00       4250.00      4250.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
10              0,00    17845.00    17945.00             0.00      17845.00    17845.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
it            125.00      2100.00       1975.00        125.00       2100.00      1975.00          0.00       1014.33          0.00    -1014.33
12            225.00       2100.00      1875.00        225.00       2100.00      1875.00       2028.66         48.68          0.00     -2077.35
13              0.00       2150.00      2150.00          0,00       2150.00      2150.00       2126.03       -850.10       3190.00       1914.07
14              0.00      2150.00       2150.00          0.00       2150,00      2150.00        425.83       -212.92       2212.00       1999.09
15-16           0.00      2150,00       2150.00          0.00       2150,00      2150.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
17-19           0.00       4250.00      4250.00          0.00       4250.00      4250.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
20              0.00    20725.00    20725.00             0.00    20725.00    20725.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
21            125.00       2100.00      1975.00        125.00       2100.00      1975.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0100
22            225.00       2100.00      1875.00        225.00       2100.00      1875.00           0.00       913.27          0.00       -913.27           co
U,
23              0,00       2150.00      2150.00          0.00       2150.00      2150.00       1826.54         81.06          0.00      -1907.60            1
24               0.00      2150.00      2150.00          0.00       2150.00      2150-00       1988.66       -829.45       3320.00       2160.79
25               0,00      2150.00      2150.00          .0.00      2150.00      2150.00        329.76       -164.88       2182.00       2017.12
26               0.00      2150.00      2150.00          0.00       2150.00      2150.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
27-29            0.00      4250.00      4250.00          0.00       4250.00      4250.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
30              0.00    20725.00    20725.00             0.00    20725.00    20725,00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
31               0.00         0.00        175.00         0.00          0.00        175.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
32-40            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
a/ Costs include all costs, including full labor costs.
b/ For the purpose of this analysis only, costs and benefits are lagged by one year, together with the introduction of this dummy working capital stream, to
adjust for the approximate semi-annual nature of the crops involved. This methodology is outlined in "Methodology of Farm Investment Analysis", by
Walter Shaefer-Kehnert, CN-67. The dunmy incremental working capital for each year is equal to 50X of the difference between non-investment costs
(i.e., farm inputs and labor) for each year and the following year.
c/ IRR = 38X; NPV e 102 - NRa 22,227.
d/ IRR - 332; NPV e 101 - NRa 21,309.
e/ IRR - 211; NPV e 102 - NRs 727.



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefit Stream by Component
(NIB)
Costs                                                                     benefits
Improvement    State                                           Improvement    State
Ceneral  Comunity    Demonatration  of Natural     Agro-       Total        Community Demonatration of Natural     Agro-        Total         Net     a/
Year         Overheads   Forestry     Woodlots       Forests     Forestry      Costa         Forestry    Woodlots     Forests    Forestry     Benefits      Benefita
1            9077209      8157729            0        92630             0    17327568             0            0             0            0            0   -17327568
2           11846667      4622637       403294       550900    16900691    34324189           -4500       378156    36327060       8179542    44880258       10556069
3           10562566      6625836      1181899       457345    11065995    29893641          -13500       826446    25599420    20147784    46560150    16666509
4            5516618    10249786       1469394       457345    10507022    28200165            1125       529086     14871780    28777223    44179214    15979049
5            5523095    12939531       1527894       457345    12882020    33329885           63000       231726      4144140    30746469    35185335         1855450
6            5209347    15289284       1554894       457345      9214252    31725122         223875       -61134    -6583500       1945229    -4475530   -36200652
7             563637      6513734       546659       229888      2463536    10317454         457875    -1301634   -52666320    -4443511   -57953590   -68271044
8             154884      328t700        t12500      148648      1416695       5114427      3427875    -1312884   -51694440    -8928931   -58508380   -63622807
9             102309      1613100        45000        74890       630914      2466213    10238625    -1324134   -50722560    -9411781   -51219850   -53686063
10             88407      1037100            0        74890       417788       1618185    25554375    -1335384   -49750600    -9366781   -34898470   -36516655
11             87987      1037100            0        74890       417788      1617765    56340630        1680156   -48778800       -205141       9036845      7419080
12             87987      1071413        11250        74890      1364079      2609619    95614965        6273288    15533280    12465431   129886964   127277345
13            435027      .189988        48375        82828      3565872      5322090   125992530        6363468    19529160    22884519   174769677   169447587
14             91029      1413188        78750        75tl8      638t359      8039444   141238080        6449148    23525040    29343737   200556005   192516561    1
15            102309      1715250        78750        74890      7399007      9370206   144834030        6528078    27363420       3349917   182075445   172705239   00
16             88407      1923375        78750        74890      5049255      7214677    34338375        -983592    31201800       4632417    69189000    61974323
17             87987      1671938        50625        74890      2685032      4570472    34194375        -932292   -24798900       -575703       7887480      3317009
I1             87987      1037100            0        74890      2628413      3828390    34558875        -804042   -20483400    -3776103         9495330      5666940
19            435027      1037100            0        82828      1646288      3201243    35758125        -664542   -16167900    -2715903    16209780         13008537
20             91029      1037100            0        75118      1237172      2440419    40642875        -525042   -11694900    -1599903    26823030    24382611
21            102309      1037100            0        74890       630914       1845213    60603570       3372768    -7221900        9428487    66182925    64337712
22             88407      1071413        11250        74890       417788       1663748    90371385       9063180    77659680    24228209   201322454   199658707
23             87987      1189988        48375        74890       996894      2398134   129277170        9153360    78946560    33640672   251017762   248619628
24             87987      1413188        78750        74890      2293726      3938541   151255620        9239040    80233440       37573010   278301110   274362569
25            435027      1715250        78750        82828      3503056      5814911   160966170        9317970    81520320        4697730   256502190   250687279
26             91029      1923375        78750        75118      4735184      6903456    29518875         -27000    82649700        7762770   119904345   113000889
27            102309      1671938        50625        74890      2506426      4406187    29752875         -42750    -1102500        9043470    37651095    33244908
28             88407      1037100            0        74890       586081       1786478    30873375        -65250    -1260000        3263850    32811975    31025497
29             87987      1037100            0        74890       417708       1617765    33301125        -76500    -1417500        -663750    31143375    29525610
30             87987      1037100            0        74890       417788       1617765    39414375        -87750    -1575000        -663750    37087875    35470110
31             87987      1037100            0        74890       417788       1617765    60603570       3670560    -1575000       14098140    76797270    75179505
32             87987      1037100            0        74890       417788       1617765    89596260       9333900   110842200       33848160   243620520   242002755
33             87987      1037100            0        74890       417788       1617765   126187920       9356400   111157200       46307235   293008755   291390990
34             87987      1037100            0        74890       417788       1617765   142316370       9378900   111472200       48981300   312148770   310531005
35             87987      1037100            0        74890       417788      1617765   143223795        9401400   111787200               0   264412395   262794630
36             87987      1037100            0        74890       417788       1617765       905625            0   11210Z200              0   113007825   111390060
37-40          87987      1037100            0        74890       417788      1617765             0            0             0             0            0    -1617765
a/  Internal Rate of Return: 27S.
II



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits by Type
Costs                                                  Benef its__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _             _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Yield and                                                                                  Agricultural                  Nat
Year       Overheads     Nursery      Total       Fuelwood       Poles      Sawloga       Fodder        Fruit         Crops        Total       Beuefite
1          16664259       663309    17327568              0            0            0            0            0            0             0   -17327568
2          27951093      6373106    34324199    15411108        8555400    16434450        4479300            0             0    44880258    10556069
3          19428530    10465111    29893641    17335860         3161700    19819200        4215150            0      2028240    46560150    16666509
4          11495990    16704175    28200165    16727994    -2511000    20221925           3644775             0      6095520    44179214    15979049
5          11275979    22053906    33329885    13724430    -8239500    17001225            2938500            0      9760680    35185335        1855450
6          10730285    20994837    31725122    -1168890   -12852000    -3671275            1771875            0    11444760    -4475530   -36200652
7           4479783      5837671    10317454   -15808710   -26271000   -18003775    -2912625                  0      5042520   -57953590   -68271044
8           3513939      1600488      5114427   -14836830   -26271000   -18003775    -2622375           2700000       525600   -58508380   -63622807
9           1845213       621000      2466213   -13864950   -26271000   -18003775    -2620125           9540000             0   -51219950   -53686063
10          1618185             0     1618185   -12893070   -26271000   -18003775    -2615625    24885000                   0   -34998470   -36516655
11          1617765             0     1617765      1851870   -18180000   -18003775    -2468250    45837000                 0      9036845       7419080
12          1617765       991854      2609619    37927764    20655000        -431425      2534625    69201000               0   129886964   127277345
13          1972743      3349347      5322090    64769352    35721000        3306225      2998000    66262500        1722600   174769677   169447587
14          2260419      5779025      9039444    81233625    44649000        7355000      3231000    58873500        5213880   200556005   192516561
15          1845213      7524993      9370206    72956925    39069000    11466000         2902500    47439000        8242020   182075445   172705239
16          1618185      5596492      7214677      8617605       567000    14332500       2032875    34114500        9524520    69189000    61974323
17          1617765      2952707      4570472    -5960595   -21407400               0    -2462625    33736500        3981600      7887480       3317009
1B          1617765      2210625      3828390    -5960595   -16013700               0    -2361375    33831000               0     9495330       5666940
19          1972743      1228500      3201243    -5960595   -10341000               0    -2548125    35059500               0    16209780    13008537
20          2260419.      180000      2440419    -5960595    -4612500               0    -2577375    39973500               0    26823030    24382611
21          1845213             0      1845213     7812465      8091000       4975710    -2418750    47722500               0    66182925    64337712
22          1618185        45563      1663748    43888359    55872000    41067470          2755125    57739500              0   201322454   199658707
23          1617765       780369      2398134    70729947    70938000    50669915          3397500    55282500              0   251017762   248619628
24          1617765      2320776      3938541    87194220    79866000    56467340          3840750    49140000       1792800   278301110   274362569
25          1972743      3842168      5814911    78917520    74286000    53902440          3872250    40162500       5361480   256502190   250687279
26          2260419      4643037      6903456    14578200    35784000    28665000          3155625    29295000       8426520   119904345   1130008B9
27          1845213      2560974      4406187             0            0            0    -1351125    29295000        9707220    37651095    33244908
28          1618185       168293      1786478             0            0            0    -1261125    30145500        3927600    32811975    31025497
29          1617765             0     1617765             0            0            0    -1459125    32602500               0    31143375    29525610
30          1617765             0     1617765             0            0            0    -1657125    38745000               0    37087875    35470110
31          1617765             0     1617765    13773060       8091000       8709210    -1498500    47722500               0    76797270    75179505
32          1617765             0     1617765    48768300    55872000    78443970          3576375    56989000              0   243549645   242002755
33          1617765             0     1617765    74379690    70938000    91157565          4353750    51975000              0   292804005   291390990
34          1617765             0     1617765    89545680    79866000    97577340          4957875    39690000              0   311636895   310531005
35          1617765             0     1617765    79957080    74286000    82567440         5118750    21735000               0   263664270   262794630
36          1617765             0     1617765    14578200    35784000    57330000          4410000            0             0   112102200   111390060
37-40       1617765             0     1617765             0            0            0            0            0             0            0    -1617765
a/  Internal Rate of Return:  27X.



ANNEX III
-88-                       Table 15
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Switching Values
IRR (%)          Switching
Values   a/
(%.)
Overall Project                              27
Costs                                                      +     190
Benefits                                                   -      65
Overhead                                                   +     765
Community Forestry Costs                                   +     561
Community Forestry Benefit                                 -      93
Demonstration Woodlots Costs                               +   6,271
Demonstration Woodlots Benefits                            -   2,339
Improvement of Natural Forest Costs                        +  12,532
Improvement of Natural Forest Benefits                     -   1,010
State Agro-forestry Costs                                  +     523
State Agro-forestry Benefits                               -     329
Community Forestry                           30
Costs                                                      +     506
Benefits                                                   -      84
Demonstration Woodlots                        19
Costs                                                      +     168
Benefits                                                   -      63
Improvement of Natural Resources          > 100
Costs                                                      +   1,141
Benefits                                                   -      92
State Agro-forestry                       > 100
Costs                                                      +      59
Benefits                                                   -      37
a! Based on opportunity cost of capital of 10%.



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Pre
Effective-    1983/84        1984/85       1985/86       1986/87       1987/88       1988/89
ness     1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4
Forestry Program
Nursery Establishment &  Raising Seedlingsn
Seedling Distribution                                                            XXXX          XXXX          XXXX          XXXX          XXXX
Planting                                                                            XXX           XXX           XXX           XXX            XXX
Civil Works & Procurement of Vehicles & Equipment
Construction of Roads
Construction of Staff Offices/Housing
Construction of University & Training Wing                                   xxxxXXYxYxxxXXXXY XYYxxx 
Vehicle Procurement                                            XXY
Equipment Procurement
Incremental Project Staffing                                  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Training
Community Forestry & Staff Training
Study Tours                                                                         XKXXXYXXXXIXXYYXX XX
Stove Construction/Installation
Overseas Training                                              XYYYYvXXYXXYXYYYXvX               XYYXX
Agro-Forestry
Cut Forest Cover
Agricultural Activity
Forest Planting                                                                                     XX             XX            XX            XX



-90-
ANNEX V
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Year and                           Disbursements
Semester                    Semester          Cumulative
1983/1
1983/2
1984/1                        0.3                0.3
1984/2                        0.5                0.8
1985/1                        1.3                2.1
1985/2                        2.0                4.1
1986/1                        1.8                5.9
1986/2                        1.6                7.5
1987/1                        1.4                8.9
1987/2                        1.4               10.3
1988/1                        1.5               11.8
1988/2                        1.7               13.5
1989/1                        1.8               15.3
1989/2                        1.8               17.1
1990/1                        0.9               18.0
1990/2



NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart
Chief
Conservator
of Forests
Special                            Deputy Chbf
CFAD                              Conservator
UNITS                              d Forests
Heod of CFAD
Conservator of Forests                                   Conservator of Forests                                        Conservaor
Head of                                                  Head a                                                    of Forests
Hills Community                                          Teral Community                                              (Teoitoral)
Forestry Unit                                            Faestry Unit
Ptantation
,si                      -  -ancger
Dvsona                                                       Agrodorestry
Forest Officer                                                  Ptontations
(Teritorial)
Admin.                                              Community                   Attached
Officers                  Rangers                     Fore'stOfie
Line at Command                                                                                     Officer
_ _ _ _  -   Information & Liaison                                                                                                       .
Territorta            Community Forestry            Forest
Activities            (PF, Strips, Woodlots)        Improvement
Wortd Bank-24655



-92-
ANNEX VII
NEPAL
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
List of Materials Available in Project File
No.                                    Item
1        Climate and Vegetation in the Terai
2        Guidelines for Panchayat and Private Plantation
Work Plans
3        Guidelines for Strip Plantation Work Plans
4        Guidelines forSmall-scale Demonstration Plantation
Work Plans
5        Guidelines for State Agro-forestry Plantation Work Plans
6        Guidelines for Natural Forest Improvement Work Plans
7        Assumptions Used for Forecast of Yields
8        Sociological (Baseline Survey in Project Area)
9        Priorities for Forestry Research
10        Overseas Training Requirements
11        Outline of National Forestry Plan
12        Job Descriptions
13        Stove Improvement Program
14        Draft TOR for Mid-term Review
15        Technical Assistance Draft Terms of Reference



80-                                                                                                         M-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t,5                                         85                                                            8
C         H                  N         A
50'                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N E PA L   30'-
-30-              H0      RCNAIAA(                      H UM LA
|  I t                            / t; M                  \/SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
/lFowl  t    ~).  X  z  *g   \   ,   X                                                                       PROJECT AREA
BAJHANG         ->       I I       I.-,~,                                                                                                                          Project area
AIA       \. %  B A J H A N{BA JUR A                  M  )GA U                        ,                                                                                             Forest divisions
.i  B       A      A I-. T A D I                                                              t ,  <  . J B A J U R A    M  U G  U   j   \                                        _      Selected  ighkosys
z~~~~~~~~~~~~-    _ > _   <J\(_ */                                                                                                                           ----       Rivers
4
!                -         4   J      J U M L A       5        .                                                                                                 i    National capto1
e  AOELOHURA 4J'D O                          i                     )\  /   /  t d   g  /                         7  / ~)                                                       0    Selected towns
r       ~;            HAAB        KALIKOT                                 D t  L P A                                                                                       -   -  District boundaries
y - 5"'!> ok > , 1 r 0 s                                                                                                      Zonol boundories
AJID  KC    i.~  Bt\                                                      /Regional bo-ed -rins
>ANCH                                         AILEKHA2  MUSTANG O                                                                                                                   ._ _   International boundaries
J < -K                                            ,t                                                             riR U K U M  I.\
.-                 ,         XS U R K H                                                                      M  Tr --< (9  ,  MA   N     A N G/
MYA    ~                                     A
7t B~~~~ A   R    O>  I"  Y Ac                                     4     -   )    ASK        WAMLUANG   GU  .1\,ISM  A  G  D) v_
vs   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~R I YA                    A            SLYA
'' -'.' YGA L MI'.'cANIR O L P A            .        A                       G A    IDVv    A i    K
N i                         tA  A  L   K A S KI   L A G ORA
,> I . d _ 2 ^~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 (s okhoro~~BT                                     AM  I J )g 
I        N          D           I          A         8n    SA RA  A                     R> S ARAD          A            Y                        HANPrUt-LUA          AM I
AILOMETERS0    20    A0    60  B0  100  120  140 160  leo / i UHAN         UKHURt                                                                        DIN0 -
f  ! ,~~~~~~~~z                        S1ANKIWSAWgesAf
MISS0 A       20         Ac        60         80        100                                                                                                                      1-'         '5,a_'~5-   50551 s<RIIATNAGAPEJHNG
t,siv,iroCcspvrvticc Thendenscvi,iviiiivvivviusc xdIhelo  mnssiv.sfloW  o vdlls mvpi(olvsivi
r pi-,riron fv mh  1 /rc World 8 H 7ere ribthe lnirtiraiT /Ficvcc Ccoci,vccc vcy,v0virrv'ire
ocinIte /vgcistiievtic n/ any   rvc r any endor,eciiiciitorvccccivnc& pstsuchcv,loir,Ov7                                                                                                                                                                          U 0
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v                                                                                             so h'                                                            Rp,'                                                             aa  
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AF                                                                                 AH 



