Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3806 RU
                              Loan Agreement
                    (Environmental Management Project)
                                  between
                            RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated February 6, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3806 RU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 6, 1995, between RUSSIAN
FEDERATION (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   The Borrower intends to continue its discussions with
the Swiss Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations regarding a
grant
to the Borrower in the amount of 10 million Swiss Francs to
assist the Borrower in the fulfillment of the objectives of the
Borrower's Environmental Framework Program; and
      (C)   The Borrower intends to establish the National
Pollution Abatement Facility (the NPAF, as defined in this
Agreement), through a resolution of the Borrower, in accordance
with this Agreement, and appoint the NPAF to carry out Part B
of the Project with the Borrower's assistance, as provided in
this Agreement;
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
                  "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
            arisen under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Advance Agreement" means any agreement between the
Borrower and a proposed Sub-borrower, entered into pursuant to
Section 3.3(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, concerning an Investment Project Preparation
Advance;
      (b)   "CPPI" means the Borrower's Center for Project
Preparation and Implementation, a non-commercial organization
founded by the MEPNR pursuant to MEPNR Order No. 247, dated
December 2, 1993, and duly registered on December 30, 1993, by
the Division on Registration of Noncommercial Organizations,
Department of Social and Political Relations, Municipal
Government of Moscow;
      (c)   "CPPI Statutes" means the statutes, decision,
charter, or other founding instruments of the CPPI, including
any legal and regulatory enactments upon which such instruments
are based, in existence as of the day and year of this
Agreement;
      (d)   "CPPI Supervisory Board" means the supervisory board
of the CPPI consisting of representatives of the Borrower's
ministries and agencies, and chairpersons of the supervisory
committees of Project subcomponents, and responsible for
overall coordination and monitoring of the Project;
      (e)   "Investment Project" means a high priority resource
recovery/pollution abatement project selected in accordance
with the procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in
Sections A and B of Schedule 7 to this Agreement and proposed
to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of
the NPAF Sub-loan;
      (f)   "Investment Project Preparation Advance" means a
foreign currency advance made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower, out of the proceeds of the Loan, pursuant to Section
3.03(c) and (d) of this Agreement, to a proposed Sub-borrower
for the preparation of technical, environmental, financial, and
legal information concerning a proposed Investment Project;
Page  3
      (g)   "MEPNR" means the Borrower's Ministry of
Environmental Protection and Natural Resources;
      (h)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
      (i)   "NPAF" means the National Pollution Abatement
Facility to be established by the Borrower pursuant to Section
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
      (j)   "NPAF Account" means a separate bank account
established and maintained by the Borrower on terms and
conditions set forth in Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
      (k)   "NPAF Sub-loan" means a foreign currency sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, pursuant to a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, out of the proceeds of the Loan to
a Sub-borrower for an Investment Project;
      (l)   "NPAF Supervisory Board" means the supervisory board
responsible for consideration and approval of Investment
Projects, established pursuant to the Resolution and consisting
of representa-tives of the relevant ministries and agencies of
the Borrower;
      (m)   "Operating Instructions" means instructions
containing the operating procedures and policies of the NPAF,
adopted pursuant to Section 3.03 (h) of this Agreement;
      (n)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated January 14, 1993, and
March 31, 1993, between the Bank and the Borrower;
      (o)   "Resolution" means the resolution or resolutions, and
all attachments thereto, adopted by the Borrower pursuant to
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time in agreement with the Bank;
      (p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (q)   "Sub-borrower" means an enterprise or entity selected
in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections A and
B of Schedule 7 to this Agreement to carry out an Investment
Project; and
      (r)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement
between the Borrower and a Sub-borrower, entered into pursuant
to Section 3.03 (f) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, concerning the financing of an
Investment Project by the Borrower, and such term includes all
schedules to such Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred ten million
dollars ($110,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or if the
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by a Sub-borrower under a NPAF Sub-loan to
meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Page  4
Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expen- ditures made (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required under Parts A,
B(1) and C of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in a commercial
bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
Page  5
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, environmental and commercial
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, for the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project:
      (a)   adopt a resolution (the Resolution) satisfactory to
the Bank, establishing the NPAF and authorizing the carrying
out of Part B of the Project in accordance with Schedules 5, 7
and 8 to this Agreement, and including, without limitation, the
terms and conditions governing:
            (i)   the use by the NPAF of Loan proceeds and goods
                  and services financed by the Loan;
           (ii)   the rights and responsibilities of the MOF,
                  MEPNR, NPAF Supervisory Board, CPPI and other
                  appropriate parties of the Borrower with
                  respect to the NPAF;
          (iii)   the NPAF Account;
           (iv)   procedures, eligibility criteria and terms and
Page  6
                  conditions related to the Investment Projects;
                  and
            (v)   maintenance and audit of records and accounts
                  of the NPAF, and disclosure of information
                  related to the NPAF, in accordance with Article
                  IV of this Agreement;
      (b)   adopt all necessary internal legal and regulatory
decisions to enable NPAF Sub-loans and Investment Project
Preparation Advances to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan
to Sub-borrowers;
      (c)   ensure that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Investment Project Preparation Advances will be made in
accordance with the procedures and eligibility criteria set
forth in Sections A and B of Schedule 8 to this Agreement;
      (d)   ensure that each Investment Project Preparation
Advance is made pursuant to an advance agreement (the Advance
Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and the proposed
Sub-borrower, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank and which shall include, without
limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in Section C of
Schedule 8 to this Agreement;
      (e)   ensure that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Investment Projects are selected and approved in accordance
with the procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in
Sections A and B of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
      (f)   ensure that each NPAF Sub-loan is made pursuant to a
subsidiary loan agreement (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
entered into between the Borrower and the Sub-borrower, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank, which shall include, without limitation, the terms and
conditions set forth in Section C of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement;
      (g)   cause each Sub-borrower to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      (h)   ensure that the NPAF operates pursuant to operating
instructions (the Operating Instructions), satisfactory to the
Bank, which shall contain a model Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with terms and conditions set forth in Part C of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement and a model Advance Agreement with terms and
conditions set forth in Part C of Schedule 8 to this Agreement,
and the operating procedures of the NPAF, including such
matters as: (i) project eligibility criteria; (ii) project
approval and appraisal criteria, including the Bank's right of
prior review approval; (iii) staff and consultant
responsibilities; (iv) procurement procedures; (v) auditing and
reporting requirements; (vi) general terms and conditions of
NPAF Sub-loans; and (vii) environmental guidelines.
      Section 3.04.  In order to facilitate the efficient
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure the
operation of the CPPI with functions, staffing, including
consultants, and other resources satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and required for: (i)
Parts A, B(1) and C of the Project shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) Part B(2)
of the Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
9 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Financial and Other Covenants
Page  7
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall and shall cause relevant
ministries and agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof to:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
                  audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied by independent
                  auditors satisfactory to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than four months after
                  the end of each such year, the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, in respect of any repayments of
principal and advances, payment of commitment fees, interest
and other payments to be made by the Sub-borrowers under their
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Advance Agreements,
if applicable:
            (i)   open, by the date on which the Borrower shall
                  receive the first such payment, and thereafter
                  maintain, in a bank satisfactory to the Bank, a
Page  8
                  NPAF account (the NPAF Account), on terms and
                  conditions, including auditing conditions,
                  satisfactory to the Bank; and
           (ii)   promptly upon receipt of such repayments and
                  payments, credit the same to the NPAF Account.
      (b)  Each March 1 and September 1, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   withdraw from the NPAF Account an amount
                  equivalent to the amount of interest and
                  commitment charge due from the Borrower to the
                  Bank under Article II of this Agreement with
                  respect to NPAF Sub-Loans and, if no such
                  amounts are available in the NPAF Account, the
                  amounts due herein shall accrue for the benefit
                  of the Borrower and be withdrawn out of the
                  NPAF Account at such time as sufficient funds
                  are available in the NPAF Account;
           (ii)   utilize the amounts, if any, remaining in the
                  NPAF Account following withdrawals under
                  Section 4.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement,
                  excluding the amounts equivalent to the
                  repayment of principal under the NPAF Sub-loans
                  and Investment Project Preparation Advances,
                  for the operating expenses of the NPAF expected
                  to be incurred during the next six months;
          (iii)   utilize the amounts, if any, remaining in the
                  NPAF Account following withdrawals under
                  Section 4.02 (b) (i) and Section 4.02 (b) (ii)
                  of this Agreement, excluding the amounts
                  equivalent to the repayment of principal under
                  the NPAF Sub-loans and Investment Project
                  Preparation Advances, as follows: (A) thirty
                  percent (30%) shall be used by the Borrower for
                  payments due from the Borrower to the Bank
                  under this Agreement; and (B) seventy percent
                  (70%) shall be available to the NPAF for loans
                  to Russian sub-borrowers for high priority
                  recovery/pollution abatement projects; and
           (iv)   utilize the amounts, if any, remaining in the
                  NPAF Account following withdrawals under
                  Section 4.02 (b) (i), Section 4.02 (b) (ii) and
                  Section 4.02 (b) (iii) of this Agreement for
                  loans and advances to Russian sub-borrowers for
                  high priority recovery/pollution abatement
                  projects.
      (c)   The Borrower shall select a bank satisfactory to the
Bank and enter into an arrangement, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, with such a bank to administer the
Sub-loans and manage the NPAF Account.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that the Resolution or CPPI Statutes shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of the NPAF to
implement Part B of the Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
Page  9
the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Resolution and all other actions necessary to
implement Part B of the Project, including any actions
necessary to authorize the CPPI to implement Part B of the
Project, have been duly adopted by the Borrower; and
      (b)   the core team of consultants necessary to perform the
executive, financial and operating duties related to the
selection and appraisal of Investment Projects has been
selected and consultants' contracts with such consultants have
been properly executed.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Resolution has been
duly adopted and is legally binding upon the Borrower in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance or the First Deputy Minister
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Ul. Ilyinka, 9
            Moscow, Russia
                                          Telex:
                                            112008
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
Page  10
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                        By /s/ Victor Danilov-Danilian
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated            % of
                               (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) NPAF Sub-loans                50,000,000        100%
    under Part B(2)
    of the Project
(2) Investment Project             5,000,000        100%
    Preparation Advance
    under Part B(2) of
    the Project
(3) Goods for Parts A,             6,700,000        100% of foreign
    B(1) and C of the                               expenditures,
    Project                                         100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75%
                                                    of local expen-
                                                    ditures for other
                                                    items procured
                                                    locally
(4) Consultants'
    services and
    training:
    (a) for Parts A and          33,700,000        100%
        C of the Project
    (b) for Part B(1)             3,800,000        100%
        of the Project
                               Amount of the
Page  11
                               Loan Allocated            % of
                               (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Incremental Recurrent         2,000,000          100% of local
    Costs                                            expenditures
                                                     incurred up to
                                                     November 30, 1997,
                                                     and 50% of local
                                                     expenditures
                                                     thereafter
(6) Refunding of                    460,000          Amounts due
    Project                                          pursuant to
    Preparation                                      Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                          of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                   8,340,000
                                ___________
    TOTAL                       110,000,000
                                ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "Incremental Recurrent Costs" means the
incremental recurrent costs incurred for Project
implementation, such as operating costs, vehicle and equipment
maintenance and communications expenses.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) any NPAF
Sub-loan under Category (1) of this Schedule, unless: (i) the
Operating Instructions have been adopted in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the Borrower has entered into an
arrangement with a bank pursuant to Section 4.02 (c) of this
Agreement; and (iii) the Investment Project concerned has been
approved in accordance with the procedures, eligibility
criteria and on the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule
7 to this Agreement; or (c) any Investment Project Preparation
Advance under Category (2) of this Schedule, unless:  (i) the
Operating Instructions have been adopted in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the Borrower has entered into an
arrangement with a bank pursuant to Section 4.02 (c) of this
Agreement; and (iii) the Investment Project Preparation Advance
concerned has been approved in accordance with the procedures,
eligibility criteria and on the terms and conditions set forth
in Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods, and consultants' services and
training, and incremental recurrent costs not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:
Page  12
(i) strengthen and streamline federal and regional
institutional structures for environmental management; (ii)
improve federal and regional environmental policy formulation
and implementation; (iii) upgrade federal and regional
environmental management systems; and (iv) assist in the
financing of economically viable high priority resource
recovery/pollution abatement projects in the Russian
Federation.
    The Project is part of the Borrower's Environmental
Framework Program and consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Technical Assistance
1.  Policy and Regulatory Support
    Strengthening of the Borrower's capacity to develop,
implement and enforce environmental policies and regulations on
federal and regional levels (with focus on Urals and Upper
Volga regions) through the provision of consulting services,
training and goods.
2.  Environmental Epidemiology
    Strengthening of federal and regional environmental
epidemio-logy management system, with emphasis on the
collection and analysis of environmental health data,
identification of the most urgent problems and development of
appropriate federal and regional policies, through the
provision of consulting services, training and goods.
3.  Water Quality and Water Resource Management
    Development and implementation of an integrated planning and
regulatory reform program on federal and regional levels (with
focus on the Upper Volga River basin, the Urals region and the
North Caucasus region), with emphasis on the improvement of
drinking water supplies, development of a prioritized
investment and action
programs, and development of water management policy issues,
through the provision of consulting services, training and
goods.
4.  Hazardous Waste Management
    Development of a national industrial waste data management
system and development and demonstration of a regional
regulatory hazardous waste management system, through the
provision of consulting services, training and goods.
Part B:   NPAF
    Strengthening of financial delivery mechanisms required to
address priority environmental management investment through:
    (1)  the establishment and operation of the NPAF; and
    (2)  financing of Investment Projects and re-financing of
similar high priority recovery/pollution abatement projects.
Part C:   CPPI
    Maintenance of a Center for Project Preparation and Imple-
mentation responsible for: (i) implementation of the Project,
following the Bank's procurement, disbursement, accounting,
auditing and reporting requirements; (ii) facilitation of
training activities under the Project; (iii) facilitation of
overall Project coordi- nation; (iv) dissemination of
information to third parties regarding the environmental
projects of the Borrower; and (v) interaction with other
Page  13
multilateral funding institutions and other funding agencies.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
    beginning March 1, 2000
    through   March 1, 2011                    4,585,000
And on September 1, 2011                       4,545,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                The interest rate (expressed as a
                                percentage per annum) applicable to
                                the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
Page  14
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Parts B and C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to
in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when
contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors
satisfactory to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
3.  In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents
based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed
with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the Russian Federation may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $2,330,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers from the Russian Federation
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  15
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contractsestimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
A.  Overall Coordination and Management of the Project
1.  The MEPNR shall be responsible for implementation of the
Page  16
Project. The overall coordination and monitoring of the Project
shall be the responsibility of the CPPI Supervisory Board.
2.  The CPPI shall be responsible for, inter alia, the following
day-to-day activities related to Project implementation:
procurement, accounting, disbursement, auditing, reporting,
monitoring and evaluation of activities under all federal and
regional components of the Project, and preparation, appraisal
and supervision of Investment Projects. The CPPI shall be
assisted by consultants providing procurement, financial
management and information systems, and general project advice
and services, project performance and progress evaluation, and
sub-project investment services. The CPPI shall liaise with
international donors, Borrower's ministries and agencies, other
parties and sub-component implementing teams regarding Project
activities. The CPPI shall engage consultants (individuals and
firms) for the purpose of staffing the CPPI, NPAF and
subcomponent implementation teams.
B.  Part A of the Project: Technical Assistance
1.  Policy and Regulatory Support
    Policy and regulatory support subcomponent of the Project
shall be implemented by the relevant federal and regional
environmental policy teams, supervised by Governmental
Commission on Environment and Use of Natural Resources and the
inter-regional environmental councils of the Upper Volga and
Urals regions, in cooperation with the MEPNR, relevant regional
authorities and CPPI.
2.  Environmental Epidemiology
    Environmental epidemiology subcomponent of the Project shall
be implemented by federal and two regional centers, supervised
by federal and regional subcomponent inter-agency committees,
in cooperation with the MEPNR, Ministry of Public Health, State
Committee for Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance,
relevant regional authorities and CPPI.
3.  Water Quality and Water Resource Management
    Water quality and water resource management subcomponent of
the Project shall be implemented by federal and three regional
teams, supervised by the relevant federal and regional
management committees in the regions of the Upper Volga, the
Urals and North Caucases, in cooperation with the relevant
regional administrations, the MEPNR, Committee for Water
Resources Management and CPPI.
4.  Hazardous Waste Management
    Hazardous waste management subcomponent of the Project shall
be implemented by federal and regional teams, supervised by
subcomponent management committees, in cooperation with the
MEPNR, the Institute of Economic Problems of Nature Management,
administrations and environmental protection committees of
Yaroslavl and Vologda Oblast, the CPPI and relevant ministries
and agencies.
C.  Part B of the Project: National Pollution Abatement Facility
1.  The CPPI, assisted by consultants, shall provide
professional services related to the selection, design,
appraisal and supervision of the Investment Projects, on the
basis of procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in
Sections A and B of Schedule 7 to this Agreement and the
Operating Instructions.
2.  The NPAF Supervisory Board shall review and approve
Investment Projects proposed by the CPPI.
Page  17
3.  The MOF, as the sub-loan lender of record, shall take
decisions related to the Investment Projects considered and
approved by the NPAF Supervisory Board, and shall enter into
appropriate Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
Page  18
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 7
              On-Lending Procedures, Eligibility Criteria and
                Terms and Conditions of Investment Projects
A.  Procedures
1.  No expenditures for goods and services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless: (i) the Bank has reviewed and
issued a no-objection with respect to the Investment Project
before the Investment Project is approved by the NPAF
Supervisory Board; and (ii) expenditures under the NPAF Sub-
Page  19
loan for such an Investment Project shall have been made not
earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required
under paragraph 2 of Part A of this Schedule in respect of such
NPAF Sub-loan.
2.  In addition to the general procedures described in paragraph
1 of Part A of this Schedule, the following procedures shall be
followed in connection with any proposed Investment Project:
    (a)   a Sub-borrower seeking a NPAF Sub-loan shall prepare
and submit to the CPPI an application and summary of the
proposed Investment Project;
    (b)   an initial review of the proposed Investment Project
shall be undertaken by the NPAF consultants, who shall then
prepare an initial review summary;
    (c)   the Bank shall review and comment upon the initial
review summary for each proposed Investment Project;
    (d)   following the Bank review and comment, the director of
the CPPI shall determine, taking into account the
recommendations of the NPAF consultants, whether or not to
further prepare and appraise the proposed Investment Project;
    (e)   if a decision is made to proceed with the preparation
and appraisal of the proposed Investment Project, the NPAF
consultants shall prepare a feasibility study for the proposed
Investment Project in accordance with the Operating
Instructions and in the form satisfactory to the Bank. The
feasibility study shall include: (i) a description of the Sub-
borrower, including its legal status and ownership; and (ii) a
summary and detailed description of the Investment Project,
including financing plan, cost and benefit analysis,
environmental impact assessment and other pertinent
environmental information, financial projections, cash flow
forecast, foreign currency justification, proposed procurement
arrangements, and status of authorizations and licenses;
    (f)  prior to submitting the proposed Investment Project to
the NPAF Supervisory Board, the proposed Investment Project
shall be submitted to the Bank for review and a no-objection.
When presenting the proposed Investment Project to the Bank,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of
the Sub-borrower to which the NPAF Sub-loan is proposed to be
made and the approved feasibi- lity study for such Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the draft
Subsidiary Loan Agreement containing the proposed terms and
conditions of the NPAF Sub-loan and the schedule of
amortization of the NPAF Sub-loan; and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
    (g)   following the Bank's review and no-objection, and the
NPAF Supervisory Board appraisal and approval, of the proposed
Investment Project, the Borrower, based on the determination of
the NPAF Supervisory Board, shall make the final decision
whether to approve the proposed Investment Project; and
    (h)   following the approval of the Investment Project by the
Borrower, the Borrower, Sub-borrower and any other relevant
party shall execute a Subsidiary Loan Agreement giving the
Borrower legal rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower and containing, inter alia, the terms and
conditions set forth in Part C of this Schedule 7.
B.  Eligibility Criteria
    NPAF Sub-loans shall be made only to enterprises selected
and evaluated in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Page  20
Bank. The evaluation criteria shall include the following:
    (a)   technical-economic criteria demonstrating the feasi-
bility and cost efficiency of the proposed Investment Project;
    (b)   environmental criteria incorporating environmental
assessment and audit considerations and demonstrating
significant reduction of harmful environmental impacts from
existing operations; and
    (c)   financial criteria demonstrating that the proposed
Investment Project is a commercially viable project.
C.        Terms and Conditions
1.  Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall require the Sub-
borrower to, inter alia:
    (a)   carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers, and in accordance with sound technical, financial,
environmental, commercial and managerial standards;
    (b)   maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial conditions, including separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect all resources and expenditures related to
the Investment Project;
    (c)   have its records, accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors satis- factory to the Borrower, and furnish to the
Borrower not later than six months after the end of each such
year certified copies of its financial statements for such year
so audited and the report of such audit by the auditors of such
scope and such detail as the NPAF shall have reasonably
requested (which report shall include an analysis of the Sub-
borrower's performance, as measured by the performance
indicators satisfactory to the NPAF and the Bank, which shall
include, inter alia, commercial, technical, operational,
environmental, administrative and financial indicators);
    (d)   procure the goods and services to be financed by the
NPAF Sub-loans in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 9
to this Agreement and to use such goods and services
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
    (e)   allow the Borrower, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to
inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
    (f)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice, including insurance
covering hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the NPAF
Sub-loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by
the Sub-borrower to replace or repair such goods;
    (g)   assume the foreign exchange risk between the Dollar and
the ruble;
    (h)   contribute from amounts generated internally funds for
the Investment Project equal to not less than twenty percent of
the total cost of the Investment Project and pay an up-front
project appraisal fee equal to one percent of the proposed NPAF
Sub-loan amount;
Page  21
    (i)   prepare and promptly furnish to the Borrower, for
forwarding to the Bank, if so requested by the Bank, all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Sub-borrower and to the benefits to
be derived from the Investment Project;
    (j)   give the Borrower the right to suspend or terminate the
right of the Sub-borrower to the use of the proceeds of the
NPAF Sub-loan upon failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
    (k)   at the conclusion of the Investment Project, submit to
the Borrower, in a manner and by date satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank, an Investment Project completion report.
2.  Each NPAF Sub-loan shall: (i) be denominated and be
repayable (principle and interest) in Dollars; (ii) carry an
interest rate satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) require the
payment of a loan supervision fee equal to 0.25 percent for the
first five years and 0.125 percent for all subsequent years;
(iv) be issued for a maximum maturity period of eight years, or
such longer period as may be satisfactory to the Bank, with up
to three years grace period for the repayment of the principal
of the NPAF Sub-loan; (v) be equal to no less than $350,000 and
no more than $7,000,000, unless otherwise agreed upon by the
Bank; and (vi) contribute no more than seventy percent of the
total cost of the Investment Project, unless otherwise agreed
upon by the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 8
              On-Lending Procedures, Eligibility Criteria and
                 Terms and Conditions of Investment Project
                            Preparation Advances
A.  Procedures
1.  The following procedures shall be followed in connection
with any proposed Investment Project Preparation Advance:
    (a)   a Sub-borrower seeking an Investment Project
Preparation Advance for a NPAF Sub-loan shall prepare and
submit to the NPAF, together with an application and summary of
the proposed Investment Project, an application for the
Investment Project Preparation Advance, in form and with
information (including technical, environmental, financial, and
legal information) satisfactory to the NPAF;
    (b)   if the NPAF determines that the proposal for the
Investment Project Preparation Advance meets the technical,
environmental, financial, and legal criteria, the proposal
shall be sent to the Bank, together with the initial review
summary for the proposed Investment Project;
    (c)   following the Bank's review and no-objection, and the
NPAF Supervisory Board or its appointee approval, the Borrower
shall, based on the determination of the NPAF Supervisory
Board, make the final decision whether or not to approve the
Investment Project Preparation Advance; and
    (d)   following the approval of the Investment Project
Preparation Advance by the Borrower, the Borrower, Sub-borrower
and any other relevant party shall execute an Advance Agreement
giving the Borrower legal rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower and containing, inter
alia, the terms and conditions set forth in Part C of this
Schedule 8.
B.  Eligibility Criteria
Page  22
    Investment Project Preparation Advances shall be made only
to enterprises selected and evaluated in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Bank. The evaluation criteria
shall include technical, environmental, financial and legal
criteria.
C.  Terms and Conditions
1.  Each Advance Agreement shall require the Sub-borrower,
unless otherwise agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank, to,
inter alia:
    (a)   carry out preparation work and feasibility studies
related to the proposed Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers, and in accordance with sound technical, financial,
environmental, commercial and managerial standards;
    (b)   maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial conditions, including separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect all resources and expenditures related to
the Investment Project Preparation Advance;
    (c)   procure the goods and services to be financed by the
Investment Project Preparation Advance in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 9 to this Agreement and to use such
goods and services exclusively in the carrying out of
preparation work and feasibility studies related to the
proposed the Investment Project;
    (d)   allow the Borrower, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to
inspect any relevant records and documents;
    (e)   assume the foreign exchange risk between the Dollar and
the ruble;
    (f)   prepare and promptly furnish to the Borrower, for
forwarding to the Bank, if so requested by the Bank, all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Sub-borrower and to the benefits to
be derived from the Investment Project Preparation Advance;
    (g)   give the Borrower the right to suspend or terminate the
right of the Sub-borrower to the use of the proceeds of the
Investment Project Preparation Advance upon failure by such
Sub-borrower to perform its obligations under the Advance
Agreement; and
    (h)   at the conclusion of preparation work and feasibility
studies related to the proposed Investment Project, submit to
the Borrower, in a manner and by date satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank, an Investment Project preparation
report.
2.  Each Investment Project Preparation Advance shall, unless
otherwise agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank: (i) be
denominated and be repayable (principle and interest) in
Dollars; (ii) carry an interest rate satisfactory to the Bank;
(iii) be equal to no more than $300,000; and (vi) contribute no
more than eighty percent of the total cost of preparation work
and feasibility studies related to the proposed the Investment
Project.
                                SCHEDULE 9
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
                           Under NPAF Sub-Loans
Page  23
Section I.      Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to
in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when
contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors
satisfactory to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
3.  In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents
based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed
with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the Russian Federation may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $33,190,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers from the Russian Federation
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
Page  24
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to the Loan Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the NPAF in the carrying out of Part B of
the Project, the NPAF shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the NPAF shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above.\1a
