                                 Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR1520



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     (COFN-03810 IBRD-38060)



                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 110 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                          RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                     FOR A

                ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                               March 30, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Russian Federation
Europe and Central Asia
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2011)

                             Currency Unit = Ruble
                             1.00 Ruble = US$ 0.033
                            US$ 1.00 = 30.25 Rubles
                                 FISCAL YEAR
                   Russian Federation: January 1 – December 31
                          World Bank: July 1 – June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CPPI          Center for Preparation and Implementation of International Projects on Technical
              Assistance (originally Center for Project Preparation and Implementation)
CAS           World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
EFP           Environmental Framework Program
EMP           Environmental Management Project
FLA           Final Loan Agreement
GC            General Consultant
GOR           Government of Russia
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IS            International Shopping
MEPNR         Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources
MNR           Ministry of Natural Resources
MNRE          Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology
MOEDT         Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NEAP          National Environmental Action Plan
NPAF          National Pollution Abatement Facility
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
PEL           Past Environmental Liability
REAP          Regional Environmental Action Plan
RF            Russian Federation
Roshydromet   Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring Service of the Russian Federation
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SB            Supervisory Board
SCEP          State Committee for Environmental Protection
SEAP          Sectoral Environmental Action Plan
TA            Technical Assistance
                              Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                            Country Director: Michal J Rutkowski
                             Sector Manager: Benoit Paul Blarel
                        Project Team Leader: Adriana Damianova
                           ICR Team Leader: Adriana Damianova
                                              Richard J. Cooke/ Bernard Baratz/
                       ICR Primary Authors:
                                              Vassili Rodionov
                                              Craig M. Meisner/Adriana
                                 ICR Editors:
                                              Damianova
                                         Russian Federation
                                  Environmental Management Project



                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................... 11
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 20
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 25
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 25
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 27
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 30
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 31
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 32
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 47
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 48
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 50
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 50
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 51
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 66
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 67
  MAP IBRD No.39156
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Environmental
Country:               Russian Federation       Project Name:
                                                                       Management Project
                                                                       COFN-03810,IBRD-
Project ID:            P008821                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       38060
ICR Date:              02/08/2012               ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       RUSSIAN
Lending Instrument:    FIL                      Borrower:
                                                                       FEDERATION
Original Total
                       USD 110.00M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 86.47M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 86.47M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology (MNRE)
 Ministry of Economic Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date               Process         Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/16/1992     Effectiveness:          08/30/1995       08/30/1995
                                                                              08/30/1995
                                                                              09/27/1996
                                                                              07/23/1997
                                                                              01/19/1998
                                                                              03/05/1999
                                                                              01/25/2000
                                                                              08/07/2002
Appraisal:            01/24/1994     Restructuring(s):
                                                                              08/13/2003
                                                                              03/31/2004
                                                                              01/20/2006
                                                                              06/28 /2007
                                                                              05/14/2008
                                                                              08/19/2009
                                                                              12/22/2009
Approval:             11/08/1994     Mid-term Review:        02/10/1998       02/10/1999
                                     Closing:                06/30/2001       06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                                     Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                                 Ratings
                                                                                  Moderately
Quality at Entry:          Unsatisfactory             Government:
                                                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                      Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                      Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                          Overall Borrower
                           Unsatisfactory                                         Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                          Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                   Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                             Yes                                                Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                        Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory1

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                       Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                         13                     13
Other industry                                                            67                     67
Solid waste management                                                     5                       5
Sub-national government administration                                     9                       9
Water supply                                                               6                       6


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                    11                    11
Environmental policies and institutions                                    23                    23
Other financial and private sector development                             22                    22
Pollution management and environmental health                              22                    22
Water resource management                                                  22                    22




1
  This rating was assigned during the last restructuring (Dec., 2009) and retained until closing in
recognition of agency efforts in advancing preparation of Part F (Past Environmental Liabilities) project -
despite continued institutional delays. Hence this rating does not align with project DO ratings at closure –
moderately unsatisfactory.
E. Bank Staff
       Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:          Philippe H. Le Houerou           Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:        Michal Rutkowski                 R. Cheetham
Sector Manager:          Benoit Paul Blarel (Acting)      John Brown
Project Team Leader:     Adriana J Damianova              Roger J. Batstone
ICR Team Leader:         Adriana J Damianova
ICR Primary Author:      Richard J. Cooke
                         Bernard Baratz
                         Vassili Rodionov




F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Development Objective of the Environmental Management Project (EMP) was to
provide critical support to the Environmental Framework Program (EFP) whose major
objectives were to incorporate environmental and natural resources management
concerns directly into the economic, social and political adjustment process, and
strengthen financial delivery mechanism.

The specific objectives of the EMP were to assist the Russian authorities to: (i) strengthen
and streamline federal and regional institutional structures for environmental and natural
resource management; (ii) improve federal and regional environment policy and strategy
formulation and implementation; (iii) upgrade environmental and natural resource
management systems; (iv) address priority environmental management investment needs
through the setting up of initial capitalization of the National Pollution Abatement
Facility; (v) assist in the financing of economically viable, high priority resource
recovery/pollution abatement projects in the country; and (vi) facilitate the flow of donor
funds and resources to the environmental protection sector.

To monitor progress and development objective achievements two overall indicators
were selected and reported in Implementation Supervision Reports (ISRs) to comply with
Bank operational requirements at the time (see below). However, the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) presented a set of key performance indicators for which each component
was benchmarked (Table 4.4, page 64) and is reproduced, with results, as Table A2.1 in
Annex 2 of this Implementation Completion Report (ICR).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There were no formal revisions to the Project's Development Objectives.            See also
Section 1.3 for further details.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target        Completion or
                                             documents)         Values         Target Years
                Achievement of reductions of emissions (discharges, wastes) projected in NPAF
Indicator 1 :
                subproject appraisal documents
                                                                            Includes projected
                                                                            reductions for 5
                                                                            completed projects
                                                                            and
                                          emissions -
                                                                            for 2 projects with
Value                                     120,000 t
                                                                            signed
quantitative or No reduction              discharges -
                                                                            FLAs: emissions -
Qualitative)                              35,000 t solid
                                                                            123,000 t;
                                          wastes - 250,000 t
                                                                            discharges -
                                                                            35,000 t; solid
                                                                            wastes -
                                                                            255,000 t
Date achieved 11/08/1994                  06/15/2011                        06/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Targets achieved at subproject level.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                          Target Years
                Amount of total investments in pollution abatement projects, including NPAF
Indicator 1 :
                (loan) investments
                                                             (i) USD102
                                                                             (i) USD102 million
                                                             million - total
Value                                    USD125 million,                     - total investment,
                                                             investment,
(quantitative   None                     USD54.5 million                     (ii) USD37.7
                                                             (ii) USD37.7
or Qualitative)                          (NPAF)                              million - EMP loan
                                                             million - EMP
                                                                             funds
                                                             loan funds
Date achieved 11/08/1994                 06/15/2011          12/30/2010      06/15/2011
Comments
                Targets were 70-80% achieved. Targets were adjusted following cancellation of
(incl. %
                USD 20.4 million NPAF funds
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     03/02/1995                                                                      0.00
  2     03/08/1995       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                  0.00
 3     07/06/1995       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory             0.00
 4     11/27/1995       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory             1.84
 5     06/11/1996       Satisfactory            Satisfactory              4.86
 6     01/02/1997       Satisfactory            Satisfactory             16.51
 7     12/03/1997       Satisfactory            Satisfactory             25.65
 8     04/20/1998       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory            33.15
 9     02/26/1999       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory            42.85
 10    03/31/1999       Satisfactory            Satisfactory             42.16
 11    11/30/1999       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory            45.28
 12    04/14/2000       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory            46.90
 13    06/30/2000       Satisfactory            Satisfactory             48.02
 14    12/27/2000       Satisfactory            Satisfactory             51.67
 15    04/02/2001       Satisfactory            Satisfactory             52.97
 16    10/10/2001       Satisfactory            Satisfactory             56.10
 17    12/18/2001      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory            56.54
 18    06/28/2002      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory            64.94
 19    12/27/2002      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory            64.58
 20    01/15/2003      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory            64.65
 21    06/11/2003       Satisfactory            Satisfactory             64.84
 22    12/30/2003       Satisfactory            Satisfactory             65.63
 23    06/29/2004       Satisfactory            Satisfactory             67.38
 24    12/28/2004       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory            72.26
 25    06/24/2005   Moderately Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory            77.68
 26    12/29/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory      78.22
 27    07/16/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory      82.07
                         Moderately              Moderately
 28    10/10/2006                                                        82.15
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
 29    04/23/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory      82.39
 30    11/09/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory      82.56
 31    06/06/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory      82.98
                         Moderately              Moderately
 32    02/08/2009                                                        83.59
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
 33    06/25/2009      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory            83.74
 34    12/12/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory      85.85
 35    06/29/2010   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory      86.05
                                                 Moderately
 36    01/01/2011   Moderately Satisfactory                              86.47
                                               Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately
 37    06/29/2011                              Unsatisfactory            86.48
                       Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 08/30/1995               S      U            0.00   Initial PPF advances
                                                     Minor technical amendment to
 09/27/1996               S       S          12.04
                                                     LA
                                                     LA amendment - adjustments to
 07/23/1997               S       S          21.94   threshold limits for non-ICB
                                                     Procurements for the NPAF.
                                                     LA amendment - adding
                                                     standard UN-boycott
                                                     provisions, and a new anti-
 01/19/1998               S       S          29.64   corruption provision;
                                                     amendment to the procurement
                                                     schedule related to the NPAF
                                                     sub-loans.
                                                     Extension of Swiss Grant
                                                     closing date until December 31,
 03/05/1999       N       S      U           42.85
                                                     1999. See section 1.6 for
                                                     details.
                                                     LA amendment - New Swiss
                                                     Grant Agreement; participating
                                                     financial intermediaries;
 01/25/2000               S      U           45.63
                                                     definitional changes of
                                                     investment project, direct (sub-)
                                                     borrower and sub-loan (NPAF).
                                                     LA amendment – definitions of
 08/07/2002       N       U      U           64.94   NPAF. See section 1.6 for
                                                     details.
                                                     LA amendment – Addition of
 08/13/2003               S       S          65.00
                                                     Roshydromet project
                                                     LA amendment – definitional
                                                     changes for Bureau of
 03/31/2004               S       S          66.11   Economic analysis; reallocation
                                                     of proceeds among
                                                     disbursement categories
                                                     LA amendment – definitional
                                                     change of investment project
 01/20/2006               MS    MS           78.22   and final borrower (NPAF);
                                                     reallocation of proceeds among
                                                     disbursement categories.
                                                     LA amendment - definitional
                                                     change of investment project;
 06/28/2007       N       MS    MS           82.39   Swiss Grant thresholds; interest
                                                     rate charges; closing date
                                                     changed to December 31, 2009.
                                                     LA amendment – NPAF
 05/14/2008               MS    MS           82.86   Agency Agreement; addition of
                                                     Part F on Past Environmental
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Liabilities (PEL) project
                                                     preparation.
                                                     LA amendment – As of June 25,
                                                     2009, cancelling $20,437,000
                                                     equivalent from Category (1)
 08/19/2009       N       U      U           83.74   sub-loan expenditures for Part
                                                     B(2) addition of
                                                     implementation responsibilities
                                                     for Part F.
                                                     Extension of the closing date
                                                     from December 31, 2009 to
 12/22/2009               MS    MS           85.85
                                                     June 30, 2012 to complete Part
                                                     F of loan.




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Russian Federation Environmental Management Project (EMP) was prepared between 1992 and
1994 to provide support for the Environmental Framework Program (EFP) developed by the Russian
Federation and, specifically, for the newly established Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Natural Resources. The overall objective of the EFP was to incorporate environmental and resource
management concerns into the economic, social and political adjustment process of post Soviet Russia
and raise international financial support for EFP implementation.

The Russian Federation inherited an enormous and costly environmental legacy from decades of
inefficient economic development and neglect of environment and natural resources management. The
industry and energy sectors were responsible for the major sources of air pollution. Similarly, the
ferrous and non-ferrous metal production, chemical manufacturing, petroleum, coal, pulp and paper
industries were responsible for the bulk of hazardous and toxic discharges both as water effluents and as
hazardous wastes.

The economic transition set in motion an ambitious reform agenda including privatization, industrial
restructuring and market liberalization and had substantial impacts on the use of natural resources and
the environment. Establishing an environmental management system with legal and institutional
elements was part of the reform agenda aiming to address the growing concerns of environmental
degradation within the confine of a market based economy. This coincided with the process of
restructuring and adapting to the new economic and political realities. The key environmental issues
that had to be addressed during the economic transition were: (a) unreliability of environmental data,
(b) ineffective legal and regulatory system, (c) poorly defined management and organizational
responsibilities, (d) inadequate budgets, (e) ineffective “command and control? mechanisms to address
industrial pollution coupled with the lack of economic incentives for pollution abatement, (f)
inappropriate discharge and ambient environmental standards, and (g) lack of financial incentives and
resources in companies to invest in pollution control systems.

The EMP was approved by the Board in 1994 and originally scheduled for closure in 2000. Following
multiple government requests the project was extended 4 times (two times for 2 years, one time for 5
years and one time for 1.5 year) and amended 13 times. The project closed on June 30, 2011.

Initially EMP consisted of technical assistance components (Part A) focusing on: (a) institutional and
policy strengthening specifically related to Policy and Regulatory Support and Environmental
Epidemiology, (b) water quality and water resource management, and (c) hazardous waste management.
It also included additional components supporting a loan facility for funding of financially viable, high
priority resource recovery/pollution abatement projects through the National Pollution Abatement
Facility (NPAF) (Part B); support for establishing the Center for Project Preparation and
Implementation (CPPI)2 for EMP and EFP implementation (Part C). Later on the scope of EMP was
extended to include the GEF financed Biodiversity Conservation project (Part D) (1996), Project
Preparation for Roshydromet Modernization and Institutional Strengthening (Part E) (2004), and
Project Preparation on Elimination of Past Environmental Liability in the Russian Federation (Part F)
(2008).




2
 Subsequently referred to as the Center for Preparation and Implementation of International Projects on Technical
Assistance (CPPI).


                                                                                                               1
The original Technical Assistance (TA) components were completed in March 2002 and the CPPI
component was closed in September, 2002. In order to provide for adequate reporting and assessment
of the outcomes of the completed and very complex EMP TA/CPPI components, a Partial ICR was
prepared in July, 2003 covering the activities under these components during the period of 1994-2002.
The draft Partial ICR was sent to the Government of Russia for review in August 2003 (Letter #ECC10-
N-2003-00437), but no formal response was received. Simultaneously, the EMP was restructured
through an Amendment of the Loan Agreement to the effect that the NPAF component remained active
under the auspices of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (MOEDT). The last
restructuring of the EMP in December 2009 provided partial extension for 18 months, for one part of
the Project, namely Part F “Preparation of Project on Elimination of Past Environmental Liabilities in
the Russian Federation?, which remained active until June 30, 2011 under the auspices of Ministry of
Natural Resources and Ecology (MNRE).

This ICR provides an integrated summary of EMP components and activities implemented during the
period 1994-2011 and their evaluation against the Development Objectives specified in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR)3 4.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Russian Federation inherited an enormously costly environmental legacy from decades of
inefficient economic development. Soviet Union policies failed to factor in environment externalities in
the national economic development strategies and investment plans. For the Chernobyl disaster alone,
the cost of environmental mismanagement was estimated at tens of billions of dollars. The cost of
depletion of natural resource and environmental degradation was not studied at the time of project
preparation but is believed to have been significant and comparable to most industrialized countries.
Studies carried out in 2006 using different economic indicators such as adjusted net savings that take
into account depletion of natural capital, show that despite real GDP growth of 6.7 percent, adjusted net
savings were negative (-13.8 percent), largely because of natural resource depletion (World Bank,
World Development Indicators, 2006). The former Soviet Union was not unique in this respect; most
industrialized countries followed a similar development path, although in many cases, they made more
dramatic structural adjustments at an earlier stage of development.

Economic transition in Russia was accompanied by a fluctuating political commitment to incorporate
environmental and natural resource management concerns directly into the economic adjustment
process. Although, there were many gaps and deficient coordination among federal supervisory bodies
in the process, among the drivers of the environment management systems reforms, the following two
are central:




3
  Staff Appraisal Report, Russian Federation Environmental Management Project, October 19, 1994, Report No.
12838 RU.
4
  Provide critical support for the EFP whose objectives are to (a) incorporate environmental and natural resource
management concerns directly into the economic, social and political adjustment process at the federal and
regional levels of government, including the executive and legislative branches; (b) strengthen and streamline
institutional and organizational structures for environmental and natural resource management; (c) improve
environmental and natural resource policy and strategy formulation and implementation; (d) upgrade
environmental and natural resource management systems; (e) strengthen financial delivery mechanisms to address
priority environmental management investment needs through the setting up and initial capitalization of the
NPAF; and (f) facilitate the flow of donor and multilateral funds and resources to the environmental protection
sector. The project would provide critical support to the EFP.


                                                                                                               2
First, in search of new sources of growth and comparative advantage, the use of natural resources such
as forests, lands, oil, gas, minerals, water, and vegetation became much more intensive. Natural
resource-intensive exports expanded to replace old traditional exports. Consequently, the decision-
makers needed to cost existing natural resources used in trade at their full opportunity cost, to avoid
giving a false sense of comparative advantage in the short and medium term and better regulate the use
rates of those resources. Nonetheless, adjustment of environmental policies during Russia‟s economic
transition was lengthy and characterized by frequent and inadequately formulated sector policies. Many
of the reforms during this period implemented at the national level (such as privatization, industrial
restructuring and market liberalization) were not entirely consistent with natural resource and
environmental protection.

Secondly, including environmental concerns in macro-planning required a solution to many
environmental quality and resource management problems. The institutions vested with major
institutional and organizational changes faced the realities, from the beginning, that the depletion and
degradation of the natural capital would be very difficult to correct without appropriate environmental
assessment.

The Environmental Framework Program (EFP)

The EMP was designed to provide support for the Environmental Framework Program (EFP) and to the
newly established Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources. The overall objective
of the EFP was to incorporate environmental and resource management concerns into the economic,
social and political adjustment process of post Soviet Russia and raise international financial support for
EFP implementation.

Increasing numbers of government decision makers in the executive and legislative branches at the
federal, regional and local levels were searching for ways to restructure and reform the economy to
promote efficient and more sustainable economic growth - an impossible goal without taking
environmental quality and natural resource management factors into consideration. Several important
steps were taken in this regard. However, much more was required at all levels of the legislative and
executive government; otherwise the initial momentum would be lost, along with the enormous
opportunities that existed for influencing the reform process. The Environmental Framework Program
(EFP) and the Environmental Management Project were designed to help the Government of Russia to
meet this urgent need and to take advantage of these opportunities.

The implementation of the reform of system of environmental management was fragmented and poorly
coordinated among the more than ten government agencies having some responsibility to address
environmental concerns. The long-standing problem was that implementing ministries and overseeing
government bodies had built-in conflicts of interest in responsibilities for both economic targets and
environmental protection. At that time, several reorganization attempts of the Union-Republican State
Environmental Protection Committee (Goskompriroda)5 to better integrate environmental management
under the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources (MEPNR) failed to achieve the
reorganization objectives. This was mainly due to the legacy system of centralized management that
emphasized production over efficiency; concentrated pollution-intensive industries in enormous
complexes, compartmentalized decision making, and treated natural resources as free goods.


5
 In 1988 the Union-Republican State Environmental Protection Committee (Goskompriroda) was established
with a mandate to strengthen direct regulation and enforcement of environmental norms and standards and to
coordinate the work of ministries and committees responsible for environmental management and nature
protection.


                                                                                                         3
The failure of the previous, centrally planned Soviet system to efficiently and effectively manage
regional economic development and environmental issues was implicitly recognized in the Russian
Federal Treaty of March 14, 1992,6 that formally devolved much of the former powers and resources of
the central ministries and committees to regional and local level agencies. The trend toward
decentralization had major implications for solving environmental and natural resource management
problems. These changes, while creating much uncertainty and confusion, also presented unprecedented
opportunities for providing strategically targeted support and assistance based on sound economic,
social, environmental, and natural resource management principles. The EFP and the Environmental
Management Project (EMP) were designed to support these changes.

Rationale for Bank assistance

Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussions were held in Russia on April 28, 1994. The EMP
project was part of the CAS core lending program. The EMP was one of the projects that were
considered relatively unaffected by changes in the macroeconomic environment. It met three of the
priority objectives of the CAS by: (i) supporting the development of a market-oriented economy by
demonstrating through the NPAF how to involve private sector in projects with tangible environmental
benefits; (ii) redirecting public sector involvement in the economy by strengthening the policy-making
and regulatory activities of key institutions involved in environmental management, and establishing a
sound technical and policy framework for future environmental activities; and (iii) establishing a key
role for the Bank in project design and helping to mobilize donor funds that might not otherwise be
available to support priority activities in environmental management. The GOR and Bank recognized
the vital importance of bilateral and multilateral grant funds in support of the environmental sector
(including biodiversity conservation and sustainable management of natural resources) at this critical
stage in Russia's economic transformation. A donor meeting hosted by the Bank on April 13, 1994,
resulted in potential support for the EFP in the amount to $90 million from Canada, the European Union,
Finland, Norway, Switzerland, the United States and the GEF.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The PDO7 of the Environmental Management Project (EMP) was to provide critical support to the
Environmental Framework Program (EFP) whose major objectives were to incorporate environmental
and natural resources management concerns directly into the economic, social and political adjustment
process, and strengthen financial delivery mechanism.

The specific objectives of the EMP were to assist the Russian authorities to: (i) strengthen and
streamline federal and regional institutional structures for environmental and natural resource
management; (ii) improve federal and regional environment policy and strategy formulation and
implementation; (iii) upgrade environmental and natural resource management systems; (iv) address
priority environmental management investment needs through the setting up of initial capitalization of
the National Pollution Abatement Facility; (v) assist in the financing of economically viable, high
priority resource recovery/pollution abatement projects in the country; and (vi) facilitate the flow of
donor funds and resources to the environmental protection sector.




6
  Treaty of Delimitation of Objects of Jurisdiction and Powers between the Federal Bodies of the State Authority
of the Russian Federation and Bodies of Authority of the Republics within the Russian Federation.
7
  The SAR refers to framework program objectives.


                                                                                                              4
To monitor progress and objective achievement - the SAR presented a set of key performance
indicators (Table 4.4, page 64) and is reproduced, with results, as Table A2.1 in Annex 2 of this
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Although there were no formal revisions of Project Development Objectives, the project scope evolved
during implementation as circumstances changed. For instance, the TA program witnessed significant
shift of effort and emphasis away from the national level to more focused TA to regional and local level
particularly after the mid-term review in 1999. Similarly, there was a shift away from policy oriented
TA to more practical approaches to address environmental issues and regulatory enforcement, and a
general reduction in the utilization of foreign, as opposed to local expertise. This helped to some extent
to simply maintain a functioning cadre of environmental expertise within the national management
system during the life of the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries identified at appraisal were the Ministry of Environment Protection and
Natural Resources (MEPNR), Ministry of Finance (MOF), Regional Governments in the Urals, Upper
Volga and North Caucasus; and private and state enterprises.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The EMP Technical Assistance component (Part A) consisted of the following four8 parts:

(a) Policy and Regulatory Support Component (US$ 15.24 million);
(b) Environmental Epidemiology (US$ 6.68 million);
(c) Water Quality and Water Resource Management component (US$ 8.79 million), and
(d) Hazardous Waste Management component (US$ 6.86 million).

Within the context of the originally envisioned EFP program, of which EMP formed the core technical
assistance element, selection of these four core components were assessed as appropriate and consistent
with the project objectives. The Policy and Regulatory Component set an umbrella framework for
national and regional change. The linkage of policy with environmental health in the second component
reflected the focus on public health as part of the environmental policy reform. The component focused
on water and hazardous waste represents a high priority area with significant unattended environmental
issues that both the Government and Bank identified for institutional and technical support and
leveraging broader international support for investments. The Center for Preparation and
Implementation of International Projects on Technical Assistance (the Center for Project Preparation
and Implementation (CPPI)) was designed as a vehicle to build implementation capacity to manage the
EMP and coordinate donor funding of EFP.

Policy and Regulatory Support: This component was strongly supported by the Federal Environmental
Commission (FEC) responsible on behalf of the Government (Council of Ministers) for high level



8
 In the SAR the Policy and Regulatory Component and Environmental Epidemiology Components were
nominally combined but in fact were defined and implemented separately.


                                                                                                        5
interagency coordination on environmental issues on behalf of the Government (Council of Ministers).
The two tiers functional organization of FEC included (i) the Federal Policy Unit (FPU) within the
Commission, which acted as the policy development and strategic planning resource, and (ii) the
Regional Environmental Policy Units (REPU). FPU was responsible for the following: (i) preparing
assessments of environmental damage and health impacts; (ii) implementing legal and institutional
changes; (iii) integrating environmental policy initiatives across government agencies; (iv) preparing
specific Sectoral Environmental Action Plans (SEAPs); (v) updating the National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP); and (vi) supporting regional units including TA to the National Pollution
Abatement Facility (NPAF). The REPUs were to be formed in two pilot regions, the Upper Volga and
the Urals, tasked to develop Regional Environmental Action Plans (REAPs) and support
implementation of new federal policies for addressing environmental damage.

Environmental Epidemiology: This component focused on the strengthening of existing national and
regional environmental epidemiological management system, by supporting upgradation of data quality,
methods of data collection and integration of environmental health information in the environmental
policy decision making. The component aimed to identify the most urgent problems and develop
policies to monitor their implementation. The Federal Environmental Epidemiological Center, with
regional centers in the Upper Volga and Urals were central for improving the priority-setting at the
regional level and data collection, and analytical capacity through training courses focusing on policy
development.

Water Quality and Water Resource Management: This component intended to support water quality
improvements in three pilot regions - the Upper Volga, Urals and North Caucasus. Specifically, it
aimed to improve the effectiveness of water resources management plans, infrastructure, and
institutional capacity. The component also aimed to pilot economic instruments and regulatory
arrangements, based on OECD country experience, and thereby to expand the pipeline of investment
projects in the sector. The TA was directed at improving of water management system of responsible
agencies of MEPNR at both the federal and regional level. The federal level would be responsible for
policy development and dissemination of the results from pilot regions elsewhere. At the regional level
the project aimed to support specific planning studies and their implementation. The mixture of tasks
among the regional sub-components provided basic coverage of priority water management issues.

Hazardous Waste Management component: This component focused on strategic planning capacity at
the national level and introducing the application of basic regulatory tools at regional level. It provided
targeted technical assistance following good practice models for “command and control? regulation
which even nowadays remains generally accepted in most developed countries. The technical assistance
targeted the designated institute under MEPNR responsible for policy and legislative development in
waste management. At the regional level, the development of the “care and custody? regulatory system
was to be implemented in cooperating oblasts in the Upper Volga. TA envisaged also upgrading of
laboratory equipment in the respective environment committees.

National Pollution Abatement Facility (NPAF) (Part B): NPAF component was designed to support
the Government of Russia as a financial delivery mechanism for addressing priority environmental
management investments under the Environmental Framework Program (EFP). This included initial
capitalization of the National Pollution Abatement Facility with US$55million from IBRD Loan and
leveraging donor and multilateral funds for environmental protection. The fund instrument was
developed to address energy and natural resources price distortions under the centrally planned
economy and a lack of incentives to reduce pollution and improve the quality of air, water and soil. The
mandate of NPAF was to cover a portion of project investment costs of priority commercially viable
resource-recovery and pollution abatement investments. The NPAF had to serve as a mechanism to



                                                                                                         6
effectively on-lend funds from the loan and other donors to individual sub-projects. NPAF was
authorized to lend to state owned enterprises, local or foreign private entities, and joint ventures.

Investment priorities were to be established based upon the existing level of environmental degradation
or threats to human health (air and water pollution, soil contamination) caused by industrial discharges.
The premise was that environmental degradation and human health risks would be reversed by
investing in pollution abatement and control measures to reduce harmful discharges in the environment
or to recover waste streams. The project also aimed to support financially viable “win-win? investments.
NPAF operated as a revolving fund whereby revenues from sub-loan repayments would sustain NPAF
operations on the premise that there was sufficient demand for financing of “win-win? industrial
investments. NPAF would also be allowed to sell or syndicate all or part of its existing loans to
commercial banks on a non-recourse basis, thereby reducing the Governments‟ exposure to commercial
risk. The proceeds of all loan sales were to be re-deposited in the NPAF to finance additional sub-loans9.
The NPAF was designed to provide the institutional framework for the GEF ODS Phase-out Program
although GEF grant resources to support these sub-projects were to remain independent of the NPAF‟s
main activities.

An especially established legal entity entitled “Executive Directorate of the National Pollution
Abatement Facility? or “NPAF ED? would be responsible to implement sub-loans on behalf of MOF.
NPAF employed a consultant team under the CPPI to appraise and supervise investment projects. The
oversight of NPAF was carried by a Supervisory Board (SB) comprising high level government
officials, responsible for review and approval of investment proposals. The Ministry of Finance (MOF)
was the lender of record, with responsibility to make decisions related to investment projects approved
by the NPAF SB. The MOF was to establish a dedicated revolving account into which all debt service
payments were to be deposited.

CPPI Component (Part C): The CPPI component was designed to provide EMP the necessary TA for
Project implementation capacity through a PIU administering the loan on behalf of MEPNR. A foreign
General Consultant (GC), with a full time resident project manager and international advisor for each
TA component were to provide both project management and technical guidance on EMP
implementation. A local consultant with experience in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures
ensured administrative capacity. CPPI itself was created in advance of project implementation as a non-
profit legal entity under MEPNR and the aegis of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural
Resources. According to the matrix organizational structure of CPPI, it was responsible to administer
the EMP components under the guidance of multi-agency supervisory committees. At the same time
CPPI maintained direct relationships with primary counterpart agencies, or in the case of the Policy and
Regulatory Support Component, with FEC.

1.6 Revised Components

Technical Assistance component



9
  At the time of appraisal the revolving fund was designed in compliance with the Russian Budget Code. Some
years later Russian public finance system went through a major consolidation. As a result all extra budgetary
accounts had to be brought in compliance with the Budget Code. This directly affected the functioning of NPAF
account after loan closure. As of September 2011, the EMP loan was repaid in full. According to the terms and
conditions of the General Conditions Applicable to loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loan
dated February 9, 1993, Section 12.05, all obligations of the Borrower in relation to the Loan Agreement
terminate.


                                                                                                           7
Policy and Regulatory Support sub-component: This sub-component was progressively revised due to
the ineffectiveness of the client at the federal level and the lack of an inter-agency champion. As a
result, part of the component was moved to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade.
Activities were adjusted to refocus on regional initiatives and specific priorities supported by the
MEPNR, such as development of environmental indicators, support to Russia‟s participation in global
environmental treaties, and the development of a regulatory framework for introduction of
environmental taxes.

Environmental Epidemiology sub-component: The sub-component was redesigned to eliminate the
objective to create a Federal Environmental Epidemiological Center under the existing Federal Center
of State Sanitary and Epidemiology Surveillance and expand the expertise and knowledge base.

Water Quality and Water Resource Management sub-component: There was no major revision in the
course of this sub-component‟s implementation.

Hazardous Waste Management sub-component: The sub-component‟s implementation arrangements
were modified in to include MEPNR as the national counterpart instead of the originally designated
Ministry‟s institute which became independent. Furthermore, Sverdlovsk Oblast Environmental
Committee was assigned implementation responsibility for development of the regulatory system for
Sverdlovsk Oblast in the Urals, substituting the Upper Volga. The latter failed to follow through with
committed counterpart support. These revisions were deemed as timely and appropriate and grounded
to evolving institutional realities.

Two additional sub-components or programs emerged in the course of project implementation. This
includes (a) Krasnoyarsk Emergency Forestry Pest Management Program, and (b) new initiatives.

      a) Krasnoyarsk Emergency Forestry Pest Management Program was requested as an urgent
         assistance10 from the Bank to implement the Emergency Forestry Pest Management Program in
         Krasnoyarsk. US$ 5 million of EMP‟s unallocated resources were allocated in September 1996,
         to mitigate the consequences of Siberian silkworm outbreak by applying environmentally safe
         chemical and biological agents through aerial spraying. The objective to minimize negative
         impacts of the infestation was met. The experience gained during implementation triggered the
         interest of the Federal Forestry Service for preparation of the Russia Sustainable Forestry Pilot
         Project financed by IBRD loan.

      b) In January 2001, EMP TA work program was nearly completed. The Ministry of Economic
         Development and Trade (MOEDT) and MNR requested the Bank to use the balance of the TA
         resources to fund four new initiatives: (i) Regional Environmental Support Program; (ii)
         Integration of Environment in Strategic Planning and Economic Decisions; (iii) Global
         Development Initiative Support Program, and (iv) NPAF Support and EMP Results
         dissemination. Regardless of the support of MOF and MNR the work on these initiatives was
         terminated in February-March 2002 when EMP TA components were closed. Nevertheless,
         several outputs were delivered which are worth noting. The Rostov Environmental Support
         Program was developed under initiative (i). Initiative (ii) supported the development of
         environmental and economic indicators and a methodology for valuation of environmental
         damages and natural resources. Initiative (iii) supported assistance for Russia‟s joining the
         Stockholm Convention, and Russia‟s preparation for the Johannesburg Earth Summit.



10
     Request from Ministry of Finance in 1996 signed by Deputy Minister Mr. Kasyanov.


                                                                                                        8
NPAF component

Although the overall objectives for the NPAF component did not change throughout the history of the
project, it underwent two major restructurings.

The first restructuring was undertaken in 2000 as a result of the Mid-Term Review (1999) with an
objective to allow for new on-lending schemes. The collapse of the banking sector in 1998 resulted in
failure of commercial banks to initiate and manage “win-win? environmental investments in industries.
The GORF decided to channel loan proceeds directly through the Ministry of Finance to the sub-
borrower. In addition, the hypothesis that a wide variety of cost-effective environmental investment
opportunities existed to materialize as “win-win? projects proved to be too narrow and optimistic for
Russia‟s economy in transition. In the absence of market based incentives the demand for “win-win?
investments was insignificant due to the following: (a) the financial viability of many potential sub-
borrowers declined, shifting enterprise priorities from pollution control to economic survival; (b) weak
enforcement and eroded levels of environmental penalty charges reduced incentives for environmental
investment, and (c) firms perceived the potential financial returns in the form of saved pollution charges
as insignificant11. The restructuring included refocusing of NPAF‟s on-lending modalities and activities
as follows:

    On-lending through Regional Governments (Subjects of Federation, such as Oblasts), for high
     priority, environmental investment projects in enterprises;

    On-lending through Commercial Banks to financially viable enterprises for “win-win?
     environmental investment projects, and option that could be activated only once viable commercial
     banks were accredited by MOF;

    Urgent Environmental Public Investments to reduce imminent threats to human health and the
     environment; and

    Continued implementation of already approved subprojects12.

The second restructuring in 2002, followed a specific request from the GORF to finance construction
of closed loop waste water treatment system at the Baikalsk Pulp and Paper Mill (BPPM), a priority
project with significant environmental benefits for the fragile ecosystem of the Baikal Lake. The Loan
Agreement was amended to extend the closing date by additional five years in order to complete the
BPPM subproject. The size of the BPPM investment exceeded the threshold of US$ 7 million for sub-
loans. This limit was also waived to accommodate the US$ 25 million needed for this investment. The
second restructuring, also transferred the responsibility for implementation of NPAF component to the
Ministry of Economic Development and Trade which embraced the EMP operation.



11
   NPAF ED was responsible for technical appraisal and implementation support. At the time of the MTR, NPAF
ED had evaluated 47 subproject proposals. The portfolio comprised 13 appraised subprojects. These were
approved by the NPAF Supervisory Board and received no-objections by the World Bank. However, MOF signed
sub-loan agreements with only three subprojects for a total sub-loan amount of about US$15 million. For the other
ten appraised subprojects, concerns such as financial viability of applicant sub-borrowers, outstanding tax-debts of
enterprises, and lack of administrative capacity to manage enterprise sub-loans was key for suspension of the
applications. The MOF stopped signing further sub-loan agreements after 1997. It became clear that direct lending
by MOF was inconsistent with its role as a macro-economic and financial policy maker. In 1998, MOF‟s attempt
to work with NPAF and use commercial banks for on-lending to enterprises was unsuccessful.
12
   At the time of this restructuring only three subprojects had been approved and one was under implementation.


                                                                                                                  9
1.7 Other significant changes

In the last two decades, Russia‟s environmental management system was characterized by frequent and
inadequately formulated changes to its institutional structure and legal and regulatory framework at the
federal, regional, and municipal levels. Principal among these were the changes of 1996, when Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources (MENR) was reorganized and became the State Committee for
Environmental Protection (SCEP). In 2000, SCEP was abolished and its functions transferred to the
Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR). The former MNR management expressed little interest in the
project and NPAF activities. All these uncertainties led to changes in the original project design which
include:

     a) CPPI component restructuring: SCEP abolition in 2000 led to an administrative vacuum at
        the national level and affected CPPI implementation and its counterparts. This resulted in
        CPPI‟s assuming the role as the primary counterpart organization with a direct technical
        supervision role over the delivery of TA under the project. This was a fundamental design
        change that evolved over time. Ultimately, CPPI launched its operations independently from
        the new national environmental authority. This also meant that CPPI was responsible for
        contracting of technical assistance and supervision. Without real oversight from the GORF, this
        situation inevitably created tension about CPPI‟s role among the MOF and MNR.

        Early on in 1996 CPPI underwent structural transformation13. Following SCEP‟s request, the
        Bank agreed CPPI to divide itself into some six new legal entities, each of which with a
        mandate to manage specific TA component activities, NPAF or GEF grants. Flaws during
        CPPI‟s operation raised the concerns of MOF and the World Bank flagged in a number of
        CPPR‟s and Project supervision missions. In 1999 CPPI was downsized and restructured to a
        single legal entity. The EMP Loan was amended to provide specifically for operating costs and
        CPPI staff 14 remuneration under category “incremental recurrent costs?. The last CPPI
        restructuring was undertaken in the second quarter of 2001. As a result CPPI was downsized to
        16 positions, four TA teams were dissolved and instead, four groups of individual consultants
        were selected to implement four new work program priorities supported by MNR and MOEDT.
        Nonetheless, it appeared that new MNR management, appointed in mid-2001, did not support
        CPPI as an institution because MNR did not consider it as an entity directly accountable to
        MNR, instead of reporting to a multi-agency supervisory board. Ultimately, MNR suspended
        CPPI‟s operations which effectively terminated EMP‟s TA activities.

     b) Additional EMP Components. The GORF requested to include three new components for
        which amendments to the Loan Agreement were executed in 1996, 2004 and 2008 respectively.

        -The GEF financed Biodiversity Conservation project15 (Part D) aimed to assist the Russian
        Federation to protect and manage its globally significant biological diversity in accordance with




13
   CPPI was established as a relatively small organization supervising consultants (firms and individual
consultants for delivering TA. EMP included four TA components and NPAF, with geographic coverage of 10
cities in 3 regions; CPPI provided administrative support for preparation and implementation of GEF projects
CPPI followed the reporting requirements of MOF; tax authorities and the Bank. By 1996, CPPI grew up and had
over 200 employees all of them, including CPPI Director, funded from the consulting category of the loan.
14
   CPPI had about 60 positions divided into administrative and functional units.
15
   The total cost of the project was US$26.0 million equivalent of which GEF grant of US$20.1 million equivalent,
and Government contribution of US$ 4.8 million equivalent. The Swiss Government provided a parallel grant of


                                                                                                             10
        the principles of environmentally sustainable development throughout the economic transition.
        Central to the project were enhanced protection of biodiversity, within and outside protected
        areas, in conformance with the Government‟s obligations under the Convention on Biological
        Diversity16. Project objectives included: i) supporting the development of federal and regional
        biodiversity strategies; ii) developing and implementing mechanisms and approaches for
        mainstreaming biodiversity conservation and environmental protection into policy making; iii)
        assessing the protected area institutional and operational framework and subsequently
        strengthening its effectiveness; iv) enabling participation of all interested stakeholders,
        including indigenous peoples and local communities, in biodiversity conservation; and v)
        demonstration of inter-regional and cross-sectoral approaches to biodiversity conservation and
        sustainable natural resource management. The GEF Biodiversity Conservation project has a
        separate ICR (Report No. 28177)17 where additional details on implementation assessment are
        provided.

        -Project Preparation for Roshydromet Modernization and Institutional Strengthening
        (Part E) aimed to provide technical assistance and support the incremental costs relating to
        management of technical assistance activities for high-priority activities within Roshydromet
        and in line with the Borrower‟s institutional development objectives for modernizing
        hydrometeorology, environmental protection and monitoring.

        -Project Preparation for Elimination of Past Environmental Liability in the Russian
        Federation (Part F): supported technical assistance activities and operational expenses of the
        NPAF Executive Directorate for the preparation of MNRE priorities to address past
        environmental damages and associated liabilities.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The overall quality at entry, measured by current standards for development outcomes and country
specific developments in retrospective, should be considered unsatisfactory. Both the Government
and the Bank overestimated the capacity of the country to receive and sustain a large environmental TA
that required consistent long-term government support at a high level. Similarly, it is also clear that the
demand from the Borrower for the project‟s activities was limited. Judging by multiple restructurings
and reorganization of implementation arrangements and project counterpart agencies, the design proved
to be deficient as well.

That said, it is understood that the project design was consistent with the understanding and
expectations of the Borrower and the Bank at the time the project definition. On that basis, one could
argue that Project quality at entry was marginally unsatisfactory, despite inflated expectations that it
would be able to affect policy and institutional change. However, given the size of environmental
mismanagement in Russia it was unrealistic to expect measurable near term environmental
damage reduction through a portfolio of subprojects funded by NPAF. The project was consistent with


US$1.1 million equivalent for support to public education programs. The project kept separate accounts from the
EMP.
16
   The Convention was opened for signature at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro on 5 June 1992 and entered
into force on 29 December 1993.
17
   http://imagebank.worldbank.org/servlet/WDS_IBank_Servlet?pcont=details&menuPK=64154159&searchMenu
PK=4209226&theSitePK=501889&eid=000012009_20040402124138&siteName=IMAGEBANK.


                                                                                                            11
country strategy and the CAS; it aimed at integrating environmental protection into the transition
process and having the resulting policy, regulatory and economic instruments act as a driver for
investment, primarily in the private sector. A high level of government support appeared to exist for at
entry which did not sustain through the life of the project.

The project took into account previous experience with pollution abatement projects in Indonesia, Chile
and Poland. Recommendations incorporated into the design, according to the SAR, were: that limited
absorptive capacity may exist in the federal Ministry of Environment; responsibility for environmental
and natural resource management may be dispersed across a number of government ministries and
agencies; confusion and frustration may result from uncoordinated donor and multilateral agency
support programs; full commitment to the program by the beneficiaries is needed; strengthening of
project implementation capacity prior to the loan avoids later delays; effective supervision and strong
support by Bank's Resident Mission is desirable; and a well-designed monitoring and evaluation system
to provide early warning of implementation delays. Lessons were also drawn from the first Russia Oil
Rehabilitation Project and other operations in Russia.

The project attempted to address as many development issues in the sector as possible. This led to
project complexity of unreasonable scale. Reality proved that even abridged EMP project which
included four TA components and NPAF credit line to be implemented in a dozen of regions was far
too challenging for implementation both for the client and the Bank. Better results could have been
reached if project activities would have been focused on fewer interventions and less complex
implementation structure.

Project risks were identified in the SAR along with mitigation options (pages 69-70). Most of the major
risks were realized with many countermeasures failing to compensate for the magnitude of Government
changes and level of economic instability during crisis periods. Despite continuous efforts to contain
these situations – most measures proved to only be short-term fixes that were not sustainable under the
political and economic development during the life of the Project.

The EMP Technical Assistance component (Part A)

Policy and Regulatory Support: The design of this policy component was overly ambitious for Russia at
a time when its own institutional environment was so rapidly evolving. The basic premise that a high
level governmental champion at the national level would support this component appears to have been
misplaced from the outset, and, in light of the overall evolution of the environmental institutional
structure, was not sustainable in any event. The federal Environmental Commission never became
functional during the life of the project. The Federal policy unit‟s main client, the Ministry of
Environmental Protection and Natural Resources (MEPNR) was progressively downgraded and
eventually eliminated as a Federal Environmental Agency and its remaining parts were incorporated
into the Ministry of Natural Resources. The planned staffing of the Federal and Regional Policy units to
consist largely of environmental lawyers was unrealistic at the outset, as was the expectation that
foreign technical assistance in this area could be effective in the Russian legal system. As a
consequence, work under this component was refocused first on the development of specific
environmental plans and strategies at the federal and regional level, and subsequently, on regional
initiatives and priorities where client interest was greater.

Environmental Epidemiology: On the premise that EMP design builds on the linkage between
environmental policy and public health, the component objectives were realistic and appropriate, and
activities identified to do this were realistically scaled and consistent with the objectives. The design
also assured at least a level of in-kind counterpart contribution of resources would be provided,
particularly for the envisioned Federal Center. However, the design did not offer a clear mechanism for


                                                                                                      12
integration of these results into public policy and action, either at the level of institutional clients or in
the project‟s implementation structure.

Water Quality and Water Resource Management: The original concept this component‟s design was
progressive. It nominally provided for seamless integration of TA results into policy and regulatory
management in the sector, and targeted assistance on priority issues on a scale and level that was
realistic and supported the dissemination of these results on a national basis.

Hazardous Waste Management: While in principal the design was appropriate for achieving the
objectives, its basic weakness lies in the delivery arrangements into the mainstream environmental
agencies, which was not direct or adequately tested initially.

NPAF Component (Part B)

NPAF component was designed as a financial delivery mechanism for priority environmental
investments in line with the original “win-win? concept. Project definition for eligibility evolved
including the selection criteria for priority investments which were revised considerably thus
compromising on the original “win-win? concept. In short, the uncertainties and ever evolving
implementation framework opened opportunities to offer any project that in some way can be
considered “environmental? for NPAF‟s consideration. The procurement procedures used by NPAF
did not accept commercial procurement practice which in the local context acted as a deterrent for
delivering subproject results on schedule. Overall, the NPAF design could have benefitted from more
streamlined on-lending arrangements at the outset as well as from adjustments to simplify the overly
complicated appraisal process during project restructurings.

CPPI Component (Part C)

While the basic CPPI design as an instrument for delivery of TA was theoretically sound, assuming
relatively mature and stable institutionally mature and well-established counterparts, in fact neither was
the case. The design had a number of flaws: (i) the original staffing plan (11 positions) was inadequate
to cope with the workload; (ii) all CPPI staff were initially consultants and were not formally under
direct client‟s scrutiny; (iii) the sources of CPPI funding and definition of operating expenses were
unclear. It was also unrealistic to expect the necessary local administrative and coordination capability
to be developed quickly enough to effectively manage numerous and complex consultancy assignments
particularly under the pressure imposed by the government and Bank for rapid implementation of the
work.

The GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project (Part D)

The project was one of the earliest GEF projects in Russia, and its preparation was challenging for both
the Bank and the Recipient. There was a need for the government to establish a number of new nation-
wide operational policies, in particular, those related to channeling grant proceeds to numerous
protected areas and other project beneficiaries in the regions. For all these reasons, the project start up
was relatively slow and required extensive input from the Bank. According to the ICR (Report No.
28177) the project was not subject to quality at entry review. The review for the quality of supervision
commented that the project was well prepared and had a straightforward design. For the purpose of the
ICR, the GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project was rated satisfactory for quality at entry.

Overall, the EMP design and implementation structure envisioned at entry are judged as being
unsatisfactory. It should have been recognized from the start that it might not be good to create an
organization that was not properly integrated with the government (e.g. CPPI). The overall design also


                                                                                                           13
did not take into account the limitations of local capacity in administrating a Bank loan, particularly
with the large amount of international and local contracting and disbursement involved, all of which
had to be accomplished with the confines of an uncertain and changing Russian public sector
administrative and taxation system. The NPAF design followed some good international models for
financing pollution abatement. However, given the political, social, and economic upheavals of the
time, a more limited or pilot instrument with predefined portfolio of projects might have been more
effective.

In terms of compliance with Bank‟s safeguard policies, the project quality at entry could be judged
satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

TA and CPPI Components

Factors affecting project implementation. A significant factor affecting implementation that was
outside the control of the government and the implementing agency was the Russian financial crisis
in 1998 which led to dramatic suspension of many TA initiatives. In contrast, the factor that was
generally subject to government control was the decline in government commitment to environmental
policy and institutional reform over the life of the project. This effectively eroded the basic rationale for
the project and changed or eliminated client agencies for EMP TA designated to implement and sustain
the results.

The fact that there was no workable arrangements at the level of client agencies to ensure material
government contribution to the EMP TA activities, and most importantly to providing resources to
client agencies so that they could utilize and implement the TA products caused implementation
problems later on. This was particularly true at the national level where no stable or sustaining
counterpart capability was ultimately available to receive the results. On the positive side, the fact that
regional administrations and local federal agencies made best efforts in this regard, turned out to be
practical for some utilization of TA products.

An additional factor affecting implementation was the complexity and variability of government
financial management requirements governing disbursement and taxation that applied to the project and
which added extra implementation time. As a result PIU‟s ability to continue many technical assistance
contracts was undermined before they had fully delivered planned results. Prompt government action to
address these issues would have significantly improved the effectiveness of TA activities.

A final factor that undermined the project efficiency was the mixed response of the client organizations
to capitalize the expertise developed by the project by utilizing it in implementation. For example,
positive results has occurred where people involved in the project moved back into client organizations
and assumed responsibility for implementation as in the case for the Urals water and epidemiology sub-
components. With respect to the hazardous waste sub-component client organizations did not employ
project expertise which affected the implementation efficiency.

Factors related to implementing agency’s control: The principal factor affecting project outcomes
within the control of the implementing agency, represented by MNR and its predecessors, as well as
CPPI itself was the quality and consistency of supervision. From the outset, the directions provided
by MNR for selection of staff and preparation of detailed work plans for the TA sub-components were
limited. Progressively declining commitment of the government to environmental management affected
both policy and institutional development, thus transforming these directions into symbolic form. This



                                                                                                          14
situation left CPPI and its management effectively acting as the implementing agency, a role that it was
both ill equipped to play in terms of mandate and functional organization.

Cost and financing: The overall project cost was consistent with the original estimates although the
detailed allocation of loan resources between components was revised periodically, in part to
accommodate the increasing complexity of project administration and to align resources among
disbursements categories. The main reallocation was generally from the TA component budgets to
CPPI. Savings were incurred in the TA components mainly due to less than planned expenditure on
foreign technical assistance and broader employment of local experts. Reductions in originally
contemplated foreign consultancies, quality and delivery deficiencies and suspension resulting from tax
and disbursement problems reduced the TA component costs. As noted above, the originally
contemplated government contribution did not materialize which restricted the ability to effectively
transfer and implement TA products.

The scheduled performance of the project was unsatisfactory with significant delays and associated
extensions. The project preparation advance had nominal impact on the client‟s implementation
capacity. In addition, CPPI significantly delayed the staffing and organizational readiness, including
hiring the General Consultant and local procurement consultants. Considerable delay occurred between
September 1998 and March 1999 when project activities were basically suspended by MOF due to
inappropriate changes in implementation arrangements. Another delay occurred in the second half of
2000 after replacement of main implementation agency and by effectively terminating TA work during
the replacement of senior MNR management in the second half of 2001.

NPAF

Three distinct periods of NPAF‟s long implementation history were identified during the assessment:

1. 1994-2002: NPAF was established through a Resolution No. 808 of August 11, 1995 of the Russian
Government which stipulates the responsibilities of MOF, MEPNR, CPPI and NPAF Supervisory
Board, responsible for the overall coordination and monitoring of NPAF; criteria and procedures for
selection and pre-appraisal of subprojects (Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement) and building the initial
portfolio of NPAF projects. Russian financial crisis in 1998 led to collapse of many appraised NPAF
projects. Consequently, with a view to reducing the risks for the federal budget, the MOF made a
decision to involve major Russian banks with government shares as financial intermediaries in NPAF
implementation which led to project restructuring following the Mid-Term Review in 2002. This
included development of new on-lending options for building a new portfolio; introduction of new on-
lending modalities, “softening? eligibility criteria for selection of NPAF investments. NPAF new on-
lending options included:

    a) Sub-loans from MOF to oblasts used to develop a portfolio of seven subprojects in Yaroslavl
    oblast. Later on this portfolio was cancelled due to deterioration of oblast‟s finances;

    b) Financial intermediation used to develop a portfolio of subprojects for pulp and paper mills
    (e.g., Arkhangelsk, Solombala, Kotlas, Baikalsk and Pitkyaranta), subprojects for Ostashkov
    Tannery and “Secondary Metals and Alloys? factory. Agreements for Baikalsk and Pitkyaranta
    subprojects were signed but later on cancelled due to inadequate attention to project environmental
    impacts;

    c) Urgent environmental investments were allocated for a subproject for rehabilitation of the
    Krasnodar Dam. This subproject was dropped after withdrawal of the government‟s financial
    support.


                                                                                                      15
2. 2003 -2005: Several subproject were launched mostly in the pulp and paper mills sector. NPAF
committed resources and signed final Loan Agreements for implementation of 3 pulp and paper mills
projects in Arkhangelsk, Kotlas and Solombala. These projects were successfully completed in 2006-
2007. Implementation of the remaining three projects including the largest and most complex project
with Baikalsk pulp and paper mill experienced long delays and led to their cancelation in 2005.

3. 2006- 2009: This period is characterized with NPAF efforts to build a new portfolio after the
cancelation of pulp and paper mills projects. About US$30 million NPAF resources remained
uncommitted and the government decided to utilize these funds for pollution abatement projects. To
make NPAF resources more attractive the government suggested and the Bank agreed to further soften
the on-lending conditions through an additional MOF subsidy. From the potentially big project pipeline
only a few projects reached to implementation. Major contributing factors for this situation are the
complicated on-lending arrangements and ineffective financial intermediation, but mostly the impact of
the 2008 financial crisis which significantly worsened the financial position of sub-borrowers. Only
two medium-size projects (SMA Podolsk and Ostashkov Tannery) were implemented. About US$20.4
million of uncommitted NPAF funds were cancelled.

Factors affecting NPAF operation: A major factor affecting NPAF‟s operation which was outside the
government control was the financial crisis of the Russian banking system in August of 1998, and led
to suspension of all actions regarding bank crediting under the NPAF. Factors within the government
or implementing agency control were those related to NPAF implementation capacity, administrative
decisions and multiple structural reorganizations. For instance the MOF ceased direct lending to
enterprises and the involvement of intermediary banks deepened the operational issues as the sub-loan
processing time18 increased significantly. Increased supervision and measures to reduce risk translated
in additional regulatory requirements (e.g., collateral, procurement, etc.), excessive and burdensome
informational requirements, and delays introduced by an additional institutional layer requiring
agreements between MOF and the intermediary bank (sub-borrower), and between the intermediary
bank and the enterprise (final borrower); which further complicated implementation and acted as an
impediment for effectiveness.

The financial intermediary (FI) 19 Roseximbank also proved to be ineffective. In one case, disagreement
between the Roseximbank and the enterprise (KhabarovskEnergo 20, part of RAO UES) on the final loan
agreement could not be resolved. The RAO‟s dissatisfaction and disagreements about Roseximbank‟s
financial conditions led to withdrawal of RAO‟s loan application.


18
   The subproject of PLASTKARD was an exception where the long implementation time was caused by various
internal reasons on the enterprise side, and was not a result of interactions with the MOF.
19
   The EMP loan was prepared in accordance with BP10.00 Investment Lending: Identification to Board
Presentation and its provisions to apply credible professional standards to the design, implementation, and
evaluation of FI. OP 8.30 governing FIL and investment operation which include a credit component came into
force in July 1998. There is no evidence that the provisions of OP8.30 for FI eligibility criteria for FI were applied
retroactively.
20
   The enterprise had a long, positive credit history as a client of 30 major banks in Russia (e.g., Sberbank,
Vneshtorgbank, Alfa Bank, Bank of Moscow, etc.). None of these banks had similar lending requirements.
Approximately RUR 500,000 was spent for assessing equipment to be used as collateral. The necessary
information was given to Roseximbank between October and December, 2005. Nonetheless, Roseximbank
neither identified the list of equipment for collateral, nor set an interest rate for the sub-loan. Later on, the
equipment was considered old and non- qualifying as pledge according to MOF guidelines. Although there were
legitimate alternative options which Roseximbank could have explored, frustrated with all these issues, the
enterprise withdrew its loan application.


                                                                                                                  16
Of the nine investment sub-projects agreed for preparation and appraisal, five21 remained active and
four were dropped, either because of enterprise withdrawal or because of concerns about enterprise
eligibility or financial viability. The remaining three22 sub-projects were unable to disburse funds prior
to loan closure.

Chief among the technical reasons which impacted the performance of NPAF ED and Roseximbank
were slow processing and disbursement, complex on-lending arrangements, unprepared final borrowers,
difficulties with preparation of feasibility studies, and the lack of understanding of Bank procurement
procedures. Furthermore, the selection of Roseximbank, as a financial intermediary, proved to be a poor
choice.

Uneven relationships with the implementing agencies represented by MNR, MEDT, and NPAF ED, as
a result of multiple administrative reorganizations23, affected the quality and consistency of supervision
of NPAF portfolio. Problems ranged from poor communication with environmental agencies
concerning preparation of EIAs, to unwillingness of MNR to provide methodological guidance on
environmental impact assessment of investment projects. Subsequently, this reduced NPAF‟s potential
to expand the experience of mainstreaming EIA in investment cycle, in the federal environmental
services. Lengthy introduction of the new schemes for budget crediting and budgetary accounting of
NPAF funds resulted in significant implementation delays. Legal uncertainties regarding the
responsibilities of CPPI and NPAF ED in the investment cycle, lingered for long time. In the absence of
Agency Agreement between MOF and NPAF ED which was signed only in August, 2002, after the
restructuring of NPAF and completion of CPPI activities, NPAF operations remained largely inefficient.

Financing of NPAF operations

The original NPAF financing included IBRD loan proceeds (LA #38060-RU), Swiss Grant (TF 03810
and TF 020217), and federal budget contributions. Initially, pre-investment environmental studies for
NPAF portfolio projects were financed by the grant from the Swiss Agency for Cooperation with the
Eastern Europe (US$3 million). After the grant closure the pre-investment studies were carried out by
the enterprises using own resources. The Amendment to the Loan Agreement from January 2006
strengthened the incentives to preparation of investment proposals and introduced the possibility for
financing 50 percent of the cost of consulting services from the loan and the remaining 50 percent from
the federal budget. NPAF ED operational cost was financed through the loan and budget contributions
in a ratio 50:50.



21
   The five nominally active appraised sub-projects two (CJSC "Ostashkov Tannery", Podolsk Factory of
Secondary Metals and Alloys) were rated as low to medium risk based on their having had signed FLAs in place
and procurement initiated.
22
   LLC “Heat-Pumping Systems?, CJSC “Altaivitaminy?, Pogar Potato Processing Plant. LLC “Heat-Pumping
Systems? project also had a high positive impact and was a technically sound project but could not meet collateral
requirements.
23
    Government‟s Resolution dated August 11, 1995 #808 assigned responsibility for EMP implementation
(including NPAF) to the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MNR, then Goscomecology and MNRE) and
MOF. There is sufficient evidence that only MOF executed its functions in accordance with the Resolution.
However, as the Project was formally initiated and supervised by Goscomecology, the relationship of the MOF to
the NPAF was uneven. The support from Goscomecology did not materialize in full due to its unclear functional
responsibility and multiple reorganizations. After the reorganization which placed Goscomecology under MNR,
the latter withdrew its participation from NPAF management.



                                                                                                               17
The IBRD loan was the basic source for financing of NPAF investment projects. NPAF sub-loans
financed no more than 70 percent of the total investment cost, in a ratio 80:20 from loan and grant
proceeds respectively. Remaining 30 percent of the total investment cost was contribution of the
enterprise implementing the project. The enterprise contribution could include external sources of no
more than 10 percent.

An Amendment to the Loan Agreement in 2007 introduced an additional source of NPAF investment
financing – the NPAF revolving account24. The Amendment aimed to increase the attractiveness of
NPAF investment credits by lowering the total interest. Starting June 2007, the scheme of NPAF
investment projects was also modified to include change in the financing ratios of the 70 percent of the
total investment cost to 40:20:40 from the IBRD loan, Grant and the NPAF revolving account
respectively.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The SAR included a detailed list of specific development objectives that tracked project progress and
performance, and were the focus of Bank supervision missions (Table 4.4, page 64). At the time, this
list was considered sufficiently comprehensive without being overly cumbersome to monitor and
evaluate. On the other hand, while the topical areas largely reflected project components, without
baseline or target values it can be argued that progress was difficult to gauge, or left to subjective
assessment. The final results suggest that the monitoring system did prove useful for implementation,
despite its lack of detail or a baseline (see Table A2.1, Annex 2 Key Performance Indicators in this
ICR). Subsequent reporting requirements in ISRs, beginning around 2006, prompted the team to select
two major indicators to periodically track – one related to NPAF emission reductions and the other on
NPAF on-lending amounts (Section F of the Data Sheet).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The EMP project was consistent with the Bank Operational Directive25 4.01, from October 1991, on
policies and procedures for the environmental assessment of the Bank lending operations and
environmental analysis. The project was assigned “B “rating for EA purposes whereby an
environmental analysis was required although a full EA was not necessary. Annex 4.5 of the SAR
provided details of the guidelines for NPAF funded projects to meet the Bank EA and Government
requirements. The QAG review in 2004 rated safeguard and fiduciary aspects of the project as
satisfactory, despite its short assessment period (2003-04), but according to ISRs thereafter procurement,
financial management and safeguard compliance were, on average, marginally satisfactory thereafter.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Results of TA component
The overall sustainability of the institutional development resulting from EMP TA component is
considered unlikely when assessed against the objectives. This is based on the general absence of
receiving capacity for TA products at the national level of MNR, and its successors, as main designated
client and to a lesser degree at the regional level. This is directly linked to the overall instability of the
government institutional structure at the national level and suboptimal demand for the kind of
institutional strengthening provided by the project. Two other major clients which benefited from EMP



24
     Opened by the NPAF ED according to Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement.
25
     OD/GP 4.01 was replaced by OP/BP 4.01 in 2004.


                                                                                                           18
TA results are Sanitary and Epidemiological Service of the Ministry of Health and MOEDT. It seems
that products provided through various TA activities are likely to be in sustainable use by these
institutions.

At the regional level, there are project results that are likely to be sustained in many cases, notably the
REAP‟s, environmental epidemiology capacity in the Urals and water resources decision support
systems. These were products of more progressive regional administrations that recognized the
importance of environmental management and were effectively filling the void left by federal
authorities. The other important but less tangible aspect of sustainability is the intellectual capacity built
up by the TA at all levels throughout the country. While highly fragmented, this legacy represented the
preservation of a cadre of environmental management professionals who had up to date knowledge in a
wide variety of environmental management disciplines. Interestingly, this expertise is increasingly
being used by the private industries recognizing its importance for modernization and attraction of
investments.

Results of the Russia GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project

The ICR for Russia GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project (Report No. 28177) indicates that the
project achieved all its major objectives. The development results were assessed as substantial. The
project overall outcomes were rated satisfactory.

Results of NPAF component

The original NPAF concept was designed as a revolving fund with an idea that NPAF would be able to
continue investing in pollution abatement projects after project closure. However, changes of the
Budget Code in 1998 affected the operation of NPAF and led to its restructuring. The Budget Code did
not provide for operation of such a fund. Nonetheless, the loan was restructured with an obligation to
keep NPAF operational under the Loan Agreement owning to legislative waivers for projects financed
by IFIs. Thus the revolving fund arrangement existed insofar as the IBRD loan was used and
disappeared when the loan was repaid in September 201126.

The original project design concept was flawed (the “win-win? project pipeline) and was abandoned.
The restructured project design was marginally effective. Given the long and tortured history of the
NPAF component, it is not unreasonable to believe that in the absence of strong market incentives,
regulatory and enforcement provisions supporting environmental improvements in the industry is likely
to remain effective. It does not appear that any institutional capacity was developed or was of interest in
being developed in the Ministries involved or in the financial intermediaries.

Results of Project Preparation Components

Part F financed the preparation of Roshydromet Modernization Project. The project was successfully
prepared and approved by the Board of Executive Directors in 2006. Part F supported preparation of
the project for Elimination of Past Environmental Liabilities in the Russian Federation. Preparation
activities did not progress due to the counterpart‟s failure to make the required administrative and
institutional arrangements and to complete the procurement of consultant services prior to EMP closure
in June 2011.



26
 Upon closure of NPAF Component the funds from the revolving account of NPAF in the amount of US$24
million were transferred to the Treasury according to the Russian Budget Code.


                                                                                                           19
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project‟s objectives, design and implementation were highly relevant to the priorities laid out in the
series of Country Assistance/ Partnership Strategies (1995, 1997, 1999, 2002-2005, 2007-2009). The
recently approved CPS (2012-2016) indicates renewed interest of the Government to strategically
address environmental management risks as part of the economic growth and diversification agenda.

An assessment of EMP objectives should be undertaken considering (a) the scope of Russia‟s economic
development and associated environmental problems and the level of political and public policy
commitment to addressing, and (b) the institutional framework that was operative in the 1990‟s as well
as how it has changed since then.

The period leading up to and following the break-up of the Soviet Union was marked by the emergence
of strong public and political commitment to improving environmental management and performance.
A reasonably well established institutional structure for environmental management created in the
Soviet Union in 1988, including the policy and legal developments related to transition to a market
economy, was considered as a natural baseline for strong uptake on mainstreaming environmental
concerns into the economy. Political and economic motivation for environmentally sustainable
development was largely overestimated 27 . Conversely, the potential institutional challenges and
setbacks were underestimated.

In hindsight, both the beneficiary and international community believed in a „technocratic‟ approach to
transition to a market economy influenced by exposure to technical, policy and institutional experience
of OECD countries -- something that has proven true in areas other than environment. Furthermore,
there was a strong belief that addressing the country‟s environmental problems could be more
effectively accomplished by providing intellectual capacity within government, scientific and industrial
organizations who would champion the change. The fundamental premise on which the EMP project
was developed that this capacity was to be supported by policy tools, institutional experience and
technology from Western Europe and North America where it was perceived that environment issues
had been effectively addressed. While the assumption of strong and receptive intellectual capacity in
the country remains valid, in mid 1990‟s onward a complex set of factors and changing circumstances
occurred that undermined the EMP project concept. Perhaps the most predominate factor was the
decline of government commitment to environmental management and the dominance of economic and
fiscal considerations in public policy making. These considerations included measures to reduce the
overall government structure, decentralize and privatize and make self-sufficient many services once
provided by the government at little or no cost to the public. Driven by this impetus, the Government
chose to reorganize and downscale the environmental management system. As a result, the State
Committee for Environment was abolished in 2000 and its functions were merged with the Ministry of
Natural Resources. Within this Ministry, the public policy emphasis has been on setting the conditions
for exploitation of existing resources and assets with less emphasis on sustainable use and resource
allocation and improved environmental performance.




27
    The SAR (paragraph 1.6) states ?An increasing number of government decision-makers in executive and
legislative branches at the federal and local levels in the Russian Federation are searching for ways to restructure
and reform the economy to promote efficient and more sustainable economic growth – an impossible goal without
taking environmental quality and natural resource management factors into account.?


                                                                                                                 20
With that background, the project‟s overall objective was unrealistic, particularly given the change in
circumstances and poor understanding of the complexity and challenges related to the economic
transition. To a greater or lesser degree the experience throughout the region28 was indicative of similar
developments. In retrospect, it is also arguable that the country was ready to accept technical assistance
products beyond a relatively narrow cadre of environmental experts within the national bureaucracy
that itself was coping with more fundamental structural change in terms of its place and influence
within the country. At the regional level, however, the project‟s objectives were more realistic and, to
varying degrees, were achievable.

Project objectives related to facilitating environmental investment through technical assistance activities
were also more reasonable and, to some degree, marginally successful. However, the overall impact is
qualified by comparing successes to the scale of modernizing Russia‟s large, but outdated, industrial
and infrastructure base. Similarly, the objective of facilitating the flow of donor funds for
environmental protection was realistic, but achievements were modest compared to the overall need.
The country has been unable to sustain the kind and level of political commitment to environmental
protection necessary to mandate and fund the required institutional structures, adopt and implement
policies and strategies, and operate upgraded national level management systems envisioned as the
basis for the project‟s primary technical assistance objectives.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Overall, the achievement of project outcomes is evaluated unsatisfactory as the project failed to reach
most of its major objectives. This section provides a general assessment of EMP outcomes as judged
against the Project‟s Development Objectives defined in the SAR (Table 4.4, page 64) Specific
activities that contributed to the achievement of these objectives are listed under Key Performance
Indicators in Table A2.1, Annex 2 of this ICR.

Establishment of National Environmental Database: Although the scope and use of the environmental
information database developed under the project remained limited the following is worth mentioning:
(i) the National Waste Management Information System developed with MNR, provided a
comprehensive database and covered waste generation, disposition, facilities options and regulatory
control measures as well as transboundary movement monitoring and reporting; (b) baseline
environmental performance database developed for four industrial sectors and maintained through the
project to varying degrees, was used in industrial policy development, and (c) specific data bases
applicable to local and regional level were developed for air and water quality, waste and public health
indicators, either directly or as part of regional action plans or decision support systems. Overall these
outcomes had marginal development impact at the national level.

Adoption of Action Plans at the Federal or Regional Level: The project produced Regional
Environmental Action Plans (REAPs) in the Urals and Upper Volga as well as a follow-up REAP in
Rostov Oblast, all of which were formally adopted for implementation within the respective regions. In
the case of Sverdlovsk Oblast, the REAP formed the basis of a broader strategic environmental
protection plan. In Kostroma, and particularly in Rostov Oblast, the development of the REAP led to
the establishment of a meaningful environmental priority setting process which, in turn, led to a better
political recognition of the importance of environmental concerns in development planning. In the case
of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), the project provided a substantive contribution to
its updating in 1998, but the country has since withdrawn from maintaining NEAP as environmental


28
   The EAP Task Force, Developing Effective Packages of Environmental Policy Instruments in the NIS:
Experience and Directions for Reform, Prepared for the Kiev 2003 Conference, December 2002.


                                                                                                        21
policy tool. Overall these outcomes generally met the project‟s objectives to the degree that was
institutionally practical and are assessed as marginally satisfactory.

Adoption of Specific Environmental Action Plans: The project produced a number of specific
environmental action plans which were consistent with, and contributed to, the achievement of project
objectives. At the national level, these covered natural resource property rights distribution,
environmental education, a sustainable development strategy, and four Sectoral Environmental Action
Plans (SEAPs) for key pollution-intensive sectors. While most of these products were formally
“accepted? by client agencies, they had very limited practical adoption and hence limited development
impact simply because of the institutional instability existing at that level. At the regional and local
level, outcomes in this area were primarily in the water sector related to rehabilitation and management
plans of specific water bodies and resource conservation strategies. Overall these outcomes were
considered generally unsatisfactory.

Adoption of Improved Regulatory and Enforcement Systems: The project contributed to regulatory and
enforcement improvements largely through support to preparation of specific laws, regulations and
implementation guidelines in a number of specific areas, mainly at the regional level. This includes the
development and launch of a “care and custody? framework initiative for regulation of hazardous waste
at the regional level in Sverdlovsk Oblast and to various degrees in other Oblasts. Similar regulatory
initiatives were adopted for public health (monitoring and impact assessment), water management
(Oblast regulations on drinking water supply, water rights and financing water-related infrastructure)
and in various policy related regulations. Nationally, the project provided support for legislation on
state environmental control and natural resource property rights which, however, was not adopted.
With few exceptions, the policy development opportunities were not fully utilized, largely due to major
institutional restructuring and/or dramatic downsizing of environmental protection bodies with the
associated loss of capacity and institutional memory. Having said this, one positive example of a
regulatory measure that was sustained is the use of health risk assessment by the Ministry of Health
which became mandatory. Conversely, the implementation of regulations concerning hazardous waste
management developed for regional application was effectively blocked by the Federal authorities. The
overall assessment of outcomes under this objective is unsatisfactory.

Dissemination of Experience and Project Results: The project undertook extensive efforts to
disseminate EMP results at both the national and regional levels. Several hundred reports and formal
technical papers were produced and more than 100 workshops and seminars held through the country.
An electronic database of EMP products and an e-archive of technical working papers were produced
and broadly distributed among participating ministries, regions and other stakeholders. The CPPI itself
and several of the TA components established web sites, the former being an accessible repository of
major project results. Several examples of the outputs of this effort are worth mentioning: (i) REAP
methodology was utilized in about 60 Oblasts and even, in the Urals region targeted municipal
environmental action plans were developed in several cities; (ii) the waste classification system,
compatible with international practice, was developed and used at the regional level and as a basis for
updating the national waste management system now in use; (iii) the regional and national waste
management information system and regulatory framework developed in the Urals has been transferred
for adaptation to Rostov and other Oblasts to the degree allowed by the Federal intervention. However,
the effect of dissemination efforts was generally unsustainable due to the decline in regional capacity
and the lack of methodological guidance and support from MNR. Contrary to public sector inaction, it
is interesting to note that the waste tracking system was utilized by at least one major oil and gas
development project (Sakhalin II) as the control mechanism for its waste management program. The
North Caucasus Water Management Decision Support System was disseminated and is being used in
several dozen Russian Regions and Seversky Donetz basin in Ukraine. Methodological documents on
health data collection and analysis, particularly in risk assessment, were also widely disseminated to


                                                                                                     22
national, regional and local health authorities. Despite these notable achievements, the overall
assessment of development outcomes in this area is only marginally satisfactory.

NPAF establishment and implementation: The entire period of NPAF‟s operation was characterized by
uneven developments and challenges. From 1994 to 2009 NPAF ED received 599 borrowing
applications for environmental investment projects. Out of these, 201 investment proposals were
selected for appraisal and pre-investment studies. Others did not comply with NPAF selection criteria.
A significant number of applications were withdrawn at early stage of pre-investment studies due to
applicants‟ disagreement with the assessments of financial position of enterprises and the obligation for
targeted use of funds, including for procurement of equipment and services. Applicants also faced
serious difficulties in meeting application requirements of NPAF‟s format. To assist the applicants
NPAF ED undertook 90 pre-investment studies and followed with detailed appraisal for 51 investments.
Of these, only 39 investment projects were approved by the NPAF Supervisory Board and received “no
objection? by the Bank. Only 7 projects were fully completed. Appraisal on the remaining investments
was discontinued upon the request of applicants, mainly due to deterioration of their financial position
resulting from the 1998 financial crisis. Overall, the development outcome of NPAF investment
portfolio is considered unsatisfactory.

Institutional Improvement for Environmental Management: The assessment of project development
impacts for institutional improvements for environmental management should be made on two levels.
The first is in relation to the overall national institutional structure, where clearly the project had little
impact due to the overriding institutional changes in the environmental management system at the
national, and to some degree, at regional level. Yet, the expectation that the project could have a
significant effect was unrealistic, nearly impossible, due to factors beyond the Bank‟s or counterparts‟
control.

The second level concerns the institutional tools and mechanisms for improved environmental
management supported by the project. In this regard the project made valuable contributions in a
number of areas such as environmental epidemiology and assessment, hazardous waste and water
quality management, including policies, standards, methodologies and guidelines for valuation of
environmental damage, integration of environmental management into investment project preparation,
waste disposal technology and practice, water quality standards, policies and framework tools for
decision support systems. The project also supported environmental management initiatives in the form
of sectoral associations, expertise centers and inter-regional councils as well as, in one case, creating a
trans-boundary environmental management agreement with Ukraine. A wide array of training activities
was undertaken in such areas as epidemiology, hazardous waste and water. Training in environmental
audit and formal EMS stimulated investment decisions among industrial sectors seeking to be more
competitive in the marketplace. In summary, despite some partial impacts at the regional level the
overall assessment of development impacts is that the activities for institutional improvement for
environmental management was unsatisfactory.

Facilitating donor support of the environmental sector in Russia: The project served as a vehicle for
facilitating broader support to EFP. Donor funded initiatives with CPPI facilitated donor funding and
supported CPPI implementation capacity for delivery of these initiatives. This indicates that the
development outcomes related to the latter were generally met. CPPI indeed provided basic project
implementation unit function for a number of Bank operations including for the Krasnoyarsk
Emergency Forestry Pest Management Program, the GEF financed Biodiversity Conservation and ODS
Consumption Phase Out Project and the Special Initiative on ODS Production Closure, the latter two
being the largest direct environmental investment projects undertaken in the industrial sector during the




                                                                                                           23
period 1996-2006. Conversely, direct donor TA funding that was attracted to support the EFP under the
CPPI administrative structure was more modest29 than initially envisaged. A much larger amount of
donor resources was envisioned, with contributions from United States, the United Kingdom, Canada,
and Finland, who expressed a significant interest in supporting the NPAF component, but their interest
never materialized into an actual pledge of resources and subsequently faded out.

These results prove that an effort to coordinate donor investments in the environmental sector which is
unsupported by institutional commitment is generally unsuccessful and therefore the overall
development outcomes of these activities are deemed moderately unsatisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
No economic or financial assessments were performed at the time of appraisal. However, individual
investments supported through the NPAF were screened for economic and financial viability (many of
which were either rejected or applications retracted due to a lack of financial transparency; see Section
3.2). As also mentioned elsewhere, local banks (e.g. Roseximbank) imposed their own set of financial
requirements which proved to be counterproductive to the on-lending function under the NPAF, while
other financial intermediaries were partially successful in financing some investment projects (e.g.
VneshtorgBank (VTB) financing three NPAF projects).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

The relevance of the project was apparent and activities were directed towards areas that were, and are,
relevant to improving environmental management in the Russian Federation. However, failure to
achieve many objectives under the PDO (primarily at the national level) and a general sense that these
were not achieved in an efficient manner (financial hurdles and overly bureaucratic), and not sustained
over time, the project is rated as unsatisfactory overall.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts



29
   Two Swiss Grants were the only additional co-financing sources mobilized for NPAF purposes. Grant TF
020217 (US$3 million) was used as a project preparation and appraisal resource for the NPAF portfolio and only a
relatively small portion was directed to source-based waste management (cleaner production/pollution prevention
development) in two enterprises in Yaroslavl Oblast. 95 percent of Grant funds were utilized and the undisbursed
amount of US$153,325 was cancelled and returned to Donor. The second Grant TF 03810 was for the joint co-
financing of NPAF investments in resource recovery/pollution abatement. Grant proceeds financed 20 percent of
the investment cost of five projects: This includes: (i) Technical modernization of cardboard production at
“Karton?(Novodvinsk, Arkhangelsk region) aimed at reduction of energy consumption and atmospheric
emissions of harmful substances (1996-1999); (ii) Reduction of energy consumption in cardboard production and
utilization of bark-wood wastes (BWW) at production line of bleached deciduous pulp at Arkhangelsk PPM
(2001-2005); (iii) Reduction of environmental impact of Kotlas PPM due to replacement of evaporation station
(2002-2008); (iv) Reduction of adverse environmental impact on the Upper Volga basin through modernization of
basic and auxiliary production units and treatment facilities at CJSC "Ostashkov Tannery" (2005-2009),
Environmental enhancement of Podolsk City through the modernization of the gas purification system of the
smelting shop of the Factory of secondary metals and alloys, Podolsk, Moscow oblast (2007-2009).




                                                                                                             24
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
See Section 3.2 above and Table A2.1, Annex 2 for further details on institutional strengthening and
support.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative). n/a

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

EMP development outcomes are likely to be substantially at risk, especially at the national level, given
the institutional and political environment that repeatedly counteracts project efforts. For example, most
of the capacity building in Government institutions has dissipated since many of these institutions have
been dismantled and resurrected under another mandate. Consequently, much of the intellectual capital
supported by the project moved to the private sector which is an indirect positive outcome. The
reluctance of agencies in formally adopting various strategies and action plans (e.g. SEAPs) is another
indication of how uncertainty in the political-economic environment is leading to a lack of commitment
– a risk that affected project implementation all along. Likewise, the NPAF Revolving Fund did not
evolve into a sustainable financing instrument for pollution abatement and in 2009 the funds were
returned to Treasury according to the Budget Code. One positive note stems from the sustainability of
technical assistance efforts to the Sanitary and Epidemiological Service of the Ministry of Health and
MOEDT. Also through its lengthy implementation history and institutional uncertainties, EMP often
served as the only vehicle for maintaining the policy dialogue on environmental management and
facilitated important Bank investments in meteorological and hydrological services and contributing to
sustainability. However, this indirect contribution to environmental sustainability only attests to the fact
that a prudent assessment of project implementation risks at the outset could have significantly
improved the project design and development outcomes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The flaws of project design and implementation discussed in the previous sections attest to a lack of
attention to the quality at entry and therefore the Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. Quality at
entry, described in section 2.1, was assessed as unsatisfactory, primarily due to overestimated
government commitment to improve and “mainstream? environmental policy. The project preparation
team also overestimated the capacity of the country to receive and sustain a large environmental TA
initiative. In addition, inadequate implementation arrangements further eroded the potential of the
project to make adjustments and address design flaws and underestimated risks during project
implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)


                                                                                                         25
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The QAG Supervision Assessment (QSA, 2004) covered a limited implementation period and provided
an Overall „Satisfactory‟30 rating. The QSA was carried out in FY03-04, and concluded with the general
view that subsequent to the project restructuring in 2002, the „Satisfactory‟ QSA rating was completely
applicable.

There is plenty of evidence of the dedication and professionalism of the supervision team and the
patience and determination they exhibited at attempting to straighten out a massive amount of issues
that were inherent in the project design. Of particular example is the manner in which the team held to
sound judgment in rejecting the Baikalsk pulp and paper project zero discharge investment proposal.
The QAG evaluation also noted the sound judgment of the task team which held a firm line regarding
the agreed upon conditions for the municipal WWTP.

At the same time, the QAG Panels‟ observation regarding project monitoring was fully consistent with
the project‟s shortcomings discussed above, pointing to the need for explicit attention to monitoring and
reporting of progress indicators. QAG ratings for Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects, and Adequacy of
Supervision were rated „Satisfactory‟, while on Candor and Quality the project performance was rated
„Moderately satisfactory‟ primarily because of the limited attention to the monitoring indicators in the
supervision reports.

Since 2004, implementation progress varied from unsatisfactory to moderately satisfactory while
disbursements barely moved from 2006 onwards (US$82 million in 2006 to US$86 million in 2011).
Most activities were met with sufficient institutional resistance to erode any supervision effectiveness.
This was mainly shown through the relatively few (final) completed NPAF investment projects. The
Medium-Term Review which is a valuable tool for adjusting original project focus and aligning
development objective with component restructuring was not used proactively. In this regard, overall
quality of supervision is rated as „Unsatisfactory‟.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

On the basis of unsatisfactory Quality at Entry, and implementation supervision, the overall Bank
performance is assessed as „Unsatisfactory‟.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Borrower performance in project preparation was satisfactory, with the Ministry of Environmental
Protection and Natural Resources actively participating in all aspects of project preparation. The
performance of the Borrower while initially strong when the project was championed at the Ministerial
level, weakened after the project began, for example, by the failure to substantiate the mandate of the
Federal Environmental Commission. It subsequently degenerated throughout its implementation to the
point where the lack of government action in areas such as resolving tax issues represented a significant
factor in the project being unable to fully deliver EMP products.



30
  Satisfactory or better on all aspects – a solid supervision effort, defined by sound and timely focus on
implementation problems and development effectiveness.


                                                                                                       26
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The performance of the primary implementing agency paralleled that of the Borrower and reached its
lowest point when the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ministry of Economic Development displayed
little interest in either active supervision of the project as its primary clients or in implementing its
results.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

Based on the moderately unsatisfactory rating of Government and the unsatisfactory performance of the
Implementing Agency, the overall Borrower performance is rated „Unsatisfactory‟.

6. Lessons Learned

The long implementation history of EMP demonstrates that factors which played a major role in this
project can be grouped into four categories: (i) client commitment and ownership; (ii) project
complexity; (iii) institutional capacity and sustainability of TA; and (iv) elements of the Borrower‟s and
Bank‟s roles in resolving implementation issues. A separate set of lessons emerged from the
implementation of NPAF component specifically relevant to pollution abatement projects. The project
yielded many good lessons which reflect different experiences of stakeholders which are interconnected
and relevant to all parties in EMP implementation and beyond.

Client commitment and ownership

Overreliance on political commitment of one agency in a highly dynamic economic and
institutional transition could lead to underestimating the importance of fully testing government
commitment, ownership and prospects of sustaining project outcomes. The project largely failed to
meet the overall objectives and expectations at the national level because of the lack of Borrower‟s
commitment to policy and institutional improvements of environmental management system. More
direct and early involvement of all stakeholders from the economic and financial ministries (MOEDT,
MOF) as well as national legislative bodies (i.e. The Duma) in the project design and implementation
could have strengthened outcome sustainability. Institutional counterpart commitment should be fully
tested at appraisal and confirmed at negotiations including through establishment of reporting structures
and explicit agreements on counterpart mandates and relationships. These should be confirmed prior to
effectiveness perhaps through conditionality related to creditable interagency agreements being in place
and verified regularly during supervision and provisions for timely restructuring - where there is an
indication of ownership degradation or changes in the institutional structure.

Project complexity

An appropriate balance should be reached between the desire to maximize project impacts and
minimize project complexity. Taking into account a multitude of development issues which Russia
was facing in early 1990s the team was tempted to address as many development issues in the sector as
possible. Reality proved that even abridged EMP project which included four TA components and
NPAF credit line to be implemented in a dozen of regions was far too challenging for implementation
both for the client and the Bank. Arguably, better results could have been reached if project activities
would have been centered on fewer regions and components, and even on more focused interventions
within those components. Future TA in this sector in Russia may benefit from a “bottom up? regional



                                                                                                       27
approach rather than a “top down? approach until there is sustained interest and political commitment to
utilize technical assistance by the national government for environmental management.

An early agreement with project counterparts on development objectives and outcomes/outputs
that are realistic, focused and measurable could mitigate implementation risks related to project
complexity. EMP illustrated that where the objectives and scope were best defined, undertaken on a
reasonable scale, and were linked to specific tasks (i.e. waste management, water and epidemiological
sub-components) better outputs were obtained. Conversely, in the policy sub-component where broad
policy and environmental improvement objectives were set, it was more difficult to correlate outcomes
and outputs with objectives. The assumption that the experience in Poland of measurable
environmental performance improvement being correlated with reform of the environmental
management system was not realistic for Russia, given the different history of market reforms and the
substantial TA from bilateral sources that preceded Bank intervention in the case of Poland.

Institutional capacity and sustainability of TA

An early agreement on linkages and coordination between project components and
implementation arrangements could motivate potential users of Technical Assistance (TA)
products and have direct incentives for TA application. The sustainability of standalone TA is
correlated to the ability of the project to create and sustain institutional ownership of TA products. An
even more fundamental question is whether standalone TA, only loosely linked to direct investment, is
optimal or viable in the Russian context. While the EMP TA components responded to specific national
priorities, ranging from institutional reform in the environmental sector to that of economic
development and investment, they largely failed in supporting investment priorities identified for actual
financing. This points to the problem of the soundness of NPAF on-lending arrangements and had an
effect of isolating the TA products - particularly REAPs and SEAPs - from the delivery of
environmental investments. Additionally, it is recommended that implementation arrangements embed
TA resources within the client organization and not allow the progressive separation of these resources
under independent functional control as was ultimately the case of CPPI. Any future large scale
technical assistance initiatives in the sector should be based on a track record of well-tested public
policy in conjunction with a demand for this kind of TA.

Adaptation, appropriateness and the form of delivery of TA should be adapted to the local
context. EMP illustrates the importance of critically testing the appropriateness of foreign technical
assistance to the local situation, both in terms of capacity to apply it and its quality. Foreign technical
assistance under EMP was largely delivered in large contract packages through foreign consulting firms
selected using Bank procedures. While facilitating contracting, early implementation, rapid
disbursement and easier supervision, this approach assumed that selected firms were well experienced
both in modern environmental management approaches as practiced in OECD countries but also had the
capacity to effectively transfer this into the local context. While this was the case for a number of
contracts, particularly where well defined and agreed terms of reference existed, the overall
performance in doing so was uneven. Few western consultants at the time had sufficient experience in
the region, and particularly Russia, such that EMP was a learning experience for them as much as it was
for the counterpart. The process of relying on foreign experts to deliver TA also eroded the borrower‟s
confidence of the loan‟s marginal value of internalizing this capacity. Over time, foreign experts took
on a more one-to-one advisory role with local counterparts. Future TA initiatives should carefully
design the mix of foreign and local resource allocation and perhaps utilize a model of integrating
foreign and local experts, something that may require examination of the procurement procedures used.




                                                                                                        28
Resolving implementation issues

Multi-layered implementation arrangements and oversight responsibilities complicate project
implementation and internal coordination. Notwithstanding other factors that created a relatively
inefficient and overly bureaucratic implementation arrangement, a basic lesson from EMP is that
complex implementation arrangements involving a matrix of interagency supervisory structures may
not be workable when overlain on a direct relationship with TA clients. In combination with pre-
established stable counterpart arrangements for receiving and applying TA products, future TA projects
should maintain a clear separation between the counterpart agency‟s functional technical management
and the provision of administrative PIU services.

Timely project restructuring is key to adapting to changing sector priorities and institutional
context. EMP provides both positive and negative examples of reacting quickly to changing priorities
and institutional instability in counterpart arrangements. A positive example was the hazardous waste
sub-component where recognized weaknesses and early restructuring resulted in a generally satisfactory
outcome - at least in terms of delivering planned products. Similarly, the refocusing of remaining TA
resources at the end of the project on expanding project scope by dissemination and implementation of
its more successful outputs in Rostov was significant. On the other hand, substantial restructuring of
the policy and regulatory support sub-component was clearly required when it became clear that it did
not have the high-level counterpart mandate on which its national level objectives depended.
Furthermore, the applicability of a western model based of legal reform proved impractical.
Additionally, the project team could have been more proactive to undertake early restructuring,
reallocation of resources and/or partial cancellations of non-performing components in the face of
diminishing client commitment.

Design and implementation flaws may not be remediated by numerous project extensions. The
lengthy implementation of EMP raises the obvious question of why the Bank prolonged a non-
performing project. Can Russia‟s stature as an important client rationally counterbalance the numerous
difficulties encountered with multiple component and institutional changes affecting project
implementation over the past fifteen years? While the answer is most likely a political one, it is also
important to note that the project (fortunately or unfortunately) represented a venue to maintain the
Bank-client dialogue on environmental policies, environmental management and public health issues.
Be as it may, one lesson clearly emerges that project design, preparation and implementation
encompasses most of the issues which current Bank operational policies, which evolved over the years,
are aiming to address.

Implementation of NPAF component

NPAF’s design would have benefitted from a more streamlined on-lending approach, a well-
functioning M&E system and targeting a more narrow set of priority areas. The low number of
completed investment projects was a reflection of the limited number of actual “win-win? opportunities
and the overly complex on-lending appraisal process. Future intermediary lending should be
accompanied by a capacity assessment of the financial institution(s) involved. If it is determined to be
limited, explicit institutional strengthening for preparing and appraising projects should be included in
the project design. A well-defined environmental monitoring program integrated into the project design
will allow for a more straightforward assessment of progress in meeting project objectives. Given the
political, social, and economic upheavals of the time, a more limited or pilot operation might have been
more effective, confining the operation to: (a) a priority industrial sector, (b) a specific priority region
(e.g. a “hot spot?), (c) a priority media (e.g. air quality, specific river or lake quality etc.), and/or (d) a
priority industrial pollutant (e.g. sulfur dioxide, dust etc. in air or nutrients such as phosphorous, or
heavy metals in water, etc.).


                                                                                                            29
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments on the draft ICR dated February 19, 2012 were received from the Ministry of Finance
(March 23, 2012), Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (March 19, 2012) and Ministry of
Economic Development (March 26, 2012). Comments are contained in Annex 7.

In summary, some of the comments (e.g., the Ministry of Environmental and Natural Resources)
endorse the ICR assessment, while others (e.g., Ministries of Finance and Economic Development)
disagree with the ICR‟s unsatisfactory rating of the overall project outcome, the Borrower‟s and the
Bank‟s performance. On the premise that the ICR‟s purpose is to independently assess the project’s
experience, capture the lessons learned and enhance the design, preparation and implementation of
future operations, the EMP ICR was prepared to meet this objective by drawing attention to areas where
major shortcomings occurred and affected project development outcomes. It also acknowledges the
individual achievements, especially at the regional level, and points to the evolving policy and
institutional context that created the enabling environment or acted as a barrier to project success.
Certainly, the ICR aims to present an impartial and candid representation of actions of all parties
concerned in what is believed to be one of the lengthiest project implementation experiences in the
region. The ratings assigned to the key development aspects such as relevance, development impacts
and efficacy are based on the project’s experience – and should not necessarily be generalized to what
could be anticipated in future engagements.

(b) Cofinanciers

The Implementation Completion Memorandum with detailed summary of EMP activities financed by
the Swiss co-financing grant (COFIN 03810) was sent to the donor for comments on December 13,
2010. No particular comments were provided. Relevant documents are on file.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                                                                   30
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                 Actual/Latest
                                       Appraisal Estimate                                  Percentage of
            Components                                           Estimate (USD
                                        (USD millions)                                      Appraisal
                                                                    millions)
Center for Project Preparation and
Implementation (Part C)                             4.38                   4.88                111
Hazardous Waste (Part A)                            6.86                   6.35                 93
Policy and Regulatory (Part A)                     15.24                  15.10                 99
National Pollution Abatement Fund
(Part B)                                           52.09                  50.00                 96
Water Quality (Part A)                              8.79                   9.16                104
Environmental Epidemiology (Part
A)                                                   6.68                  6.69                100
Preparation of Environmental
Liabilities Project (Part F)                         0.00                  2.40                  -


               Total Baseline Cost                 94.04                  94.58                101
Physical Contingencies                              4.97                   0.00
Price Contingencies                                11.09                   0.00
               Total Project Costs                110.10                  94.58                 86
Front-end fee PPF                                   0.00                   0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.00                   0.00
       Total Financing Required                   110.10                  94.58                 86




(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                              Type of         Estimate         Estimate    Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                            Cofinancing        (USD             (USD        Appraisal
                                                              millions)        millions)
Borrower                                                           9.80            7.08          72
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development 1                                                110.10            86.47             79
Russian Enterprises and Banks                                     75.00            63.71             85
Swiss Grant TF020217 2                                             0.00             2.85
Swiss Grant TF03810 3                                              0.00             5.64
                                   Total                         194.90           165.75             85
1 – A total of USD$20,437,000 was canceled as of June 25, 2009.
2 - Support for project preparation and appraisal of NPAF portfolio.
3 - Financed 20% of the amounts disbursed under the NPAF sub-loans at five investment projects – Karton PPM,
Arkhangelsk PPM, Kotlas PPM, Ostashkov Tannery, and Podolsk SMA factory.




                                                                                                           31
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Technical Assistant Component

Policy and Regulatory Support sub-component: The objective of the sub-component is to achieve a
significant reduction in environmental damage in the Upper Volga and Urals over 3 to 5 years with a
notional target of 25% reductions in critical ambient air and water pollutants. While available
monitoring data shows that pollutant reductions have occurred in the Upper Volga, it cannot be
reasonably measured that this objective was achieved, nor if it was reasonable, in the beginning. What
was achieved in both regions was provision of a planning framework in the form of REAPs and
subsidiary tools such as data base and decision support system to implement the necessary institutional
and regulatory reforms to obtain pollution reduction. This in effect reflects partial achievement of one
of two subsidiary objectives, namely developing capacity to set environmental priorities, institute
environmental policies and monitor environmental conditions at the regional level. However, the
outcomes in these areas at the national level were not achieved because of the government‟s declining
interest in them. The second subsidiary objective related to establishing the administrative economic,
legal and technical framework for emission reduction in specific sectors and regions through negotiated
agreements was not achieved in any substantive way. Capacity building of staff working in
environmental protection bodies through the development of training strategy and delivery of training
courses were also not successful. The sub-component is assessed as unsatisfactory with respect to its
outputs, both as measured by these objectives and the key performance indicators.

Environmental Epidemiology Sub-component: The sub-component‟s outputs basically match the
component objectives set for related to capacity development and environmental health data. The
relationships between environment and health were addressed and supported by specific studies
developed under the sub-component. The outputs substantially contributed to the general objective of
integrating environmental health impacts into the mainstream of environmental policies at the regional
level in Urals and, to lesser extent, at the federal level. Sub-component outputs helped to improve the
system for generating, collecting, managing and analyzing data on child health as the basis for
monitoring the consequences of changes in population exposure to various pollutants. While the Federal
Environmental Epidemiology Center which was to be a national focus for environmental health data
collection and reporting, quality control of data, coordination of regional expertise centers was not
formally established, its functions were taken over by the Federal Center of State Sanitary and
Epidemiology Surveillance. On this basis, the overall outputs of the sub-component were satisfactory.

Water Quality and Water Resource Management Sub-component: This sub-component‟s can be
considered to have met its overall objectives, at least to some degree at the regional level. It objective to
contribute to improvement of water resources management and related utility services was achieved
through delivery of improved management plans, application of modern approaches and experience
from OECD countries, and expansion of the pipeline of priority investment projects. Similarly, some of
the targeted regional objectives were achieved in small watershed management (North Caucasus and
Upper Volga), introduction of modern databases and decision support systems, development of
recommendations for financial and administrative improvements in operation of water utilities.
However, the implementation of these products at the national level was generally limited and less than
uniform in the some pilot regions, particularly the Upper Volga. Other objectives, such as introduction
of water quality monitoring system, long-term water resources planning, improved financial, economic
and institutional tools for better river basin management, training of staff and building of improved
skills were ultimately not successful. Federal task of development national water quality standards and
objectives did not lead to any measurable progress in setting up a more reasonable regulatory base. On
this basis the overall sub-component outputs were considered unsatisfactory.



                                                                                                          32
Hazardous Waste Management Sub-component: The sub-component outputs at the national level
generally met the objective of providing MNR with the capacity to collect, classify, document, analyze
and report waste management related information and to utilize this as the basis for defining national
waste management policies and priority actions. A comprehensive information management tool for
accomplishing this was delivered and implemented in MNR as was support in strategy development and
in meeting national obligations related to international trans-boundary movement of waste. Similarly, at
the regional level a relatively complete “care and custody? regulatory framework for hazardous waste
was provided and started implementation in the competent authority in Sverdlovsk Oblast. This
experience was transferred on a directed basis to Rostov Oblast for adaptation and implementation and
was disseminated to other regions as well as being further developed in subsequent bilateral TA
projects. Limitations in the outcomes were the delivery of support equipment to support regional inputs
into national data management capability and the resources available to MNR at all levels to maintain
implementation. The sub-component‟s outputs as delivered in 2002 can be considered satisfactory.
However, the absence of any sustained implementation by MNR effectively negates this assessment.

Krasnoyarsk Emergency Forestry Pest Management Program. This program, aimed to mitigate the
consequences of Siberian silkworm outbreak by applying environmentally safe chemical and biological
agents by the low-cost techniques of aerial spraying, achieved its objectives and helped to minimize
negative impacts of the infestation. Experience gained in the process of implementation and contacts
established with the Federal Forestry Service helped to identify and prepare a Sustainable Forestry Pilot
Loan.

New Initiatives. Implementation of four new initiatives (i.e Regional Environmental Support Program;
Integration of Environment in Strategic Planning and Economic Decisions; Global Development
Initiative Support Program, and NPAF Support and EMP Results dissemination started in the second
quarter of 2001. Unfortunately, the work was terminated in February-March 2002 when EMP TA
components were closed. Nevertheless, important outputs were delivered within the scope of Rostov
Environmental Support Program, in global initiative support (assistance in preparation for signing of the
Stockholm Convention), in developing environmental and economic indicators and preparing Russian
national documents for the Johannesburg summit as well as in developing methodology of valuation of
environmental damages and natural resources .

CPPI Component: The objective of the CPPI component was primarily to provide basic Project
implementation capacity (function as PIU) in support of EMP with technical direction and management
provided by the components and client organizations. In terms of outputs, this was basically achieved,
initially by contracting large foreign technical assistance services contracts, later with local services of
firms and individuals. However, CPPI‟s performance in managing procurement and disbursement was
mixed and ultimately had an adverse impact on the overall quality of EMP outcomes. The suspension,
and in some cases early termination of some planned foreign TA work due to contract and tax issues
reduced the quality of TA products and delayed their delivery. The premature elimination of General
Consultant support for these reasons was particularly critical in EMP‟s not fully capitalizing on the
foreign TA that was invested in. At the same time it should be noted that in some cases (e.g. 2 contracts
in Policy sub-component) termination of contracts by CPPI was warranted due to basically poor
performance of consultants and low value added.

Perhaps more significantly, procurement and delivery of significant quantities of equipment required to
support implementation of TA products was not undertaken in a timely fashion to the point that some
was not actually delivered by the time this component was closed. In the second major objective of the
CPPI component, namely providing a vehicle for implementation broader EFP donor funded initiatives,
it basically achieved the capacity to prepare and manage several GEF operations and a few bilateral
grants. As a general assessment, the outputs of the component are considered unsatisfactory.


                                                                                                         33
NPAF Component: For the period from 1995-2009 NPAF received 599 applications from industrial
enterprises for financing environmental investment projects. Of these, 398 were rejected and the
remaining 201 were selected for appraisal and pre-investment studies. Of these, 111 projects were
withdrawn at an early stage of the pre-investment studies because of the applicants‟ disagreement with
the required procedures for assessment of the financial position of the enterprises and the obligation for
targeted use of funds (i.e. for procurement of equipment and services). Applicants also had substantial
difficulties in meeting NPAFs information requirements for the loan application. As a result, only 90
projects remained for which NPAF ED undertook pre-investment studies in accordance with World
Bank procedures (44 with the support of international consultants funded from the Swiss Grant TF
020217). Thirty seven of these projects did not have satisfactory outcomes for their pre-investment
studies and were dropped, leaving 51 projects for detailed appraisal. As a result of the detailed appraisal,
39 projects were approved by the NPAF Supervisory Board and received “no-objection? from the
World Bank. Subsequently, 14 projects were discontinued upon request from the applicants due to their
deteriorating financial position, and of the remaining 25 projects only seven remained active, the
remaining sixteen applicants dropped due to various reasons, some were frustrated by the whole process
and had easier access to funds from other sources. From the seven remaining projects, six have been
fully completed and one was partially completed.

Overall, seven NPAF projects have been completed (six fully and one partially. Five projects were
implemented with State banks (VTB and Roseximbank), and two projects were processed through
direct lending from MOF to the final beneficiary. Their salient characteristics are presented in Table
A2.2 below.

It is of interest to note that none of the implemented investment projects is in line with the original
“win-win? concept. At best, some of the projects could be defined as energy efficiency: achieving both
a reduction in operating costs and associated reductions in emissions of fuel combustion products, and
some others are simply industrial modernization. However, in no case were valuable by-products
recovered for sale/offset operation costs. Eventually, the selection criteria for priority investments were
relaxed considerably, and the original “win-win? objective was lost. A variety of subprojects were
considered including rehabilitation of a hydro dam, development of district heating scheme using mine
waters, and improvement of a lake environment through removal of bottom sediments, etc.. In short,
the uncertainties and ever evolving implementation framework opened opportunities to offer any
project that in some way can be considered “environmental? for NPAF‟s consideration.

The GEF-financed Biodiversity Conservation Project: The project consisted of four components
each of which contributed to the broader Environmental Framework Program supported by EMP and
its implementation was associated with the EMP through the CPPI. The following are key outputs from
the GEF-financed Biodiversity Conservation project as reported in the separate ICR (Report No.
28177)31:

Component A "Strategic Overview". This component developed the national and regional biodiversity
conservation strategies and launched new economic, financial, legislative and information mechanisms
for their implementation. The National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Action Plan for the
Russian Federation were developed, adopted by national authorities and endorsed by all stakeholders
and the public.



31
 http://imagebank.worldbank.org/servlet/WDS_IBank_Servlet?pcont=details&menuPK=64154159&searchMenu
PK=4209226&theSitePK=501889&eid=000012009_20040402124138&siteName=IMAGEBANK.


                                                                                                        34
Component B "Strengthening Protected Area System". This component supported a range of important
nation-wide and region-specific institutional and operational improvements to ensure the long-term
sustainability of biodiversity conservation in Russia, and financed targeted PA-based conservation
programs, which achieved substantial results on the ground.

Component C "Lake Baikal Regional Program". This component established a functioning framework
for inter-sectoral and inter-regional coordination enabling the incorporation of biodiversity conservation
into the policy of sustainable socio-economic development of the Lake Baikal Region.

Component D "Project Management and Coordination". This component financed the operation of the
Project Implementation Group (PIG), which ensured planning and coordination of day-to-day project
activities, their technical supervision, and the transparent administration of funds.

Project Preparation for Roshydromet Modernization and Institutional Strengthening: The EMP
supported the preparation of Roshydromet Modernization Project which was approved by the Board of
Executive Directors in 2005. The project aimed to strengthen the technical and institutional capacity of
Roshydromet to provide accurate and timely hydrometeorological services to its clients as well as to the
World Meteorological Organization (WMO), in which Russia has historically played a leading role.
The project financed complex modernization of Roshydromet‟s computing and communication
facilities and observational networks, and boosted its institutional development on the basis of more
balanced interaction with sectoral and other clients on the federal, regional, and municipal levels.


Project Preparation for Elimination of Past Environmental Liability in the Russian Federation
(Part F): During the last decade the issue of past environmental liabilities (PEL) attracted renewed
interest in Russia, both at the national and regional level. It has been acknowledged in several national
programs as a priority. Two federal stakeholder agencies, Rostekhnadzor and the Ministry of Economic
Development and Trade (MEDT), subsequently requested the World Bank to study the issue, and
follow up with an investment project. The preparation stared in late 2007 and continued unevenly
through 2010. Due to counterpart‟s failure to make the required administrative and institutional
arrangements and to complete the procurement of consultant services prior to EMP closure in June
2011, the project preparation did not make progress.

Table A2.1 Key Performance Indicators

      Indicator        Delivered Outputs
 1. Establishment of   National
 National Databases     Policy Sub-component: SEAP databases set up, and maintained/disseminated by
                           CPPI through project life. SEAPs for Basic Chemistry, Non Ferrous and Ferrous
                           sectors are utilized to the various degree by sectoral stakeholders
                        Hazardous Waste Sub-component: National Waste Management Information
                           System incorporated historical waste generation, disposition, and management
                           options and provided capacity to collect current information upon transfer to MNR.
                           Components of system further refined by subsequent bilateral TA
                        Hazardous Waste Sub-component: Waste management regulation database and
                           database capacity for waste tracking in a regional regulatory management system
                        Epidemiology Sub-component: Efforts limited to evaluation of existing national
                           databases and upgrading methodology of development
                        Water Sub-component: Web based water management regulations database
                        Policy: Register and database of acting legislative and normative acts, normative-
                           technical documents covering safety and labor protection in marine oil and gas



                                                                                                            35
     Indicator       Delivered Outputs
                         exploration

                     Sub-National
                      Policy Sub-component: Regional GIS data bases (air quality/water quality/waste) in
                        Upper Volga Oblasts developed for the sub-component are used and maintained by
                        Regional MNR offices for decision making
                      Policy Sub-component: Database contained in Upper Volga Regional
                        environmental decision support system operating in 2 Oblasts
                      Water Sub-component: North Caucasus – Water quality and water resource
                        management database included in information management and decision support
                        system (conformity certificate № SBS MNR-00-19 dated June 10th, 2000)
                      Water Sub-component: Upper Volga Integrated Regional Information Management
                        System provides working regional data base on water quality and water resource
                        management
                      Water Sub-component: Decision Support Information System for Water Utilities
                      Water Sub-component: Graphical Decision Support Information System for Water
                        Management at the regional level
                      Water Sub-component: Decision Support Information System for river basin water
                        management applicable to Ustie, Koloksha, Chusovaya, and Iset river basins and
                        systems
                      Water Sub-component: Drinking water quality monitoring database of chemical
                        and biological pollution indicators for 1999 and the first quarter of 2000 in
                        Sverdlovsk region
                      Hazardous Waste Sub-component: Databases on waste generation, disposition, and
                        management options incorporated into regional data management system
                        operational in Sverdlovsk and Rostov Oblasts
                      Hazardous Waste Sub-component: Database on legal regulatory acts and other
                        documents regulating waste management in Rostov Oblast
                      Epidemiology Sub-component: Databases of priority health indicators established
                        at municipal level SANEPID in 8 cities in Urals and Cherepovets (Upper Volga)
2. Adoption of        NEAP: Input into MNR development of NEAP on Environmental Policy Concept,
Overall Federal or      Methodology for Regional Environmental Plans - NEAP was recommended by
Regional Action         Government of the RF on November 12, 1998 (protocol No 41)
Plans                 National Program on Wastes: Input to the development of the program and
                        following regulatory and infrastructure development programs
                      REAPs: Formally adopted by the following Oblast Governments and/or
                        Legislatures: Yaroslavl, Kostroma, Vologda and Ivanovo (Upper Volga),
                        Sverdlovsk (Urals) , and Rostov (North Caucasus)
                      SEAPs: Accepted by the Client Sectoral Ministry as an input to policy planning.
                        Never formally adopted due to institutional restructuring
                      Sverdlovsk Oblast Directive Program for Environment 2000-2004
3. Adoption of        Concept of Natural Resource Property Rights Distribution for MNR submitted to
Specific                the Committee on Natural Resources of the State Duma on April 10, 1997
Environmental         Federal Program on Environmental Education for SCEP/MoE - approved by
Action Plans            SCEP
                      National Strategy on Sustainable Development for MoE – approved by
                        Government on December 11, 1997
                      Ekaterinburg Environmental and Health Action Plan approved by the city
                        authorities
                      Strategy for Industrial Waste Management Infrastructure Development in
                        Sverdlovsk Oblast



                                                                                                       36
     Indicator         Delivered Outputs
(i) Water Quality       Management plan for the Tsimlyansk reservoir in the North Caucasus approved by
and Water Resource         the Don River Basin Water Authority on July 24, 2000 and agreed with Deputy
Management                 Governor of Rostov Oblast Administration
                        Management plans for the Gorky and Rybinsk reservoirs in Upper Volga approved
                           by MNR on December 30, 1997
                        Program for the rehabilitation and protection of small rivers in Rostov Oblast –
                           accepted by client and is in process of implementation by the Oblast Committee on
                           Environmental Protection and Natural Resources
                        Strategic Action Plan for the Lower Don Water Conservation System – accepted by
                           Client and is in process of implementation
                        Yaroslavl and Kostroma Target Programs on Drinking Water Quality approved by
                           Heads of Administration (Governor)
                        Small Watershed Management Plans in Upper Volga and North Caucasus regions
                        Programs for the conservation of small rivers in Upper Volga and North Caucasus
                           regions
                        Concepts and structure of programs “Clean Water? for drinking water supply
                           improvement/water use optimization for the cities Kostroma and Ivanovo have been
                           prepared and approved by regional Administrations
                        Business plan for reconstruction of the Ekaterinburg water supply network
(ii) Iron and Steel     SEAP developed, and transferred to client Ministry. Accepted by client but never
                           formally adopted largely due to institutional restructuring
(iii) Non-Ferrous       SEAP developed, and transferred to client Ministry. Accepted by client but never
Metals                     formally adopted largely due to institutional restructuring
(iv) Basic              SEAP developed, and transferred to client Ministry. Accepted by client but never
Organic/Inorganic          formally adopted largely due to institutional restructuring
Chemicals
(v) Oil Refining and      SEAP developed for oil refining sector only, and transferred to client Ministry.
Petrochemicals             Accepted by client but never formally adopted largely due to institutional
                           restructuring
(vi) Agriculture –        This SEAP was excluded from the final project work program due to absence of
Intensive Livestock        sectoral client agency
Operations
4. Adoption of            Regulatory package for state environmental control including draft Federal Law
Improved                   “On State Environmental Control?– accepted by SCEP
Regulatory and            Law on Natural Resources State Property –considered by Committee of Duma but
Enforcement                not formally enacted
Systems
                          Federal Law “On Industrial and Domestic Waste? № 89-ФЗ, June 24 1998 and
                           Federal Law “Оn Amendments and Supplements to Federal Law “On Industrial
                           and Domestic Waste? # 169-ФЗ of December 29, 2000
                          Russian Concept of Earmarked Environmental Investments
                          14 Oblast laws have been developed, 23 executive orders of Oblasts administrations
                           and 37 regulatory documents as products of REAP in Upper Volga and Urals. All
                           documents entered into force by orders of Oblast authorities
                          12 Regulatory acts developed and adopted in Rostov Oblast from REAP
                          Governmental Decree “On the Implementation of Risk Assessment for
                           Environmental and Public Health Management in Russian Federation? (decrees of
                           Ministry of Health № 25 of 10.11.97 and of State Committee for Environmental
                           Protection of RF № 03-19/24-3483 of 10.11.97)
                          Order of the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation and Federal Hydromet
                           and Environmental Monitoring Service #410/122 of November 15, 1999 “On the
                           improvement of effectiveness of social hygienic and environmental monitoring



                                                                                                              37
     Indicator        Delivered Outputs
                          systems in RF?
(i) Water Quality      Legislation for Target Budgetary Fund for Water Bodies Restoration and
and Water Resource        Conservation in Yaroslavl Oblast
Management             Legislation on Water Use in Kostroma and Yaroslavl Oblasts
                       Oblast-level law “About regulation of water-right relations in Sverdlovsk Oblast?
                          dated 27.05.99
                       Oblast level law “About drinking water supply in Sverdlovsk Oblast? dated
                          22.01.99
                       Oblast level law “On payments for water resources use? dated 20.04.99
                       Rostov Oblast Administration Decree “On monitoring of the water bodies within
                          the Rostov Oblast?
                       Basic Regulations on Water Resources Use of the Verkhne-Makarovskoe,
                          Volchikhinsk Reservoirs on the Chusovaya River, the Novomariinsk and Revdinske
                          reservoirs on the Revda River, the Iset and Verkhne-Iset Reservoirs on the Iset
                          River
(ii) Hazardous         Regulation on Hazardous Waste Transportation and Control over their Delivery in
Waste Management          the Sverdlovsk Oblast
                       Registration and Follow-up Control of Nature Users Involved in Waste
                          Management in Sverdlovsk Oblast (effective at the level of the RF Subject by
                          Resolution #.39A of 18.07.00 with the Phased Implementation Schedule approved
                          on 01.08.00)
                       Guidance on Waste Inventory (became effective at the Subject level as per order
                          No.438 of 05.11.98 by Sverdlovsk Oblast SCEP and the Resolution of the
                          Sverdlovsk Government No. 309-ПП of 18.04.00)
(iii) Environmental   Project contributed to the development of various EA and EIA regulatory documents
Assessment            and guidelines
5. Dissemination of   Publications/Papers/Presentations (Numbers/Subjects etc)
Experience and
Results of Projects
for:
(i) Adoption at          National waste management information system transferred and operational in
federal level             MNR
(ii) Adoption by         REAPs –methodology applied for development of REAPs in 60 others oblasts as
other regions             well as Municipal level plans in Urals
                         Concepts from Draft Law “On Natural Resources State Property? have been
                          applied in regional environmental protection laws in Vologda and Yaroslavl oblasts
                         Dissemination of regional waste classification system in Urals region, adoption in
                          several oblasts
                         Dissemination of regional modules of national waste data management system
                          including training and IT equipment to 26 regions
                         Utilization of Urals waste tracking system as federal and regional model as well as
                          for large private enterprises implementing EMS programs
                         North Caucasus Water Management Decision Support System was disseminated
                          and implemented in all Southern Okrug and more than 20 other Russian Subjects of
                          Federation and Seversky Donetz River Basin Authority in the Ukraine
                         Dissemination of methodological documents respecting health data collection and
                          analysis – 15 workshops, 45 published reports/papers in Russian, 49 conference
                          presentations in Russia, 3 international presentation.
                         Oblast Level Waste Laws based on Sverdlovsk regulatory Framework – (Rostov,
                          Stravropol)
6. National               At the time of project preparation there was no requirement for a log-frame or



                                                                                                           38
     Indicator       Delivered Outputs
Pollution                 specification of performance indicators. Furthermore, no log-frame or performance
Abatement Facility        indicators for the NPAF component were used before 2004. The indicators
                          developed in 2004 included: (i) amount of disbursed investments in pollution
                          abatement projects, including NPAF sub-loans; (ii) number of completed projects;
                          (iii) achievement of projected environmental outputs through reduction of
                          emissions/discharges/wastes; (iv) quality of information on outcomes.
                      Preparation of IPs for financing out of NPAF funds:
                          - 599 Investment Proposals on IPs were considered
                          - 90 IPs were subject to pre-investment studies
                          - 39 IPs were approved by the NPAF Supervisory Board for financing
                          - 7 IPs (at DAO "Karton", at OJSC "Plastkard", at OJSC "Arkhangelsk PPM", at
                                OJSC "Solombala PPM", at OJSC "Kotlas PPM", at CJSC "Ostashkov
                                Tannery", at JSC “Secondary Metals and Alloys?) were implemented.
                      Seven IPs completed:
                          - Modernization of two black liquor regeneration lines at the DAO "Cardboard"
                                and reconstruction of the press unit of cardboard machine at KARTON Pulp
                                and Paper Mill;
                         - Environmental load reduction by modernization of production process and
                               equipment, reduction of energy consumption by VC and PVC productions,
                               reduction of wet gases transport costs by organizing their transfer from the
                               VNPZ located nearby at Chemical Enterprises PLASTKARD;
                         - Bark-wood waste recovery and reduction of power consumption for cellulose
                               production at the OJSC "Solombala Pulp-and-Paper Mill?;
                         - Boiler modernization for bark wood waste incineration in "fluidized bed",
                               providing increasing boiler efficiency and complete utilization of bark wood
                               waste at ARKHANGELSK Pulp and Paper Mill;
                         - Reduction in power consumption for pulp production and stabilization of
                               process equipment performance at all evaporation stations and other related
                               technological units (washing installations, SRB). Thus providing reduction of
                               air emissions of pollutants, of discharge of polluted wastewater into surface
                               bodies, and reduction in water consumption as a whole at KOTLAS Pulp and
                               Paper Mill;
                         - Reduction of adverse environmental impact on the Upper Volga basin through
                               modernization of basic and auxiliary production units and treatment facilities at
                               CJSC "Ostashkov Tannery";
                         - Environmental enhancement in Podolsk city by reconstruction of the basic
                               manufacture on the JSC «Factory of Secondary Metals and Alloys» (SMA)
                      Implementation of investment projects at enterprises of PPI (pulp and paper
                         industry) has provided decrease in emissions of polluting substances more than by
                         50 %. Emissions of noxious highly toxic substances from DAO "Karton"
                         production were completely eliminated
                      OJSC «Kotlas PPM» essentially reduced the discharges of polluting substances into
                         the Vychegda River (by 65 % in recalculation BOD20, including reduction of
                         discharged lignosulfonates by 58 %)
                      Project implementation at Arkhangelsk PPM has allowed increasing the bark-wood
                         waste (BWW) utilization for thermal energy generation not only in comparison
                         with earlier utilized volume of BWW, but also in comparison with the designed
                         parameters of the project. Incineration of BWW allows the enterprise to save costs
                         for acquisition of fossil natural fuel
                      Project implementation at chemical plant “Plastkard? resulted in complete
                         elimination of wet gas and fuel gas emissions, reduction of total emissions by 79%
                         and reduction of solid waste formation by 48%
                      CJSC «Ostashkov Tannery» project completed at the end of December, 2009
                         allowed to substantially decrease technogenic loading on the environment, e.g.


                                                                                                              39
     Indicator         Delivered Outputs
                           BOD by 92%, trivalent chrome by 83% and waste formation by 87%
                        Although the bankruptcy of JSC «Factory of Secondary Metals and Alloys» did
                           prevented the project to be fully implemented, the partial implementation of the
                           project will
7. Improved
Institutional
Arrangements for
Environmental
Management
(i) Improved              Oblast (Upper Volga) Environmental Management Decision Support System –
management and             approved by Yaroslavl and Kostroma Oblast MNR. Certified by SCEP in 1999
organizational            Methodology for Valuation of Natural Resources and Environmental Damage –
structure for policy       accepted by Client (Ministry of Economic Development and Trade)
and regulatory
                          Inter-Regional Environmental Council for Upper Volga
support
                          Urals Environmental Committee of Sverdlovsk Oblast of Industrialists and
                           Entrepreneurs
                          Upper Volga Environmental Center
                          Urals Cleaner Production Center
                          Urals Regional Center on Environmental Epidemiology
                          Center of Environmental Epidemiology, Moscow
                          Methodological recommendations to determine baselines for carbon emissions in
                           power projects
                          Organizational and financial mechanisms for the preparation and implementation of
                           renewable power sources projects under the targeted federal programs “The South
                           of Russia? and “Energy Efficient Economy?
(ii) Improved             Guidance Document on Environmental and Health Action Plans – utilized in
environmental              Sverdlovsk Oblast
epidemiology and          Methodical Guidelines for the Development and Implementation of Municipal
environmental              Environmental Action Plan
assessment
                          Guidelines on Preparation of Environmentally Sound Investment Projects -
management
                           recommended by MOEDT and State Committee for Construction for use at
structure
                           feasibility studies (design phase)
                          Methodological guidelines on use of sustainable development indicators in the
                           development of oblast and municipal environmental programs to set up
                           environmental priorities
                          Methodological recommendations for economic assessment of forest resources to
                           establish economically justified forest charges and forest use rentals
                          Guidelines on past environmental liability
                          Methodological guidelines on low-cost projects for the enterprises of heat-power
                           engineering, machinery building, ferrous metallurgy, non-ferrous metallurgy
                          Training Guidelines “Cleaner Production: Approaches, Assessment and
                           Recommendations?
                          Guidelines for the introduction of the EMS in agreement with ISO-14001
                          Guidelines for the development and implementation of Municipal Environmental
                           Action Plan
                          Studies of the drinking water quality impact on the gastro-intestinal morbidity in
                           the city of Cherepovets
                          Analysis of dependence between the pollution of atmospheric air and mortality in
                           the cities of Nizhny Tagil and Ekaterinburg
                          Assessment of risk to human health in the city of Upper Pyshma caused by
                           pollution to the environment through the various route of pollution based on the



                                                                                                           40
    Indicator         Delivered Outputs
                          monitoring data
                       Comparative assessment of economic effectiveness of measures to reduce industrial
                          emissions from the JSC “Severstal? in the city of Cherepovets
                       Studies of atmospheric air pollution impact on the incidence of respiratory
                          symptoms and level of maximum volume of the breathed out air of children with
                          and without the signs of respiratory pathology in the city of Nizhny Tagil of
                          Sverdlovsk Oblast
                       Analysis of individual and environmental risks of development of chronic and
                          respiratory pathology of elementary schoolchildren in 9 cities of Russian Federation
                       Studies on macro level estimates of environmental damages in Russia with a case
                          study on environmental costs of fuel-mix change
                       Study on forecast, valuation and conditions of Russia entering the WTO (parts
                          dealing with natural resources and environmental protection)
(iii) New              New national waste classification system compatible with international standards
management and            (Basel Convention) adopted based on EMP and subsequent bilateral initiatives
organizational         Provision of Basel Convention reporting and technical evaluation capacity to MNR
structure for             for meeting international obligations
hazardous waste
                       Adopted and Implemented guidance documents on waste generator registration and
                          inventory (Urals, Rostov)
                       Implementation of comprehensive waste classification system and supporting
                          manual in Urals and Rostov
                       Issuance of guidance documents, formal regulation and enforcement standards for
                          landfills in Urals
                       Implementation of licensing procedures for waste management facilities in Urals
                       Guidelines for co-disposal of waste
                       Guidelines for landfill upgrading
                       Guidelines for Sitting Hazardous Waste Facilities
                       Guidelines for Operation and Management of Waste Disposal Facilities
                       Guidelines for Obsolete Pesticide Management
                       ISO 25 Quality Manual for Environmental Laboratories in Sverdlovsk Oblast
                       Implementation of formal regulatory requirements on waste generator registration
                          and inventory reporting in Urals
                       Implementation of a waste manifest based tracking system in Sverdlovsk Oblast
                       Establishment of waste classification laboratory methods and capacity in
                          Sverdlovsk Oblast
                       Rules on Production and Consumption Waste Management in the Rostov Oblast
                       Waste Facilities and Enterprises Licensing Procedure for the Rostov Oblast
                       Guidelines for Landfill Development for Baltic Region (HELCOM)
(iv) Improved          Modernized national water quality standards and objectives have been developed
management and            but not formally approved by MNR
organizational         National policy on sustainable water use – Approved by the Board of MNR on June
structure for water       23, 1999 (Protocol No 10/1)
quality management
                       Water management policy for Sverdlovsk Oblast – Approved by Oblast
                          Government
                       Agreement between Sverdlovsk and Chelyabinsk Oblasts on shared water use and
                          protection
                       Agreement with Ukraine on water issues in North Caucasus
                       Decision support system for water quality management in the North Caucasus
                       Upper Volga Regional Association of Water Users - the “Clean Water? - founded
                          by the CPPI and municipal enterprises “Vodocanal? of the cities Vologda,



                                                                                                            41
     Indicator         Delivered Outputs
                            Griazevets, Ivanovo, Kostroma, Rybinsk, Tver, Cherepovets, Sharia, Sheksna
                        Agreement on adaptation of the integrated water bodies monitoring system within
                            the Kundruchya river basin has been signed by Chiefs of Administrations of the
                            towns Krasny Sulin, Gukovo and Novoshakhtinsk
                        The Upper Volga Basin Water Management Office an Agreement has been
                            prepared between Vologda, Tver and Yaroslavl oblasts on shared payment for the
                            Rybinsk Reservoir water use for electric power generation
                        Agreements on cooperation between Administrations of the three districts
                            (Borisoglebsky, Rostovsky and Gavrilov-Yamskoy) of Yaroslavl oblast on Basin
                            Council of the Ustie river in Upper Volga region
                        Optimization of the information network of the Yaroslavl Sanitary and
                            Epidemiological Inspection using the information system “EKO? developed by
                            Upper Volga water sub-component
                        Special studies on:
                          -     Water eco-systems in the Ustie river basin
                          -     Clearing and development of the riparian areas in the Koloksha river basin
                          -     Removal of sunk wood from the riparian area (left bank) of the Zhelvata river
                          -     pre-project work to assemble installations for production of hypo-chloride
                                (towns of Kostroma, Ivanovo, Yaroslavl) has been carried out jointly with the
                                “Clean Water? Association
                          -     Leakages in the water supply system of Sharia town
                          -     Experiment on installation of water meters in Sharia town
                          -     Full capacity commissioning of the water treatment facilities in Sheksna
                                settlement
                          -     Preparation of the rationale to incorporate the expenditures for implementation
                                of the Program “Clean Water? into 2001 budget of the Rybinsk Municipal
                                District
                          -     Reorganization of the communal services/utilities of the settlement
                                Nekrasovskoye through giving to Nekrasovskoye water supply and wastewater
                                services the status of an autonomous enterprise. Computerization of the
                                management system
                          -     Splitting of the industrial and municipal water supply of Samet village has been
                                carried out.
                        Methodological recommendations on:
                        -    Assessment of the environmental investment projects
                        -    Assessment of costs and tariffs for services provided by water supply and
                             wastewater utilities
                        -    Preparation of the municipal programs “Clean Water? drinking water supply
                             improvement and water use optimization
                        -    Preparation of the programs for drinking water supply improvement in settlements
                        -    Organization of the initial (preliminary) study of small rivers watersheds
                        -    Short-term water quality objectives to assess a water body condition
                        -    Long-term water quality objectives
                        -    Short-term water quality objectives to assess the Chusovaya river status
                             (Sverdlovsk oblast)
                            Application of GIS-analysis methods for assessment of the human health risk
                             induced by drinking water pollution
(v) Training and        Federal Policy Training Program - training courses on Policy, Law and
upgrading the skills        Epidemiology for more than 120 representatives of 9 regions of the RF
of Russian experts      Environmental Health – 6 formal training courses (135 certified epidemiological
for environmental           professionals), 10 Methodological Seminars (349 Trainees)
management
                        15 working meetings and seminars for Environmental Epidemiology including
                            planning, carrying out and disseminating outputs of the Component



                                                                                                              42
     Indicator          Delivered Outputs
                         Water Sub-component training program - 34 workshops for training and
                             dissemination of the results, 720 specialists trained
                         Training in new waste classification systems in key industries in Urals
                         Hazardous Waste Training - 52 specialists trained
                         Environmental Audit /ISO 14000 Training (HW and Policy Sub-components) – 72
                             specialists trained
                         23 workshops and conferences for training on and dissemination of regulatory
                             system results of HW - 270 specialists trained
                         Training course package “Small river water resources management?
8. Facilitating donor   List of the Donor projects and programs which benefited directly or indirectly from
support of the          various EMP Loan activities, particularly from the work of CPPI component
environmental
sector in Russia        GEF projects
                         GEF: Biodiversity Project (1996)
                         GEF: ODS Consumption Phase Out Project (1996)
                         GEF: Greater Rostov Environmental Strategic Action Plan (1997)
                         World Bank/GEF: Special Initiative on ODS Production Closure (1999)
                         GEF: Dnieper River Basin Project (1999)
                         GEF (PDF-B): Rostov. Reduction of Nutrient Discharges and Methane Emissions
                           (2002)
                         GEF: Regional Baltic Sea Project (2003)

                        TACIS Projects
                         TACIS/EBRD: Environmental Consultants Training Program (2000)
                         TACIS: Institutional Support for SCEP (2000)
                         TACIS/DFID: Support for training programs in Urals Cleaner Production Center
                           (2000,2001)
                         TACIS: Support for Implementation of Environmental Policies and NEAPs in the
                           NIS (2000)
                         TACIS: MNR support in Water Resource Management (2001) TACIS:
                           Harmonization of Environmental Standards (2002)
                         TACIS: Support for Waste Management in Russia (2002)

                        International Financial Institutions
                         World Bank: Sustainable Forestry Pilot Loan (2000)
                         EBRD: Northern Dimension Environmental Partnership (2001)
                         EBRD: Loan for the Yaroslavl Vodokanal (Expansion of Waste Water Plant) based
                            on EMP/NPAF Pre-Investment Studies (2002)
                         NEFCO: North-West Biofuel +

                        Bilateral projects
                         Swiss Grant: Pre-Feasibility Studies and Hazardous Waste Management (1995)
                         Swiss Grant: Co-financing (20%) of 5 NPAF investment projects (1996-2009)
                         Dutch Grant: Integrated Water Resources Management in the Lower Don and Urals
                            (1995)
                         Dutch Grant: Water Supply and Training Center (2001)
                         CIDA: Pechora River Basin Management Project (1995)
                         US EPA: Moscow Water Supply and Water Resources Management Project (1995)
                         UK Know How Fund: Solid Municipal Waste Management Strategy in Pilot



                                                                                                          43
      Indicator           Delivered Outputs
                              Russian City (Rostov) (1998)
                           CIDA: Environmental Management Decision Making Project –CIDA (2000)
                           Baltic-21: Ecoforum Baltica (1999)
                           Baltic 21: Environmental Technologies in St. Petersburg
                           USA Mineral Mining Service and Norwegian Petroleum Directorate: Safety and
                              Environmental Protection for Russian Offshore Oil and Gas Operations
                           CIDA: Dnieper River Project
                           DFID: Ekaterinburg Waste Infrastructure Development Project (2001)
                           DFID: Development of indicators for measuring the sustainability of economic and
                              social reforms in the Russian Federation (2002)

Table A2.2 Environmental Benefits of Implemented NPAF Investment Projects

                   Parameter                   Unit         Before the IP           After         Reduction (-)
                                                                              implementation of   Increase (+), %
                                                                                   the IP
1.      Technical modernization of cardboard production at “Karton?(Novodvinsk, Arkhangelsk region) aimed at
        reduction of energy consumption and atmospheric emissions of harmful substances (1996-1999)
1.1   Mass of emissions with flue gases,                        6652.5                3618.7                 -46
                                              t/year
      inter alia:
               Dimethyl disulfide            t/year             628                    0                   -100
               Methyl mercaptan              t/year             150                    0                   -100
               Dimethyl sulphide             t/year             450                    0                   -100
1.2   Mass of emissions at HPP-1              t/year            1753                  1091                   -38
1.3   Specific value of vapor consumption    Gcal/t of
                                                                 1.89                 1.596                  -16
      at KDM-2                              cardboard
2.      Improvement of environmental situation in Volgograd city through essential reduction of air emissions from
        chemical enterprises "Plastkard" and "Volgogradneftepererabotka" (1998-2006)
2.1   VC production                           t/year            66,912                84,920                +27
2.2   Gross emission from IP objects
                                              t/year            1,285                1,029.3                 -20
      (without combustible gas)
2.3   Emissions of combustible gas            t/year            35,208                  0                   -100
2.4   Emissions of "fat" gas from the
                                              t/year            30,000                  0                   -100
      refinery
2.5   Emission of greenhouse gases from
                                              t/year           143,691                  0                   -100
      IP objects
2.6   Formation of hazardous wastes,
                                              t/year            5,032                 2,040                  -60
      including:
                                                                 700                   364                   -48
      Soot-resin pulp                         t/year
                                                           (0.01 t/t of VC)      (0.004 t/t of VC)
                                                                 540                   396                   -27
      Vat residue of VC rectification         t/year
                                                           (0.008 t/t of VC)     (0.004 t/t of VC)
      Vat residue of ethylene dichloride                        3,792                 1,280                  -66
                                              t/year
      rectification                                        (0.056 t/t of VC)     (0.015 t/t of VC)
2.7   Utilization of chlorine formed at
                                              t/year            40,080                55,155                +38
      OJSC "Kaustik"
3.      Bark-wood waste recovery and reduction of power consumption for cellulose production at the OJSC
        "Solombala PPM? (2000-2005)
3.1   Cellulose production                    t/year           185,720               231,980                +25



                                                                                                                   44
                   Parameter                   Unit         Before the IP              After               Reduction (-)
                                                                                  implementation of        Increase (+), %
                                                                                       the IP
3.2   Gross emissions from the mill, inter                     5,772.5                  7,342                    +27
                                               t/year
      alia:                                               (0.0311 t/t of pulp)    (0.0316 t/t of pulp)
               Methyl mercaptan               t/year            18.3                     2.8                    -85
3.3                                                           267,662.3                142,422.2                 -47
      Emission of greenhouse gases             t/year
                                                           (1.4 t/t of pulp)        (0.6 t/t of pulp)
3.4   Emissions of ashes from fuel
      incineration at HPP-1:
               Coal ashes                     t/year           2,695.1                  577.9                   -79
               Black oil ashes                t/year             4.1                     1.1                    -73
               Wood ashes                     t/year            404.7                   624.5                   +54
3.5                                          compact
      BWW utilization at HPP-1                                 107,136                  366,058                  +342
                                             m3/year
3.6   Black oil consumption at HPP-1           t/year           46,797                  28,333                   +40
3.7   Coal consumption at HPP-1              t/year         83,308                  32,561                 -61
 4.    Reduction in power consumption for cardboard production and utilizations of bark-wood waste in the line of
       bleached deciduous cellulose at OJSC "Arkhangelsk PPM"(2001-2005)
4.1   Cardboard production (KDM-1)             t/year          215,444                  281,431                 +31%
4.2   Gross emissions as a whole at
                                               t/year           69,221                 29,214.9                  -58.8
      Arkhangelsk PPM
4.3   Emissions from HPP-1, inter alia:        t/year           3,670                    1,992                   -46
                                                             (0.017 t/t of            (0.007 t/t of
                                                              cardboard)               cardboard)
      Coal ashes                               t/year           1,426.3                  888.8                   -38
                                                             (0.007 t/t of            (0.003 t/t of
                                                              cardboard)               cardboard)
      Wood ashes                               t/year            94.6                     18.9                   -80
                                                            (0.00044 t/t of          (0.00007 t/t of
                                                              cardboard)               cardboard)
4.4   Emissions from bark boilers of HPP-
                                               t/year            2,649                   1,092                   -59
      3
                                                             (0.0103 t/t of          (0.0007 t/t of
                                                              cardboard)              cardboard)

4.5                                                           2,008,597
      Direct greenhouse gas emissions                                                  1,901,452                 -5.3
                                               t/year         (9.32 t/t of
      from HPP-1 and HPP-3                                                       (6.75 t/t of cardboard)
                                                              cardboard)
4.6                                          compact
      BWW utilization in HPP-3                                 256,668                  325,309                  +27
                                             m3/year
4.7                                          compact
      BWW utilization in HPP-1                                 228,250                  216,142                  -5.4
                                             m3/year
4.8   Specific consumption of thermal         Gcal/t of
                                                                 1.766                   1.195                   32.3
      energy at KDM-1 (HPP-1)                cardboard
5.      Reduction of environmental impact from Kotlas PPM through the replacement of evaporation station" (2002-
        2008)
5.1   Cellulose production                     t/year          874,768                 1,066,853                 +22
5.2   Gross emission at the KPPM,                              22,165                  12,163.4                  -45
                                               t/year
      including:                                          (0.025 t/t of pulp)      (0.011 t/t of pulp)
      Evil-smelling sulphur-containing         t/year            1,645                   382.5



                                                                                                                         45
                      Parameter                     Unit          Before the IP             After             Reduction (-)
                                                                                       implementation of      Increase (+), %
                                                                                            the IP
         compounds                                              (0.0018 t/t of pulp)   (0.0003 t/t of pulp)
 5.3     Emission from evaporation devices          t/year              421                     0                    -100
 5.4     Emissions from SRB                         t/year             2,975                 1,231.6                 -59
 5.5     Wastewater discharge from treatment      million
                                                                       212.8                  143.6                  -33
         facilities of the KPPM                   m3/year
 5.6     Discharge of polluting substances
         with sewage into the Vychegda
         River:
         Recalculated to BOD20                      t/year            10,594                 3,725.8                 -65
         Recalculated to COD                        t/year            88,455                66,680.3                 -25
         Lignosulfonates                            t/year            37,242                15,712.6                 -58
         Suspended matter                           t/year            11,028                 3,229.5                 -71
 5.7     Power consumption                       kW-h/kg of             12                    6.03                   -50
                                                 evaporated
                                                  moisture
 5.8                                                tons of
         Fuel consumption                         reference
                                                  fuel/kg of           0.025                  0.014                  -44
                                                 evaporated
                                                   moisture
 5.9                                             Gcal/kg of
         Heat consumption for evaporation          pulp                0.36                   0.29                   -19

  6.       Reduction of adverse environmental impact on the Upper Volga basin through modernization of basic and
           auxiliary production units and treatment facilities at CJSC "Ostashkov Tannery" (2008-2009)
 6.1     Water intake from the lake for needs
                                                  m3/year            556,360                208,660                  -63
         of the basic production
 6.2      Waste water discharges from the
                                                   m3/year           561,624                208,660                  -63
         basic production
 6.3     Discharge of polluting substances to
         the lake:
         Recalculated to BOD5                       t/year             35.29                   3.0                   -92
         Suspended matter                           t/year             35.76                  19.7                   -45
         Chrome trivalent                           t/year             0.58                   0.099                  -83
 6.4     Generation of production wastes         t/year           5,812.2              672.14                -87
  7.      Environmental enhancement of Podolsk City by modernization of gas purification system of the melting shop of
          the “Factory of secondary metals and alloys?, Podolsk, Moscow oblast (2007-2009)
 7.1        Emissions from melting shop          t/year            70.1                 45.6*               -35*
Notes: * - Presented reductions are forecasts under the project "Factory of Secondary Metals and Alloys" due to changes in the
  economic situation of the enterprise which declared bankruptcy. In March 2010 the basic capital assets of the factory were
  sold to the new owner – OJSC "Permtsvetmet". Realization of liabilities of the enterprise under the Final Loan Agreement is
  regulated by the Federal Law of October 10, 2002, #127-FZ "On the insolvency (bankruptcy)". NPAF ED was informed in
  writing that the new owner plans to use the supplied equipment for its intended purpose.




                                                                                                                            46
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
No economic or financial analysis was performed in the SAR.




                                                              47
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
           Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Roger Batstone             Task Team Leader                      ECSRE
G. Hughes                  Senior Advisor
Alfred Watkins             Senior Economist
T. Garvey                  Water Resources Specialist
J. Kindler
Richard Cooke              Consultant
Gennady Pilch              Counsel                               LEGEC
M. Dickerson
P. Wilczynski              Sr. Environmental Engineer
J. von Rijckevorsel
A. Sajo
V. Voronin
A. Barannik
Vladimir Tsirkunov         Sr. Environmental Engineer            ECCRU
A. Bond
J. Mundy
A. Sfeir-Younis
Hans-Roland Lindgren       Environmental Economist
S. Campello
N. Bouwer
Ken Green                  Environmental Safeguards Specialist
J. Levin                   Consultant

Supervision/ICR
Adriana Damianova          Lead Environmental Specialist         ECSS3
Anna-Maria Bogdanova       Operations Analyst                    ECCU1
Richard J. Cooke           Consultant                            ECSSD
Valencia M. Copeland       Program Assistant                     ECSSD
Galina S. Kuznetsova       Sr Financial Management Specialist    ECSC3
Aziz Mamatov               E T Consultant                        ECSPS
Vassili Rodionov           Consultant                            ECSS3
Vladimir V. Tsirkunov      Senior Environmental Engineer         ECSS3
Alexandre Roukavichnikov   Procurement Specialist                ECSC2

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY93                                     Not available                  574.74
  FY94                                     Not available                  536.80
  FY95                                     Not available                   81.36



                                                                                         48
                  Total:                   1192.90
Supervision/ICR
  FY93                     Not available      0.00
  FY94                     Not available      0.00
  FY95                     Not available     90.67
  FY96                     Not available    134.42
  FY97                     Not available    114.19
  FY98                     Not available     82.30
  FY99                     Not available    137.18
  FY00                        46            125.72
  FY01                        32             88.36
  FY02                        35            166.80
  FY03                        32            156.93
  FY04                        29             92.01
  FY05                        21            124.57
  FY06                        17            101.53
  FY07                        18            137.83
  FY08                        13            128.11
  FY09                        17            111.46
  FY10                        14             99.33
  FY11                        14             97.59
  FY12                          5            17.43
                  Total:     293           2006.43




                                                     49
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable.

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                                   50
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The following is the Summary provided in the Borrower‟s ICR for the NPAF component. The
original report is over 138 pages in length, and the provided Summary best represents the
counterparts‟ views of what was achieved in the NPAF component. The letter from Government
after reviewing this ICR is provided at the end.

Project title                  Environmental Management Project (EMP)
Part B title of the Project    Russian National Pollution Abatement Facility (NPAF)
Project management             NPAF Supervisory Board which includes representatives of:
                                       Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation;
                                       Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation;
                                       Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment of the Russian Federation;
                                       Other participants of NPAF implementation.
Project Implementation         Legal entity "Executive Directorate of the Russian National Pollution Abatement
Unit                           Facility" (NPAF ED)
NPAF Sub-borrowers             DAO "Karton"
                               OJSC "Plastkard"
                               OJSC "Vysokogorsk GOK"
                               OJSC "Fritex"
                               OJSC Bank VTB (earlier – OJSC "Foreign Trade Bank" (Vneshtorgbank)
                               CJSC "Roseximbank"
NPAF Final Borrowers           OJSC "Arhangelsk PPM"
                               OJSC "Solombala PPM"
                               OJSC "Kotlas PPM"
                               OJSC "PP "Pitkyaranta"
                               OJSC "Baikal PPM"
                               CJSC "Factory of Secondary Metals and Alloys"
                               CJSC "Ostashkov Tannery"
Motivation for                 NPAF Supervisory Board decisions on NPAF funds granting for implementation of
granting of                    IPs (dated June 4, 1996, October 5, 1998, May 30, 2001, January 15, 2003,
                               December 21, 2006, March 17, 2008)
investments out of
NPAF funds

                              GENERAL RESULTS OF NPAF IMPLEMENTATION

Preparation IP to financing    599 Investment Proposals on IPs were considered
out of NPAF funds              90 IPs were subject to pre-investment studies
                               39 IPs were approved by the NPAF Supervisory Board for financing
                               6 IPs (at DAO "Karton", at OJSC "Plastkard", at OJSC "Arkhangelsk PPM", at OJSC
                               "Solombala PPM", at OJSC "Kotlas PPM", at CJSC "Ostashkov Tannery")were
                               completely implemented
                               1 IP was partially implemented (at CJSC "Factory of Secondary Metals and Alloys")
Development of IP              Three schemes of IP financing are studied and validated in practice:



                                                                                                        51
financing schemes and              Direct lending (Ministry of Finance Russia – Enterprise),
mechanism for N PAF
funds reinvestment                 Crediting through a financial intermediary (Ministry of Finance Russia –
                                    Participating bank – Final Borrower/enterprise),
                                   Crediting through a financial intermediary (Ministry of Finance Russia –
                                    Participating bank – the Final Borrower/enterprise) with involvement of an
                                    additional financial source – repayment funds out of the NPAF Account.

Volume of funds used       109.6 mln. USD, including 43.8 mln. USD of Loan (38060-RU) and Grant (TF
under the NPAF             20217 and TF 03810) funds.
Volume of funds used for   102.0 mln. USD, including 38.3 mln. USD of NPAF credit resources and 63.7 mln.
financing environmental    USD of equity of enterprises
IPs under the NPAF
Budgetary efficiency of    By the results of NPAF implementation, the total budgetary efficiency of the
NPAF implementation        Program considering expected additional tax revenues in budgets of all levels from
                           enterprises will make about 141.5 mln. USD, including:
                                   137.7 mln. USD (expected additional tax revenues from the enterprises in
                                    budgets of all levels as a result of IP implementation);
                                   3.5 mln. USD (margin of Ministry of Finance of Russia, IP appraisal fee,
                                    interests charged on the part of Sub-Loangranted from the NPAF Account,
                                    fines and fines);
                                   0.3 mln. USD (accrude interests on the residues on bank accounts opened
                                    under the NPAF).
Environmental efficiency    IP implementation under the NPAF has led to reduction in:
of IP implementation               Masses of gross emissions of polluting substances at each enterprise,
under the NPAF
                                   Emissions of greenhouse gases,
                                   Emissions of most toxic evil-smelling sulphur-containing compounds from
                                    PPMs,
                                   Water consumption and water removal at Ostashkov factory,
                                   Discharges of polluting substances into water bodies at Kotlas PPM and
                                    Ostashkov Tannery,
                                   Formation of industrial wastes at OJSC "Plastkard" and Ostashkov Tannery.



                  COMPARATIVE PARAMETERS OF THE NPAF FINANCING PLAN
                                                  Planned        Actual                 Deviation
                                                                             Absolute value     Percentage
  Total amount of NPAF funds, mln. USD,            137.00        109.64         - 27.36            -20.0
  including:
  IFO Funds, mln. USD, including:                   61.30        43.81           - 17.49            -28.5 %

                              Loan 38060-RU         61.30        35.11           - 26.19            -42.7 %
                              Grant TF 20217                      3.00           + 3.00                -
                              Grant TF 03810                      5.70           + 5.70                -
  Funds of the Russian co-financing, mln. USD       75.70        65.83            - 9.87            -11.9 %


                 REALIZATION OF LIABILITIES UNDER SUB-LOAN AGREEMENTS


                                                                                                       52
                                          BY SUB-BORROWERS
                                                             Liabilities of sub-borrowers,             Divergence
                    Sub-borrower                                        000 USD.
                                                              Accrued                Paid        Absolute          %
                                                                                                  value
DAO "Karton"                                                    9,344               9,344           -                -
OJSC "Fritex"                                                       27               27                 -            -
OJSC "Vysokogorsk GOK"                                              97                -                -97      -100
OJSC "Plastkard"                                                8,333               7,030          -1,303          -16
OJSC Bank VTB                                                   23,233              23,233              -            -
CJSC "Roseximbank"                                                  55               55                 -            -
                                               Total:           41,089              39,689         -1,401          -3


                    COMPARATIVE EVALUATION OF PLANNED AND ACTUAL
                        PARAMETERS OF ECONOMIC RESULTS OF IPs
                                           Incomes/economic effect, 000 USD.                     Divergence
         Enterprise realising IP                    Plan                  Result              Absolute          %
                                                                                             value, 000
                                                                                                USD.
 DAO "Karton"                                       3,818                  1,715               -2,103           -55
 OJSC "Plastkard"                                   15,747                13,499              -2,248            -14
 OJSC "Arhangelsk PPM"                               603                  54,926              +54,323         +9,009
 OJSC "Solombala PPM"                               2,508                  4,559              +2,051            +82
 OJSC "Kotlas PPM"                                  6,891                 33,491              +26,600          +386
 CJSC "Factory of Secondary Metals and               777                   226                 -551             -71
 Alloys"
 CJSC "Ostashkovsk Tannery"                         10,333                23,841              +13,508          +131
 Total                                              40,630               132,257              +91,580          +225


           EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY OF NPAF INVESTMENT
              PROJECTS, REALIZED IMPLEMENTED SINCE 1996 THROUGH 2008
                                                     Parameters of IP environmental efficiency
№               Parametr
                                          Units         Before the       After the IP implementation         Efficie
                                                            IP             Forecast           Actual         ncy, %
1.    Modernisation of cardboard production at DAO "Karton" for reduction in energy consumption and
      in harmful air emissions (Novodvinsk, Arkhangelsk oblast) (1996-1999)
1.1   Mass of emissions with flue
                                          t/year                             n.a.             3618.7          45.6
      gases:                                               6652.5
             Dimethyl disulfide                             628            absent             absent         100
             Methyl mercaptan                               150            absent             absent         100
             Dimethyl sulphide                              450            absent             absent         100
1.2   Mass of emissions at HPP-1          t/year             1753            n.a.              1091           37.8
1.3   Decrease in specific norm of       Gcal/t a            1.89             1.8              1.596          15.6



                                                                                                              53
      the consumption of a vapour     cardboard
      at KDM-2
2.    "Reduction in power consumption for cardboard production and utilizations of bark-wood waste in
      the line of bleached deciduous cellulose at OJSC "Arkhangelsk PPM"(2001-2005)
2.1   Cardboard production (KDM-
                                             t/year   215,444                       281,431
      1)
2.2   Gross emissions as a whole at
                                            t/year    69,221          n.a.         29,214.9      57.8
      Arkhangelsk PPM
2.3   Emissions from HPP-1                  t/year    3,670          3,350          1,992        45.7
                                            t/t of
                     Unit parameter                   0.017                         0.007
                                       cardboard
      Coal ashes                        t/year        1,426.3                       888.8
                                        t/t of
                     Unit parameter                   0.007                         0.003
                                      cardboard
      Wood ashes                        t/year         94.6                          18.9
                                        t/t of
                     Unit parameter                  0.00044                       0.00007
                                      cardboard
2.4   Emissions from bark boilers
                                            t/year    2,649          3,142          1,092        58.8
      of HPP-3
                                            t/t of
                     Unit parameter                   0.0103                       0.0039
                                       cardboard
      Ashes of black oil from IP
                                        t/year         2.52                         0.017
      objects
      Wood ashes from IP objects        t/year        369.9                        365.03
                                        t/t of
                     Unit parameter                   0.0014                       0.0012
                                      cardboard
2.5   Direct greenhouse gas
      emissions from HPP-1 and              t/year   2,008,597        n.a.        1,901,452       5.3
      HPP-3
                                            t/t of
                     Unit parameter                    9.32                          6.75
                                       cardboard
2.6                                     compact
      BWW utilization in HPP-3                       256,668       304,400         325,309      126.7
                                        m3/year
2.7                                    compact
      BWW utilization in HPP-1                       228,250          n.a.         216,142       -2.3
                                       m3/year
2.8   Specific consumption of
                                       Gcal/t a
      thermal energy at KDM-1                         1.766           n.a.          1.195        32.3
                                      cardboard
      (HPP-1)
3.    "Bark-wood waste recovery and reduction of power consumption for cellulose production at the
      OJSC "Solombala Pulp-and-Paper Mill" (2000-2005)
3.1   Pulping                          t/year       185,720       200,000          231,980
3.2   Gross emission from the mill      t/year        5,772.5        7,754          7,342        -27.2
                     Unit parameter   t/t of pulp     0.0311        0.0387         0.0316
      Methyl mercaptan                  t/year         18.3          17.5            2.8         84.7
3.3   Emission of greenhouse gases      t/year       267,662.3     279,223.3      142,422.2      46.8
                     Unit parameter   t/t of pulp       1.4           1.4            0.6
3.4   Emissions of ashes from fuel



                                                                                                 54
      incineration at HPP-1,
      including:
      Coal ashes                           t/year      2,695.1     1,752.8         577.9       78.6
                        Unit parameter   t/t of pulp    0.014       0.009          0.002
      Black oil ashes                      t/year        4.1         2.6            1.1        73.2
      Wood ashes                           t/year       404.7       526            624.5       -54.3
                        Unit parameter   t/t of pulp   0.00217    0.00263         0.00269
3.5                                      compact
      BWW utilization at PP-1                          107,136    255,000         366,058      241.7
                                         mz/year
3.6   Black oil consumption at
                                           t/year      46,797      34,777         28,333       39.5
      HPP-1
3.7   consumption of coal at HPP-1         t/year      83,308      29,965         32,561       60.9
4.    "Improvement of environmental situation in Volgograd city through essential reduction of air
      emissions from chemical enterprises "Plastkard" and "Volgogradneftepererabotka" (1998-2006)
4.1   VC production                     t/year        66,912        81,200           84,920
4.2   Gross emission from IP
      objects (without combustible         t/year       1,285        n.a.         1,029.3      19.9
      gas)
4.3   Emissions of combustible gas         t/year      35,208      absent         absent        100
4.4   Emissions of "fat" gas from
                                           t/year      30,000      absent         absent        100
      the refinery
4.5   Emission of greenhouse gases
                                           t/year      143,691     absent         absent        100
      from IP objects
4.6   Formation of dangerous
                                           t/year       5,032                      2,040       59.5
      waste, including:
      Soot-resin pulp                      t/year       700         350             364        48.0
                        Unit parameter     t/t VC       0.01       0.0043          0.004
      Vat residue of VC
                                           t/year       540          n.a.           396        26.7
      rectification
                        Unit parameter     t/t VC       0.008                      0.004
      Vat residue of ethylene
                                           t/year       3,792        n.a.          1,280       66.2
      dichloride rectification
                        Unit parameter     t/t VC       0.056                      0.015
4.7   Utilization of chlorine formed
                                           t/year      40,080      40,000         55,155       37.6
      at OJSC "Kaustik"
5.    "Reduction of environmental impact from the Kotlas Pulp-and-Paper Mill through the replacement
      of evaporation station" (2002-2008)
5.1   Pulping                            t/year     874,768                      1,066,853
5.2   Gross emission at the KPPM,
                                           t/year      22,165      16,012        12,163.4      45.1
      including:
                        Unit parameter   t/t of pulp    0.025                      0.011
      Evil-smelling sulphur-
                                           t/year       1,645       834            382.5       76.7
      containing compounds
                        Unit parameter   t/t of pulp   0.0018                     0.0003
5.3   Emission from evaporation
                                           t/year       421          4.4          absent        100
      devices




                                                                                               55
 5.4   Emissions from a SRB               t/year        2,975          1,255          1231.6       58.6
 5.5   Sewage disposal from
                                        Million
       treatment facilities of the                      212.8          192.0          143.6        32.5
                                        m3/year
       KPPM
 5.6   Discharge of polluting
       substances with sewage into
       the Vychegda River:
       Recalculated to BOD20              t/year       10,594          7,904         3,725.8       64.8
       Recalculated to COD                t/year       88,455         67,366         66,680.3      24.6
       Lignosulfonates                    t/year       37,242          8,003         15,712.6      57.8
       Suspended matter                   t/year       11,028          7,300         3,229.5       70.7
 5.7   Power consumption               kW-h/kg*          12              4             6.03        49.8
 5.8   Fuel consumption                 t.u.t./kg *     0.025          0.015          0.014        44.0
 5.9   Heat consumption for            gkal/kg of
                                                        0.36            0.2            0.29        19.4
       evaporation                       pulp


 6.    "Reduction of adverse environmental impact on the Upper Volga basin through modernization of
       basic and auxiliary production units and treatment facilities at CJSC "Ostashkov Tannery" (2008-
       2009)
 6.1   Consumption of lake water for
                                         m3/year       556,360           504,370      208,660       62.5
       needs of the basic production
 6.2    consumption of sewage from
                                         m3/year      561,624        509,662         208,660       62.8
       the basic production
 6.3   Discharge of polluting
       substances in lake:
       Recalculated to BOD5               t/year       35.29           14.69           3.0         91.4
       Suspended matter                   t/year       35.76           32.16           19.7        44.9
       Chrome trivalent                   t/year        0.58           0.35           0.099        82.9
 6.4   Production wastes                  t/year       5,812.2        5,734.2         672.14       87.1
* For evaporated water



The basic lessons of NPAF implementation are the following:

(1)      The NPAF implementation has shown expediency and feasibility of the "win-win" IP
concept based on economic interest of environmentally unfavorable enterprises. Following this
concept opens a real way for environmental enhancement in Russia in the next 15-20 years. At
the same time, a significant demand for investment funds for environmental projects from
municipal enterprises of housing and communal services, including newly created enterprises for
utilization of production and consumption waste, with remote environmental effect32 could not be
satisfied under NPAF‟s rigid selection criteria. It is obvious that a similar facility should have
more flexibility in IP selection and in their financing conditions; by supplying project
environmental efficiency and stabilization of its impact to the project area‟s environment.


32
   Environmental enhancement of Lake Nero due to its purification from bottom sediments and
organization of low waste manufacture of environmentally sound production from sapropel (OJSC
"Sapropel-Nero", Rostov, Yaroslavl oblast).


                                                                                                   56
 (2)     The majority of enterprises/applicants were incapable of quickly developing high quality
project documentation and according to the international requirements. As a result, the period of
IP preparation, its evaluation and approval was extended to 1.5 – 2 years. Cases took place, when
the enterprise-applicant, in expectation of positive decisions under the project from NPAF SB and
the IBRD, started implementation of separate elements of IP. This led to a necessity to introduce
amendments into Appraisal Reports, lists of environmental conditions for its implementation,
procurement plans and implementation agreements. This decision resulted in the establishment of
official specifications to the structure and content of documentation, satisfying both the criteria of
international organizations and the requirements of the Russian legislation; as well as in
observance of regulations of activities by all Facility stockholders.
 (3)    In the conditions of high economic instability in the country, the IP assessment should
adhere to maximum conservative forecasts and assumptions regarding terms of implementation,
IP budget and its commercial effectiveness. Any delay arising in the course of project preparation
and implementation can contribute to the cost of delay and deviation from planned budgets.
 (4)    Enterprises/applicants should bear responsibility for the actions regarding IPs under the
NPAF. Working with almost 350 applications was terminated in the absence of due activities of
enterprises.
 (5)    Established IBRD procedures for procurement of goods, works and services for IP are
quite acceptable and executable to large Russian industrial enterprises. At the same time,
problems, which can arise at organization and implementation of tenders, registration of
contracts, etc, should not become a "stumbling-block" in IP implementation.
 (6)     It is also extremely important for projects (programs) that are financed out of funds of
international financial institutions have an effective management system with a single responsible
agency at the top and entirely responsible for project results. In the case of NPAF, the removal of
one of the responsible ministries from NPAF management became a barrier to activities of others.
 (7)    The on-lending scheme developed under the NPAF is a financial innovation in Russia.
Given the difficult financial position of industrial enterprises, the environment should not come at
the expense of access to investment funds. The granting of credits at low interest rates promotes
technical modernization, which has direct benefits from emission (discharge) reductions of
polluting substances, utilization of waste, rehabilitation of polluted territories, etc.




                                                                                                   57
Comments received from the Government of Russia on the draft ICR dated February 19,
2012, received before March 28, 2012:

1) Letter of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources to Mr. M. Rutkowski,
   Country Director

Dear Mr. Rutkowski,

The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Russia has reviewed the letter from the
World Bank dated February 24 this year (2012) No 2012-00074/ECCU1 on the completion and
results of the Environment Management Project (COFN-0381OIBRD-38060RU) and informs you
of the following:

We agree as a whole with the conclusions and recommendations regarding the implementation of
the Environment Management Project in the Russian Federation in the part of the competencies
of the Ministry of environment and natural resources of Russia.

We express appreciation to the World Bank for cooperation on the above project and are ready to
continue interaction on new directions within the framework of the current reform of the
environmental legislation in the Russian Federation.

Respectfully
R. R. Gizatulin
Deputy Minister

2) Letter of the Ministry of Economic Development signed by Mr. Boris Morgunov,
   Advisor(email dated March 26, 2012)

FROM: Моргунов Бори? ?лек?еевич <MorgunovBA@economy.gov.ru>
<ambogdanova@worldbank.org>
<ageorgieva@worldbank.org>, <Adamianova@worldbank.org>, <aeremenko@worldbank.org>,
<mgoncharova@worldbank.org>
03/26/2012 06:31 AM
RE: Ка?. Отчета о завершении и результатах (ОЗРП) Проекта управлени? окружающей ?редой
в Ро??ий?кой Федерации (COFN-03810 IBRD-38060 RU)


    Уважаемые коллеги, мне пред?тавл?ет??, что в п. 3.2 целе?ообразно и?пользовать
    материалы приложени? 7 (выпи?ка прилагает??), по?кольку (на мой взгл?д)
    положительные результаты РПОИ в проекте Отчета недооценены.
       ?адею?ь, что ?то полезно.
       Б.?.Моргунов

(MED continued) As stated in Annex 7 – Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on
Draft ICR, basic lessons of NPAF implementation are as follows:

(1)    NPAF implementation demonstrated expediency and feasibility of the "win-win" IP
concept based on economic interest of environmentally unfavorable enterprises. Following this
concept opens a real way for environmental enhancement in Russia in the next 15-20 years. At
the same time, a significant demand for investment funds for environmental projects from
municipal enterprises of housing and communal services, including newly created enterprises for


                                                                                            58
utilization of production and consumption waste, with remote environmental effect33 could not be
satisfied under NPAF‟s rigid selection criteria. It is obvious that a similar facility should have
more flexibility in IP selection and in their financing conditions; by supplying project
environmental efficiency and stabilization of its impact to the project area‟s environment.
 (2)     The majority of enterprises/applicants were incapable of quickly developing high quality
project documentation and according to the international requirements. As a result, the period of
IP preparation, its evaluation and approval was extended to 1.5 – 2 years. Cases took place, when
the enterprise-applicant, in expectation of positive decisions under the project from NPAF SB and
the IBRD, started implementation of separate elements of IP. This led to a necessity to introduce
amendments into Appraisal Reports, lists of environmental conditions for its implementation,
procurement plans and implementation agreements. This decision resulted in the establishment of
official specifications to the structure and content of documentation, satisfying both the criteria of
international organizations and the requirements of the Russian legislation; as well as in
observance of regulations of activities by all Facility stakeholders.
 (3)    In the conditions of high economic instability in the country, the IP assessment should
adhere to maximum conservative forecasts and assumptions regarding terms of implementation,
IP budget and its commercial effectiveness. Any delay arising in the course of project preparation
and implementation can contribute to the cost of delay and deviation from planned budgets.
 (4)    Enterprises/applicants should bear responsibility for the actions regarding IPs under the
NPAF. Working with almost 350 applications was terminated in the absence of due activities of
enterprises.
(5)     The established IBRD procedures for procurement of goods, works and services for IP
are quite acceptable and executable to large Russian industrial enterprises. At the same time,
problems, which can arise at organization and implementation of tenders, registration of
contracts, etc, should not become a "stumbling-block" in IP implementation.
 (6)     It is also extremely important for projects (programs) that are financed out of funds of
international financial institutions have an effective management system with a single responsible
agency at the top and entirely responsible for project results. In the case of NPAF, the removal of
one of the responsible ministries from NPAF management became a barrier to activities of others.
(7)     The on-lending scheme developed under the NPAF is a financial innovation in Russia.
Given the difficult financial position of industrial enterprises, the environment should not come at
the expense of access to investment funds. The granting of credits at low interest rates promotes
technical modernization, which has direct benefits from emission (discharge) reductions of
polluting substances, utilization of waste, rehabilitation of polluted territories, etc.


(MED continued)

From the Implementation Completion and Results Report of the National Pollution
Abatement Facility




33
   Environmental enhancement of Lake Nero due to its purification from bottom sediments and
organization of low waste manufacture of environmentally sound production from Sapropel (OJSC
"Sapropel-Nero", Rostov, Yaroslavl oblast).



                                                                                                   59
NPAF LESSONS (CONCLUSIONS)

NPAF reviewed 599 (five hundred and ninety nine) investment proposals. Out of these, 90
(ninety) investment proposals were selected for implementation of pre-investment studies,
including 39 (thirty nine) IPs that were approved by the NPAF Supervisory Board for funding
under NPAF, 6 (six) IPs that were fully completed, and 1 (one) IP that was partially implemented.
All completed projects allowed achieving the expected environmental benefits.

Total disbursement under NPAF amounted to $109.6 million, including loan (38060-RU) and
grant (TF 20217/TF 03810) proceeds of $43.8 million. The total amount of borrowings taken to
finance environmental IPs under NPAF was $106.0 million, including $38.3 million of NPAF
credit resources and $63.7 million of enterprises‟ equity.

Based on NPAF implementation outcomes, the total fiscal efficiency of the Facility, with due
regard for expected additional tax revenues from enterprises to the budgets of all levels, would be
$142 million.

Three (3) IP financing schemes were elaborated in detail and tested in practice in the process of
NPAF implementation:
     Direct lending (Russian Ministry of Finance Russia – Enterprise);
     Lending through a financial intermediary (Ministry of Finance Russia – Participating
        Bank – Final Borrower/Enterprise); and
     Lending through a financial intermediary (Russian Ministry of Finance – Participating
        Bank –Final Borrower/Enterprise) with the involvement of an additional financial source,
        i.e. repayment funds out of the NPAF Account.

Therefore, NPAF basically implemented its major tasks formulated in various Agreements.

Basic lessons of NPAF implementation are as follows:

(1)      NPAF implementation demonstrated expediency and feasibility of the "win-win" IP
concept based on economic interest of environmentally unfavorable enterprises. Following this
concept opens a real way for environmental enhancement in Russia in the next 15-20 years. At
the same time, a significant demand for investment funds for environmental projects from
municipal enterprises of housing and communal services, including newly created enterprises for
utilization of production and consumption waste, with remote environmental effect34 could not be
satisfied under NPAF‟s rigid selection criteria. It is obvious that a similar facility should have
more flexibility in IP selection and in their financing conditions; by supplying project
environmental efficiency and stabilization of its impact to the project area‟s environment.

(2)     The majority of enterprises/applicants were incapable of quickly developing high quality
project documentation and according to the international requirements. As a result, the period of
IP preparation, its evaluation and approval was extended to 1.5 – 2 years. Cases took place, when
the enterprise-applicant, in expectation of positive decisions under the project from NPAF SB and


34
   Environmental enhancement of Lake Nero due to its purification from bottom sediments and
organization of low waste manufacture of environmentally sound production from sapropel (OJSC
"Sapropel-Nero", Rostov, Yaroslavl oblast).



                                                                                                60
the IBRD, started implementation of separate elements of IP. This led to a necessity to introduce
amendments into Appraisal Reports, lists of environmental conditions for its implementation,
procurement plans and implementation agreements. This decision resulted in the establishment of
official specifications to the structure and content of documentation, satisfying both the criteria of
international organizations and the requirements of the Russian legislation; as well as in
observance of regulations of activities by all Facility stakeholders.

(3)     In the conditions of high economic instability in the country, the IP assessment should
adhere to maximum conservative forecasts and assumptions regarding terms of implementation,
IP budget and its commercial effectiveness. Any delay arising in the course of project preparation
and implementation can contribute to the cost of delay and deviation from planned budgets.

(4)     Enterprises/applicants should bear responsibility for the actions regarding IPs under the
NPAF. Working with almost 350 applications was terminated in the absence of due activities of
enterprises.

(5)     The established IBRD procedures for procurement of goods, works and services for IP
are quite acceptable and executable to large Russian industrial enterprises. At the same time,
problems, which can arise at organization and implementation of tenders, registration of
contracts, etc, should not become a "stumbling-block" in IP implementation.

(6)      It is also extremely important for projects (programs) that are financed out of funds of
international financial institutions have an effective management system with a single responsible
agency at the top and entirely responsible for project results. In the case of NPAF, the removal of
one of the responsible ministries from NPAF management became a barrier to activities of others.

(7)     The on-lending scheme developed under the NPAF is a financial innovation in Russia.
Given the difficult financial position of industrial enterprises, the environment should not come at
the expense of access to investment funds. The granting of credits at low interest rates promotes
technical modernization, which has direct benefits from emission (discharge) reductions of
polluting substances, utilization of waste, rehabilitation of polluted territories, etc.




                                                                                                   61
3) Letter of the Ministry of Finance signed by Mr. Bokarev, Director of Department of
   International Finance (dated March 23, 2012)




                                                                                  62
63
                                 MOF’s comments (translated)
                          Re.: the Environmental Management Project
                         Implementation Completion and Results Report


        - page 2, paragraph 3:
        The Report refers to data from some studies to estimate the cost of depletion of natural
resources in the USSR. In view of subjective nature of such estimates, we deem it appropriate to
exclude respective wordings from the text.
         - page 3, paragraph 1, the last sentence:
         In our opinion, this description of the Russian political and economic reality is not
directly related to the matter of the Report and has a touch of subjectivity and even prejudice, to
some extent. We deem necessary to avoid such essentially controversial judgements in project-
specific documents like this one.
         - page 14, paragraph 2 from the beginning of section 2.2:
We deem it incorrect to assert that the Government of the Russian Federation was not “providing
resources to client agencies?. In accordance with the legislation of the Russian Federation,
allocations from the federal budget should be made available on the basis of requests from the
responsible federal executive authorities for these or those purposes provided there is a feasibility
study or a regulatory justification for such expenditures. As far as we know, the failure to utilise
the project products was accounted for by the fact that the stakeholder agencies did not have
adequate environmental programs to earmark funding for, rather than by a refusal to provide such
resources.
        - page 14, paragraph 3 from the beginning of section 2.2:
In our opinion, it is necessary to delete the first sentence of this paragraph, which attributes to the
financial system reform such characteristics as “a complexity and variability of government
financial management requirements?. With respect of this sentence, it should be also noted that
requirements of the Government of the Russian Federation cannot be imposed because they are
legally binding, and as such, must be met, among other things, during the implementation of
projects supported by international financial institutions.
         - page 15, paragraph 5:
We propose to revise the wording: “The MOF announced unwillingness to be a lender of record?
to make it more specific, reading as follows “With a view to reducing the risks for the federal
budget, the MOF adopted the decision to involve major Russian banks with government shares to
act as financial intermediaries for the NAPF implementation?.
         - page 16, paragraph 4:
In addition to the previous comment, we propose to revise another sentence, which is the last one
in this paragraph because in its present wording, it makes an impression that one of the reasons of
the delays was the compliance of the Project Implementing Entities with the Russian budget and
civil legislation. In the meanwhile, the additional supervision and risk insurance turned out to
quite justified, taking into account lack of experience in implementing projects like the NPAF in
the Russian Federation.
        - page 19, paragraph 1 in the Results of NPAF component section:
There are several comments to be made, including those pertaining to facts. First of all, we deem
it important to note in this section that the operational arrangements (concept) for the NPAF as a
revolving fund („NPAF Account‟ according to the Russian terminology) were not thoroughly
elaborately originally. The adoption of the new Budget Code in 1998 did not affect the operation
of the NPAF Account under the project owing to the legislative waivers for projects of


                                                                                                    64
international financial institutions. At the same time, upon final closure of the NPAF on April 20,
2010, and upon completion of required supervisory activities, the funds from the NPAF Account
were channeled to the federal budget as revenue in the middle of the year 2010, in full
compliance with the Russian budget legislation.
         - page 19, the last paragraph:
We cannot agree with the following statement: “Preparation activities did not make progress due
to institutional slowness and impasse in the procurement of consultant services prior to EMP
closure in June 2011?. In our opinion (which was also expressed in our official correspondence
with the Bank during the respective period), there was no progress in the preparation of the
project for Elimination of Past Environmental Liabilities in the Russian Federation due to the
MNR's failure to make required administrative steps and it was that very failure which made it
impossible to start the preparation of the above referred project.




                                                                                                65
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                                                    66
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Implementation Completion Report of the Russian National Pollution Abatement Facility,
   Russian Federation, Environment Management Project, Moscow, 2010.

Implementation Completion Memorandum (ICM) for the Swiss Grant for Co-financing
   Environmental Investments under the NPAF Component of the Environmental
   Management Project (EMP) (TF03810)




                                                                                   67
             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.               70°N                                 80°N                                                                                                                       80°N                                                   UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                A RCT IC                                                 O CEA N
             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bering St
             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ra
                                                                            Nor wegian Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               it
                                                                                                                                                                                          0     200            400 600 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     60°N
                NETH.                              NORWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ra
                                DENMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r
                                                                                                                                                                                          0            200              400          600 Miles                                                                             y
                                                                                                                  B a r e n t s         Franz Josef                                                                                                                                                                     da
                                                               SWEDEN                                                                                                                                                                                                East Siberian                                An
             GERMANY                                                                                                 S e a                    Land
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sea                                                                      Anadyr
                                                                                                                                                                      Severnaya                                                              New Siberia
                                                                                                                                                                         Zemlya                                                                Islands
                                                                                                       Murmansk              Novaya
                                        RUSSIAN                         FINLAND
                                          FED.                                                                               Zemlya
                          Kaliningrad                                                               Kola                                                                                                                      Laptev
                                                             ESTONIA                                Pen.                                         Kara          Sea                                                             Sea
                                                    LATVIA




                     POLAND
                                           LITH.




                                                                                     Karelia
                                                                                                                                                                                                              la
                                                                                                                                                                                                     insu                                                                    In
                                                                          St. Petersburg                                                                                                       Pen                                                                                di




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kolyma
                                                              Pskov                                                                                                                   m   yr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ange
                                                                                                                                                                                  Tay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   g irka
                                                                                   Petrozavodsk Arkhangel'sk
                                                                      Novgorod                                                                                                                                                                                    Che
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rskiy
                                    BELARUS                                                                           Nar'yan Mar                                                                                                                                                  Ran




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kolmya R
                                                                                                                                              Yamal                                                           ga                                                                            ge
                                                                                                                                                                                                          a                        wland




                                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                         Smolensk Tver                                                                         Pen.                                                  at                       Lo
                                                                                 Vologda                                                               Gyda                                     Kh             Siberian
                                                              MOSCOWYaroslavl          Kotlas                                       Vorkuta            Pen.
                                          Bryansk Kaluga
                           UKRAINE                                                                             s.
                                                                       Kostroma                                                      Salekhard
                                           Orel                      Ivanovo                  Syktyvkar                     Ob




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Le
                                                                                                                  t
                                                   Tula          Vladimir




                                                                                                                M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              na
                                     Kursk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Magadan
                                                           Ryazan       Nizhny Novgorod                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Petropavlovsk-


                                                                                                               al
                               Belgorod       Lipetsk
                                                                                     Kirov                                                                                                                Central                                                                                                                                     Kamchatskiy
                                                                                                           Ur
                                      Voronezh                Cheboksary      Yoshkar-Ola
                                                  Tambov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Okhotsk
                                                                   Saransk Kazan'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sea of
                                                        Penza                       Izhevsk                                                                                                           Siberian




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      °N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Yakutsk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Range
                                                                                              Perm'                           Khanty-
              Black




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
                                                            Ul'yanovsk
                                                                                                                              Mansiysk                                                                                                                                                                                         Okhotsk
                                    Rostov-
               Sea                  on-Don                R. Saratov                                                                          We s t                                                      Plateau                                          a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    dzhur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Len




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         en
                  Krasnodar                                              Samara       Ufa          Yekaterinburg                                                                                                                                                             d
                     Maykop
                                                   Volgograd                                                                                                                                                                                                            Al
                               Stavropol                                                                    Tyumen                             r
                                                                                                                                        S i b eO i a n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dzhug
                                                                                          Chelyabinsk
                                                                                                                                                   b




                                                                                                                                                                         Ye n
                                          Elista                            Orenburg                      l
                Gora El'brus    Cherkessk                                                              bo
                                                                                                     To Kurgan                                Plain




                                                                                                                                                                              i
                 (5,633 m)




                                                                                                                                                                           sey
                                Nal'chik          Astrakhan r a
                                                                      l




                                                                                                                                                                                          Angara
                                                                U




                     Vladikavkaz Nazran




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ur
                                                                                                                         Omsk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Am
                     GEORGIA             Groznyy                                                                                                       Tomsk
                                            Makhachkala                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yuzhno-
                                               Sea




                                                                                                                                     Novosibirsk              Kemerovo            Krasnoyarsk                                                                                                                                                          Sakhalinsk

                      AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                                       Novokuznetsk                                                                  Lake
                                           ian




                                                                                                                                         Barnaul                                                                                                                  Blagoveshchensk                                       Khabarovsk
                                                                                                                                                                          Abakan                                                    Baikal                                                       Birobidzhan
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ust' Ordynskiy
                                         sp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Chita
                                                                                                  K A Z A K H S TA N
                                        Ca




                                                                 UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                   Irkutsk         Ulan Ude




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     li n
                                                                                                                                                        Gorno-                                                                                  Aginskoye




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ote-A
                                                                                                                                                        Altaysk                    Kyzyl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          °N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      40
                                               RUSSIAN FEDERATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sikh
             ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                    MONGOLIA                                       CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Vladivostok


                      PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sea of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Japan
                                                              OBLAST CENTERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D.P.R.                                               J A PA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF
                                                              FEDERAL CITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KOREA
                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF
                                                              RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KOREA
                                                              MAIN ROADS                                                                                           RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                 FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                                            °N
                                                              RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 39156
MARCH 2012




                                                              OBLAST, KRAI, REPUBLIC, AUTONOMOUS
                                                              OBLAST, OR AUTONOMOUS OKRUG BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                       90°E                                                                                  110°E                                           120°E                                                     130°E
                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                           100°E
