Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T7580-ANG
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED GRANT
OF SDR 24 MILLION (UJS$ 33 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
FOR AN ANGOLA EMERGENC Y
DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECI'
March 7, 2003



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(exchange rate effective as of January 31, 2003)
US$1 = 65 Kwanza (Kw)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADRP        Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program
AIDS        Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BNK         Basic Needs Kit
CNRSPDD     National Commission for the Social and Productive Reintegration of the
Demobilized and Displaced
DC          Discharge Center
DRC         Democratic Republic of Congo
FAA         Armed Forces of Angola
FMU         UNITA Military Forces
HIV         Human Irnmunodeficiency Virus
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IEC         Information, Education and Communication
IGA         Income-Generating Activity
ILO         International Labor Organization
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IRSEM       Institute for the Socio-Professional Reintegration of Ex-Combatants
JMC         Joint Military Commission
MDRP        Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program
MDTF        Regional Multi-Donor Trust Fund
MINARS      Ministry of Assistance and Social Reinsertion
MINPLAN     Ministry of Planning
MPLA        Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
PDO         Pre-Discharge Orientation
PRGF        Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QA          Quartering Area
SEAR        Special Subsidy for Reintegration Support
SMP         Staff Monitored Program
TSN         Transitional Safety Net
UCAH        Humanitarian Assistance Coordination Unit
UN          United Nations
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
UNITA       National Union for the Total Independence of Angola
VCT         Voluntary Counseling and Testing
Vice President                Callisto Madavo
Country Director              Darius Mans
Task Team Leader              Johannes Zutt



Contents
I          B ackground and Strategy ................................                                1
1.1     CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CONFLICT ................................... I
1.2     ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT ................................... 2
1.3     GOVERNMENT RESPONSE AND STRATEGY ................................... 6
1.4     INTERNATIONAL RESPONSE .................................... 9
2 IDA Response and Strategy                                      ..                                10
2.1     REGIONAL MULTI-COUNTRY PROGRAM FOR DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION .............. 10
2.2     POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY ..................       ................................................ 11
2.3     RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT ......................     ............................................ 13
2.4      LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS IDA ASSISTANCE ............................................. ..................... 14
3     The Angola Demobilization and Reintegration F'rogram ...................................................... 16
3.1     ELIGIBILITY CRrrERIA .................................................................. 16
3.2     OBJECTIVES ..................................................................           17
3.3     COVERAGE AND IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD ..................................................................   17
3.4     PROGRAM COMPONENTS .................................................................. 19
3.4.1. Demobilization ................................................................... 19
3.4.2. Transitional assistance ..................................................................  22
3.4.3. Reintegration ...................................................................    23
3.4.4. Economic reintegration ..................................................................  25
3.4.5. Social reintegration ..................................................................  29
3.4.6. Special target groups ..................................................................  30
3.4.7. Reintegration implementation arrangements        ............................................. 33
3.4.8. HIV/AIDSprevention and mitigation measures         ............................................ 36
3.5     PROGRAM COST .................................................................. 37
3.6     CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS .................................................................. 39
4     Studies and Technical Assistance ............................................................  39
4.1      STUDES .................................................................. 39
4.2 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE .                                                                     40
5     Institutional Arrangements and Program Implementation           .        ................................. 41
5.1 INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE .                                                                  4 1
5.1.1. Central level              ..                                                        41
5.1.2. Provincial level             ..45
5.1.3. Community level               ..45
5.1.4. Staffing, institutional support and capacity building  ..46



5.2        FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AuDrrING ..................................... 47
5.2. 1. Financial Management and Procurement Unit          ..................................... 47
5.2.2 Financial management risks .....................................                         47
5.2.3 Staffng .....................................                                           47
5.2.4 Reporting .....................................                                         48
5.2.5 Flow offunds .....................................                                      48
5.2.6 Audit requirements ......................................                               49
5.3        PROCUREMENT .....................................                                        50
5.3.1. Procurement capacity assessment ..................................... .                50
5.3.2. Organizational structure            ....................................... 50
5.3.3. Procurement plan ......................................                                52
5.3.4 Advertising .....................................                                       52
5.3.5 Procurement arrangements ...................................... 52
5.3.6 Review by the Bank .....................................                                55
5.4 MONITORING AND EVALUATION .56
5.5     PROGRAM SUSTAINABELITY ........................                                          57
6     Benefits and Risks .......................                                                    58
6.1      BENEFITS ........................                                                       58
6.2     RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES .......................................................    58
6.3     ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTS .......................................................  59
7     Financial and Economic Justification ...................................................      60
Attachment 1:     Summary Program Costs               .................................. . 62
Attachment 2:     ADRP Beneficiaries              ..................................... 63
Attachment 3:     A Comparison of Transitional Safety Nets .          .................................... 64
Attachment 4a: IRSEM      Overall Organizational Structure .         ...................................... 65
Attachment 4b: IRSEM      Organizational Structure/BDM&E .             ................................... 66
Attachment 5:     Program Implementation Plan .................................................. 67
Attachment 6:     Social and Environmental Safeguard Arrangements                 .     .      68
MAP - IBRD No. 24288



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex
The Republic of Angola
Emergency Demobilization ancl Reintegraotion Programn
1     Background and Strategy
1.1   Circumstances of the Conflict
1.    The liberation struggle: The Portuguese first settled Angola in 1475 and, with one
brief exception, maintained control until 1975. The liberation struggle started in 1961,
when the Movimento Popular de Liberta do de Angola (MPLA), founded five years
earlier, attacked a Luanda prison. In 1962, a second nationalist entity, the Frente
Nacional de Liberta,do de Angola (FNLA), began to fight a guerrilla war in northwest
Angola. In 1966, the MPLA, with military assistance from the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics (USSR), began to infiltrate Cabinda from Congo and eastern Angola from
Zambia. Around this same time, a third nationalist force, the Unido Nacionalpara a
Independencia Total de Angola (UNITA), began to build support with the help of the
Government of Rhodesia.
2.    Independence and conflict: Despite the efforts of these nationalist movements,
Portugal retained firm control of Angola until April 1974, vvhen the Movi'mento das
For,as Armadas (MFA) seized power in Lisbon and decided to relinquish the colonies.
In January 1975, Portugal, the MPLA, the FNLA and UNIT'A signed the Alvor Accords,
which created a representative transitional government for Angola, but this government
quickly collapsed as the Angolan factions each attempted to achieve supremacy before
independence. Civil war erupted, prompting a rmass exodus of some 340,000 Portuguese
settlers (then 5% of the population) and virtually all technical and managerial expertise.
An economic crisis resulted almost immediately. At the same time, fighting rapidly
escalated as foreign sponsors were drawn into the war, with Cuba supporting the MPLA,
and South Africa, the United States (US) and Zaire supporting the FNLA. and UNITA.
On Independence Day (November 11, 1975), control of Angola was divided: Agostinho
Neto's MPLA held Luanda and other urban areas, while Jonas Savimbi's UNITA, with
its power base in Huambo, held large parts of the rural south and east. Following the
collapse of the FNLA in 1976, the MPLA gradually secured control over most of the
country.
3.    The Bicesse Accords and their failure: A first attempt at achieving peace began
in December 1988, when Angola, Cuba and South Africa signed the New York Accords,
under which the foreign powers agreed to withdraw troops from Angola. A few years
later, in May 1991, the MPLA and UNITA signed the Bicesse Accords in Portugal,
which called for multiparty legislative and presidential elections. But when Savimbi lost
the first round of the 1992 presidential elections to MPLA President Jose Eduardo dos
Santos (who had succeeded Neto on the latter's death), he took the counlry back to war.
Having used the Bicesse Accords to regroup and rearm, UNITA made inaccessible to the
Government a large extent of the national territory), but after a siege of Kuito ended
unsuccessfully with 15,000 fatalities, UNITA went back oII defensive. Responding to



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        2
UNITA's abandonment of the peace process, the United Nations (UN) imposed sanctions
against its arms and fuel trade in 1993.
4.    The Lusaka Accords and their failure: A second attempt at peace began in
November 1994, when the MPLA and UNITA signed the Lusaka Accords, under which
UNITA agreed to demobilize and join a Government of Unity and National
Reconciliation. This government was formed in April 1997, in the context of a UN
peacekeeping operation that reached 7,500 at its height. Demobilization was initiated,
and by late 1998, some 175,500 soldiers had been demobilized, of which about 102,500
also had received reinsertion benefits in the form of one or more of three expected cash
payments. Despite this progress, Savimbi avoided Luanda and low-level fighting
continued, and, as a result, new UN sanctions were imposed on UNITA. In December
1998 the Lusaka Accords collapsed when heavy fighting resumed, and by mid- 1999,
UNITA had reasserted control over much of the countryside. That September, the
Government army recaptured Savimbi's headquarters in Bailundo and Andulo, and by
mid-2000 the war had reached a new stalemate, with UNITA a weaker but persistent
guerrilla force continuing to destabilize non-strategic rural areas.
5.    Peace since the April 4, 2002, Memorandum of Understanding: On February 22,
2002, Government forces killed Jonas Savimbi in combat near Luena, capital of Moxico
province, and on March 14, 2002, the Government began to observe a unilateral
ceasefire. After several weeks of intense negotiations, the opposing armies signed a
formal ceasefire agreement on April 4, 2002. The agreement, which takes the form of a
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) Addendum to the Lusaka Protocol, provides for:
(i) the passage of an Amnesty Law for all crimes committed during the conflict;' (ii) the
integration of 5,047 UNITA ex-combatants into the Armed Forces of Angola (FAA) and
the national police; and (iii) the demobilization of the remaining UNITA military forces
(FMU) within a specified timetable. In a separate undertaking, the Govemment has also
agreed to the demobilization, in the medium-term, of 33,000 FAA. As of January 2002,
the ceasefire agreement had not been violated; some 84,000 FMU had been quartered and
formally integrated into the FAA (as of August 2, 2002, the FMU formally ceased to
exist); and provincial governments, with occasional assistance from the FAA, were
transporting ex-FMU and their families to their chosen areas of resettlement under the
supervision of a civilian authority, the National Commission for the Social and
Productive Reintegration of the Demobilized and Displaced (CNRSPDD).
1.2   Economic and Social Impact
6.    The prolonged conflict in Angola has had a profound impact on all aspects of
social and economic life. It has contributed to the mismanagement of natural resources,
widespread poverty, corruption, postponed elections, and regional destabilization,
creating a legacy which Angola will overcome only with many years of sustained
economic effort in a context of peace and national reconciliation.
' The Under-Secretary-General and Special Advisor for Africa, who witnessed the signing of the MoU,
formally declared that the United Nations (UN) objected to and did not recognize the amnesty provision.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Anner             3
7.    Mismanagement of natural resources: Although Angola has large mineral
deposits, high agricultural and fishing potentia], and good prospects for irrigation and
hydroelectric power, economic performance in agriculture, manufacturing and commerce
is currently very poor and well below levels achieved before independence (see Table 1).
Oil revenues have risen sharply since 1969 from almost zero to as mucb as $5 billion in
1996, yet per capita income has fallen to one-half of the level realized at independence, to
about $500 today. Over the past 35 years, widespread insecurity, macrceconomic
mismanagement, the post-independence loss of technical and managerial capacity, and
the economic impact of 'Dutch disease',2 has resulted in the collapse of economic activity
in all sectors except subsistence agriculture and the enclave oil and diamond sectors. As
a consequence, the non-mineral economy-and in particular economic activity that is
asset-intensive and involves high transaction costs-has virtually disappeared as a
contributor to national output and a source of foreign exchange. Whereas in 1966 more
than 80% of Angola's exports were composed of nine commodities, by 1990 oil
accounted for 93% of the total and diamonds for 6%; all other export commodities had
Table1: GD? CompositionO er Time (%)             disappeared. Today the
S6etoi   ;   -      -!-,',,'' 1966  1970  1987  1996  Angolan economy is
Agriculture, forestry and fisheries  14.2  9.0  12.6  7.5  heavily dependent on
Mining (oil and diamonds)      6.3  10.7  51.0  59.9  imports and highly
Manstucturion                  8.7  10.7   3.7   6.8  vulnerable to terms-of-
Construction                   6.3   7.3   2.5   32 2    d  hcsrsligfo
Electricity and water          0.9   0.9   0.3   0.0  trade shocks resulting from
Transport and telecommunications  6.3  5.9  2.7  0.   fluctuations in oil prices (in
Commerce                      34.0  30.3   7.2  148T  both 1985-86 and 1998 a
Banldng and insurance          2.8   3.3   1.4   0.0  sudden drop in oil prices
Services                      20.4  21.8  18.6   7.8  put pressure on the
Total GDP                     100.0 100.0 100.0 lo0o0  Government's
Sources: World Bank and International Monetary Fun'   ability to service-its debt).
8.    Poverty: Since the start of the conflict in 1975, some 750,000 Angolans, or 7%
of the population, have died from conflict-related causes, including conflict-induced
famine or disease; of these, some 346,000 were military fatalities and 404,000 civilian
fatalities. As of February 2002, some four million Angolans were intemally displaced
persons (IDPs) and another 445,000 were refugees (25,000 in Namibia, and about
210,000 in each of Zambia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)); by end-
2002, some 120,000 refugees and 1,100,000 IlDPs had returned to their areas of origin,
with an average rate of return holding steady at about 10,000 persons per day.
2Booming oil exports raise labor costs as well as spending on goods and services, with the result that
tradeables, whose prices are determined in the world market and so are relatively fixed, become less
competitive. The visible adverse consequence is typically a sharp contraction in the production of
traditional exports and import-competing commodities.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                    4
Areas Accessible to International Agencies
before 4 April 2002
LUANDA       2      Y     LUNDA NORT 
<  at_>       <- ~~~~LUD SUL ,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~itA 
Source: OCHA
9.     Although the conflict settled into a low-level war of attrition in 2000, the
economy still has the characteristics of a war economy, and all key social indicators are
very poor. Limited access by the international humanitarian community to populations
in need has doubtlessly contributed to these poor results to date (see Figure 1). Angola
ranks 13'h from the bottom on              Table 2: Millennium Development Goals
UNDP's Human Development Index                         (latest available, WB or UNDP)
for 2002, having fallen to a rating of
0.403 from 0.422 in 1999. Life         Eradicate extreme poverty
expectancy is low; school enrolment     Population living below $ 1/day (%):  --
rates are low; and infant and child     Children underweight:               42
Achieve universal primary education
mortality rates are extremely high.     Net primary enrolment ratio:        34
The Millenium Development Goals         Literacy rate (15-24 years old, %):  42
are distant (see Table 2). Food        Promote gender equality
security has been precarious as able-   Female literacy rate (15-24 years old, %):  28
bodied males were conscripted into     Reduce child mortality
Under-five mortality (per 1,000):  295
the armed forces, crops were raided     Infant mortality (per 1,000):      172
or destroyed, and input delivery       Improve maternal health
systems collapsed. Public health        Maternal mortality rate:            --
was and remains poor, although         Combat HIV/AIDS and other diseases
some preventative measures (child       Adult HIV/AIDS prevalence (%):       2
Malaria prevalence and death rate:  --
immunization and anti-malarial          TB prevalence and death rate:      --
spraying) have been undertaken;        Ensure environmental sustainability
population migration and                Access to safe water (%):           38
concentration have spread infectious    Access to imoroved sanitation (%):  44



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                   5
disease; key infrastructure, including water supply systems, has been destroyed; and
qualified health care professionals have left their posts for better jobs elsewhere, making
underfunded clinics and hospitals increasingly less effective.
10.    Corruption: The availability of substantial oil and diamond revenues combined
with the introduction of a market economy in a conflict environment created tremendous
opportunity for corruption, which in turn helped to establish wealth among the political
elite. Privileged access to state contracts, regulatory agencies, foreign partnerships, elite
health and education facilities, privatized state assets (fromn commercial farms to urban
businesses to housing stock), and subsidized grant and foreign currency (the latter
enabling beneficiaries, in a highly inflationary environment, to profit risklessly from
arbitrage) enriched a few at the expense of the many. It also resulted in a hugely
inefficient allocation of resources; high levels of consumption rather than investment; and
a business culture characterized by favoritism, kickbacks, connected transactions, and
other distortionary and non-transparent practices that even well-intentioned and
experienced international companies find difficult to control today.
11.    Elections: As a result of the conflict, the advent of multiparty democracy has
been slow and incomplete in Angola. A first opening occurred following the signing of
the Bicesse Accords, which provided for the restoration of government administration in
UNITA-controlled territory as well as multiparty legislative and presidential elections.
Unfortunately, the Accords were never fully implemented: the UN was unable to
establish control and elections occurred in September 1992 in a still-militarized context.
When the first round of the Presidential elections gave Dos Santos 49.6 percent of the
vote against Savimbi's 40.1 percent, Savimbi alleged fraud and returned to war.
12.    The second attempt to achieve peace fared poorly as well. The Lusaka Accords,
signed in November 1994, called for a new ceasefire, UNITA participation in
government, and establishment of a UN peacekeeping force.3 Although by April 1997
the 70 UNITA deputies elected in the 1992 elections had joined the naltional assembly,
creating for the first time since independence an institutionalized opposition to the MPLA
(which held 129 seats), Savimbi avoided Luanda and low-level fighting continued. As a
result, new UN sanctions were imposed on UNITA, and in September 1998 a dissident
faction of UNITA broke away from Savimbi. New elections, due since 1996, have been
repeatedly postponed, though the peace process now underway may result in appropriate
conditions being established in the next 12 to 18 months. In August 2001, President Dos
Santos announced that he will not run for President again.
3UNAVEM I was established in 1989 and supervised the withdrawal of Cuban troops from Angola.
UNAVEM II was established in June 1991 to verify the Bicesse peace agreement, including the 1992
elections, and it continued to operate with a limited mandate until 1995. UNAVEM III was established in
February 1995 to implement an expanded mandate under the Lusaka Protocol; the peacekeeping force by
1996 comprised some 7,500 civilians and troops. Following the scheduled withdrawal of UNAVEM troops
in early 1997, the United Nations Observer Mission in Angola was established in July 1997. The collapse
of the Lusaka Accords in December 1998 led to a furdter reorganization of the UN, which in October 1999
established its United Nations Office in Angola (UNOA). Most recently, in June 2002, UNOA negotiated a
new (six-month) mandate, providing for a limited UN observer presence of about 30 people, including 10
military observers, in what was known as the United Nations Mission in Angola (UNMA).



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        6
13.   Regional destabilization: Angola has been a major player in many conflicts in the
greater Great Lakes region. In particular, the Government of Angola was allied with the
government of Denis Sassou-Ngeusso in Congo (Brazzaville); when the new Congolese
government of Pascal Lissouba allied itself with UNITA in 1995, the Government
provided troops in support of Sassou-Ngeusso, which proved decisive in the 1997 and
1998/99 wars. Angola also intervened in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC),
helping to install the government of Laurent Kabila. Angolan participation in regional
conflicts is reflected in part in the fact that some 680 troops in the ex-FMU quartering
areas are from the DRC or Rwanda; in addition, at the peak, some 445,000 Angolan
refugees lived in the DRC, Namibia, or Zambia.
14.   The resolution of the conflict in Angola is seen as a major contributor to stability
in the greater Great Lakes region. Angola is participating in the regional peace process
through its agreement to the Lusaka Cease-Fire Agreement. Angola is a credible and
respected military force in sub-Saharan Africa and President Dos Santos recently has
taken an active role in promoting peace within the region. In August-September 2002, he
brokered an agreement between President Kabila of the DRC, and President Museveni of
Uganda, under which the two Presidents agreed to the normalization of relations,
including a timeline for the total withdrawal of Ugandan troops from the DRC. In
addition, there are currently preliminary talks underway, under Angolan sponsorship,
between the DRC and Rwanda.
1.3   Government Response and Strategy
15.   Since the signing of the Bicesse Accords, the Government has been pursuing a
dual strategy of military and diplomatic offensiveness on the one hand, and reconciliation
on the other, in its efforts to encourage UNITA forces to lay down their arms.
Throughout the 1990s the Government continually used diplomatic channels to isolate
UJNITA politically and, during times of open conflict, it also exploited military
opportunities to maximal advantage. At the same time, it pursued various avenues for
demobilizing and reintegrating UJNITA combatants into civilian life.
16.   The Gabinete Inter-Ministerial de Apoio aos Desmobilizados das Forcas
Armadas (the Armed Forces Office for Support to Demobilized Soldiers, or GIADA) was
formed following the Bicesse Accords, which mandated the demobilization of both
Government and UNITA troops and the subsequent formation of a unified armed force
for Angola, the FAA. This exercise was managed by the Angolan military, with the
second United Nations Verification Mission (UNAVEM II) having only a very limited
mandate of monitoring and verification. UN records indicate that 175,553 soldiers were
demobilized throughout the Bicesse process.
17.   In 1995, following the signature of the Lusaka Protocol, GLADA was reorganized
and renamed the Instituto de Reintegracdo Socio-Profissional dos Ex-Militares (the
Institute for the Socio-Professional Reintegration of Ex-Combatants, or IRSEM), though
its basic mandate remained unchanged. The Lusaka Protocol provided for varying
demobilization processes for FAA and UNITA troops and for the establishment of a



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         7
unified national armed force of 90,000, to be comprised of FAA troops (reduced from an
estimated 115,000 to 63,700) and UNITA troops (reduced from an estimated 76,000 to
26,300). Excess troops were to be confined to barracks (FAA) or to quartering areas
(QAs) (UNITA) within a period of three months and then demobilized over a period of
18 to 24 months. Following quartering and disarmament, UNITA troops were to be
moved into FAA barracks and subsequently demobilized or integrated into the FAA.
UNAVEM was given responsibility for disarmament, verification and monitoring and the
UN's Humanitarian Assistance Coordination Unit (UCAH) responsibility for the
humanitarian support programs and coordination of the demobilization to reintegration
phase, although responsibility for reintegratiorn coordination was later moved to UNDP.
18.   In practice, quartering began a year after the Lusalca Protocol was signed (the first
quartering areas were established in November 1995), and although demobilization was
expected to last for only five months, it actually took some two years to complete.
Delays resulted in part from technical difficulties in preparing the reinsertion payments
and in-kind kits that each soldier was to receive upon demobilization. In addition, the
selection of UNITA troops for integration into the FAA proceeded slowly, with the result
that excess troops intended for demobilization could not be identified. It was also widely
believed that UNITA was delaying demobilization to negotiate better representation in
the Government of National Unity and inflating UNITA numbers to obtain assistance for
party loyalists (UNAVEM reported that only half of the 75,000 UNITA soldiers
identified for demobilization knew how to dismantle a weapon). With the scheduled
withdrawal of UNAVEM troops approaching, the Joint Commission in February 1997
prepared a Rapid Demobilization Plan which called for closure of the QAs to be complete
within five months; in the event, the last QA was closed on November 10, 1997.
19.   The UNDP-supported ServiVo Comunitario de Riferincia (SeCoR) project,
implemented between 1995 and 1998, was a lcey element in the Government's
demobilization and reintegration strategy. (This project was co-financed by the
Government, UN agencies, and nine donors through a UNDP-administered trust fund.)
In May 1999, UNDP published an evaluation of SeCoR that found that the program had
recorded some achievements but also suffered some significant shortcomings. The
primary achievements of the program are considered to be the demobilization of 34,782
soldiers, of whom about 8,500 were disabled and 3,500 were underage;4 the payment of
at least one tranche of the subsidio especial do apoio de reintegra ao (Special Subsidy
for Reintegration Support, or SEAR) to most ex-combatants; and the referral of a
significant number of ex-combatants to education and employment opportunities. It is
generally agreed that SeCoR was compromised by external political and financial factors.
Persistent insecurity following the Lusaka Accords and the resumption of open hostilities
in December 1998 impeded the Government's ability to reduce the overall size of the
armed forces in Angola. Military expenditure was not revduced-but in fact increased to
unprecedented levels in 1998 and 1999-and donors responded by cutting back their
4 This achievement should be measured against a target group estimated by the UN's Humanitarian
Assistance Coordination Unit to be 72,000. As a consequence of increasing insecurity, demobilization
centers were closed in December 1997, yet an additional 2,800 or so UNITA ex-combatants were
registered and demobilized in situ through August 1998 under the s.o-called "open file" mechanism.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex           8
financial assistance to the program. The resulting lack of financial resources limited the
program's ability to provide adequate reintegration assistance to demobilized ex-
combatants and many were abandoned in mid-stream, having received none or only part
of the assistance to which they were entitled.
20.   In addition, SeCoR was also hampered by significant internal technical and
management shortcomings. Strengthening of implementation capacity was not focused
on IRSEM, the national agency designated to lead the process of reintegrating ex-
combatants, but on a parallel structure established by the United Nations (the United
Nations Office for Project Services, or UNOPS). In addition, inadequate pre-
demobilization counseling generated unrealistic expectations among ex-combatants, and
the SEAR payment process experienced many delays and irregularities (including non-
payment, double payment, and pa Zment to unentitled persons) and was eventually
abandoned due to a lack of funds. In addition, essential technical assistance was not
forthcoming and donors were not adequately appraised of implementation progress.
21.   From the SeCoR experience, the Government has learned the following lessons:
(i)   Demobilization needs to target combatants on all sides of the conflict and
offer similar levels of reintegration assistance to each individual, irrespective
of former military affiliation, to support national reconciliation and avoid
creating resentment among the excluded;
(ii)  A strong implementing agency is critical to ensuring necessary planning,
coordination and implementation at the technical level, and capacity building
to support implementation should be directed to the responsible government
agency rather than to a parallel ad hoc structure;
(iii)  Focused pre-demobilization information, counseling and referral services
should be provided to ex-combatants in order to manage their expectations;
(iv)  Economic reintegration assistance should seek to link ex-combatants with
broader, community-based economic recovery and rehabilitation efforts, and
should seek to avoid actions that would be perceived as privileging ex-
combatants in comparison with other war-affected populations;
(v)   A robust financial management system is needed to manage reinsertion
payments in a timely and transparent manner;
(vi)  A comprehensive management information system is essential to ensure
proper application of eligibility criteria and to inform the decision-making of
the coordinating and implementing agencies; and
(vii)  The mobilization of timely and sufficient donor financial assistance and strong
donor coordination are critical.
5 Of the 34,782 ex-combatants eligible to receive the SEAR benefits, only 20,710 received the second
SEAR payment and only 8,375 received the third and final SEAR payment; about one-half of the estimated
$65 million to be paid was actually paid. In addition, some 21,000 received the complete food benefit
(divided into two or three portions).



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex.      9
22.   As a result of its experience to date, the Government has concluded that a
redesigned demobilization and reintegration program is needed, and it has asked the
World Bank to lead the redesign effort, provide financial assistance, initiate international
resource mobilization efforts, and coordinate donor support under the MDRP.
23.   Guiding principles. The Government has adopted the following guiding
principles for the ADRP:
(i)   In keeping with the political commitment which the Governrent made in
signing the April 2002 MoU in Luena, assistance will target ex-combatants
created by the MoU (i.e. new caseload ex-combatants formerly affiliated with
UNITA or the FAA) and will focus on the provision of social and economic
reintegration assistance (see especially Annex 4 of the MoU);
(ii)  In the interest of national reconciliation, the AD)RP will target all new
caseload ex-combatants, irrespective of previous military affiliation;
(iii)  To ensure consistency and fairness, all assistance to new caseload ex-
combatants would be provided through one national ADRP;
(iv)  The ADRP would allow ex-combatants voluntarily to choose their
communities of re-settlement and their paths to economic reintegration;
(v)   Reintegration assistance would seek to foster community participation;
(vi)  IRSEM as the coordinating agency of the AD"P will rely oni existing
institutional structures to the extent possible in order to build sustainable
capacities beyond the program's duration; and
(vii)  Pension and social security issues for ex-FMU and ex-FAA will be addressed
outside the ADRP, in accordance with their respective terms and conditions of
service.
24.   Target groups. Following the signing of the April 2002 MoU, the Government
envisages the demobilization and reintegrationi of some 105,000 ex-FMU and 33,000
FAA. The inclusion of UNITA ex-combatants in the ADRP is considered an important
national reconciliation measure. A successful demobilization and reintegration program
would demonstrate that UNITA members can return to a secure and peaceful life in
Angola.
1.4   International Response
25.   Direct assistance in Angola. In general, the international community supports
Government efforts towards the demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants in
Angola. International partners believe that a new demobilization and r eintegration effort
in Angola would result in the spontaneous resettlement of many IDPs in the rural areas
and consequently recovery of the rural economy, which is likely to make a permanent
contribution to poverty reduction in Angola. Donors have welcomed the rapid and
voluntary quartering of UNITA ex-combatants as an important signal of Government and



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       10
UNITA commitment to national reconciliation and to the national and regional peace
processes.
26.   Through their participation in the Multi-country Demobilization and
Reintegration Program (MDRP) and bilaterally, many partners have indicated that they
would approve financial contributions to the ADRP. In addition, representatives of many
donors and partners, including DFID, GTZ, USAID, ILO, OCHA, UNDP, UNDPA,
UNPKO, and UNICEF, have formally participated in some or all of the ADRP
preparation missions. Even so, several donors have indicated that their support to the
ADRP will be linked to increased Government transparency regarding public financial
management, further clarity concerning the Government's plans for the security sector, a
net reduction in the size of the FAA, and a substantial Government contribution to
financing the ADRP. The Government has given related assurances to IDA.
27.   Links to the greater Lusaka Process. The international community is actively
engaged in the implementation of the Lusaka Cease-Fire Agreement relating to the peace
process in the greater Great Lakes region. Paragraph 22 of the Lusaka Cease-Fire
Agreement stipulates that "countries of origin of members of the armed groups, commit
themselves to taking all the necessary measures to facilitate their repatriation". The
ADRP would go beyond this provision by providing targeted reintegration assistance to
returning FAA and ex-FMU ex-combatants. Consequently, the ADRP would form an
essential part of the Government of Angola's implementation of the Lusaka Agreement
and complement the Disarmament, Demobilization, Reintegration, Resettlement and
Repatriation efforts of the United Nations Organization Mission to Congo (MONUC).
The Bank is in close contact with MONUC and other parts of the UN system including
UNDP to ensure coordination and complementarity of activities both in Angola and in
other countries involved in the greater Great Lakes conflicts.
2     IDA Response and Strategy
2.1   Regional Multi-Country Program for Demobilization and Reintegration
28.   Building on a variety of country-level initiatives, and in consultation with
governments in the region and donor and UN partners, the Bank has prepared a greater
Great Lakes regional strategy for demobilization and reintegration as well as a Multi-
country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP) and related trust fund. The
regional strategy and MDRP provide a comprehensive framework in support of
individual country-level programs, such as the ADRP. The MDRP was endorsed by the
Executive Board of the World Bank in April 2002.
29.   The multi-country umbrella approach of the MDRP has several key advantages,
including the facilitation of feedback relationships among country programs in the
region; the creation of synergies that would enable the MDRP to have a greater impact
than individual country programs could have; the provision of similar incentives for all
parties to the conflict to pursue peaceful strategies; the ability to address the regional



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex          I I
externalities associated with some individual programs; enhanced transparency of
closely-related country programs; and the facilitation of knowledge-sharing and training
across national programs.
30.   The Bank-administered MDRP Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF ) serves as a
vehicle for mobilizing and channeling donor financing; reducing transaction costs for
client governments, donors .and the Bank; and enabling Governments to complement IDA
financing with grant resources. Angola is one of the nine countries included in the
MDRP and accordingly eligible for financial assistance under the MDTF.6
2.2   Poverty Reduction Strategy
31.   Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Pap)er (I-PRSF). Recognizing the legacies of
the conflict, including high numbers of IDPs and the destruction of much social and
economic infrastructure; the structural constraints related to land, demography,
agriculture and human resources; and institutional weaknesses in the public and private
sectors as the key challenges to medium-term socio-economic transformation, the draft
interim PRSP proposes actions which can be summarized along five broad themes:
(i)   Strengthening support to the formulation of economic policy;
(ii)   Strengthening public sector capacity and institutions, including at the
provincial and local levels (through restructuring and deconcentration), and
with particular attention to the judicial system;
(iii)  Expanding the human capital base, by strengthening and resliucturing
professional training as well as the delivery of health and education services;
(iv)  Rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure, concentrating on water
supply, housing, electricity, transportation and communication (with
accelerated demining programs to accompany these efforts); and
(v)   Promoting pro-poor growth through rural development, promotion of artisanal
fishing, and support to small and micro enterprises.
32.   The draft interim PRSP also contains elements of a program of consultations with
civil society, a summary of interventions at the sectoral level, and a preliminary
monitoring and evaluation strategy, but the required three-year macroeconomic
framework is not yet available. In light of the ceasefire agreement, the interim PRSP is
being revised to focus on a few areas where real improvements can be made quickly.
33.   At the same time, within the framework of the Interim PRSP, the Bank and other
donors are helping the Government to prepare an emergency Post-Conflict
6The nine beneficiary countries are Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, Congo, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Namibia, Rwanda, Uganda and Zimbabwe. As of December 2002, ten donors had
committed funds to the MDTF. These include: Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands,
Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the European Communi1}y.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex            12
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Program (PCRRP), for presentation to the international
community in early 2003. This emergency program will be implemented over 2003 to
2005, with prioritized interventions expected to occur in the areas of social reinsertion,
water supply, health services, education, transportation, and electricity, among other
areas. A follow-up program, expected to be based on the full PRSP and implemented
over 2006 to 2010, will be prepared with assistance provided under the PCRRP. It is
widely understood that a demobilization and reintegration program cannot in and of itself
stabilize the country, and that reconstruction efforts on a large scale are also needed to
achieve and maintain economic stability.
34.    The ADRP is being designed to conform to and enhance the objectives outlined in
the PRSP and the overall post-conflict reconstruction program. The ADRP forms one of
the core programs of the Government's poverty reduction strategy.
35.    The Bank Group 's current portfolio and strategy for Angola. The Bank's
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), which covers the period March 2003 to June 2004
and is being presented to the Board together with the ADRP, aims to help the
Government to achieve macroeconomic stability and support the implementation of a
pro-poor post-conflict public expenditure program (see Table 3).
Table 3: The Bank's Transitional SuipoP t Strategy
Pillar                     AAA                        Lending Products
Enhancing the transparency,  *  Country Procurement   *  Economic Management
efficiency, and credibility of  Assessment Review        Technical Assistance
public resource management  *  Public Expenditure        (EMTA), $17 million
Management and Financial
Accountability Review
*  Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) Study
*  WBI capacity-building
Expanding service delivery to  *  CSR Study           *  ADRP, $33 million
war-affected and other vulnerable  *  WBI capacity-building  *  Social Action Fund 3
groups                                                   (FAS3), $55 million
*  HIV/AIDS, $20 million
Preparing the ground for broad-  *  Country Economic Memo.
based pro-poor economic growth  *  Oil Revenue Management
Study
*  Country Framework Report
(CFR) on Infrastructure
*  CSR Study
*  WBI capacity-building
36.   The goals of the TSS reflect the Government's priorities as stated in the interim
PRSP and in the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program. These goals
can only be met if each one of the TSS components - Analytical and Advisory Activities
(AAA) and lending - are treated as an integral part of the Bank's package of support.
The TSS places heavy emphasis on AAA, with a particular focus on transparency and
governance issues, as well as on the enabling environment for broad-based growth. This



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      13
AAA will help the Bank and the Government to rebuild its stock of knowledge, which is
essential to guiding Angola's future development program. The proposed AAA will also
include customized capacity-building activities provided by the World Bank Institute
(WBI). To increase the Bank's effectiveness on the ground, the strategy involves
reappointing a Country Manager and recruiting a Senior Operations Officer in Luanda.
2.3   Rationale for IDA Involvement
37.   The Government's request for technical and financial assistance for the ADRP
has come at a critical time in the Angolan peace process. IDA's involvement is justified
by its considerable experience with such prograns, the scale of resources required, the
focus of the program on sustainable economic reintegration of ex-combatants, and the
need for IDA to be responsive to a client request: to lead ancl coordinate international
support for a critical stability-enhancing operation with strong regional implications.
Furthermore, IDA's involvement is logical given the Bank's lead role in the MDRP and
the fact that the ADRP fits within that framework. IDA support would complement the
activities of other international stakeholders in Angola and the region.
38.   Needfor emergency assistance. The emergency is the extraordinary event of
limited duration which started in late 1998, when the Lusak.a Accords broke down
definitively and the country returned to war, and ended on April 4, 2002, when the
feuding armies signed a ceasefire agreement in Luena. Since then, there have been no
serious violations of the ceasefire and some 15,000 ex-FMIJ troops have returned to
civilian life. The application of the Bank's emergency procedures under OP 8.50 is
justified on the basis of the following criteria:
(i)   Impact on economic priorities and investment programs. A successfully
implemented ADRP would help achieve stability in Angola as well as in the
greater Great Lakes region, thereby supporting macroeconomic stability and
increasing the scope for development work and for private investment. The
conflict has left Angola with a challenging legacy, which can only be
overcome in a context of lasting stability. Moreover, a key component of this
stability must be a structured demobilization of Angola's ex-combatants,
which in the short term remain the largest threat to progress.
(ii)  Frequency. There have been no major violations of the ceasefire agreement
and there is general agreement that the peace can be consolidated and that
Angola will not return to war, provided that activities such as a demobilization
and reintegration program are rapidly and effectively implemented.
(iii)  Urgency. Some 105,000 ex-FMU ex-combatants have been quartered across
the country and officially integrated into the FAA and they are now awaiting
reintegration support.7 Urgent measures are needed to handle this large new
caseload of ex-combatants in a structured manner. Failure to act rapidly and
7About 5,000 ex-FMU personnel were integrated into the FAA (5,000) and 47 into the national police.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       14
professionally risks widespread residual banditry, perpetrated by disgruntled
ex-combatants. Such banditry can be as disruptive to social and economic
recovery as full-fledged conflict.
(iv)  Prospectsfor reducingfuture hazards. Discontented ex-combatants could
pose a threat to social stability. At the same time, lack of reintegration
support may contribute to a stalling of the peace process, not only in Angola
but also in the greater Great Lakes region. Angola has been a major player in
several sub-regional conflicts, including in Congo and the DRC; and several
neighboring countries, including Congo, DRC, and South Africa, have
intervened in the Angolan conflict.
(v)   Expected economic benefits. By helping to finance the reintegration of ex-
combatants into civilian life, thereby easing some of Angola's human capacity
constraints, the ADRP will provide the Government with additional means to
help achieve social and economic recovery. Because ex-combatants are
expected to be widely dispersed throughout the country, these resources will
also be injected into the rural economy in the areas of ex-combatant return,
forming a significant stimulus to the local economy.
39.   The Country Team reviewed possible alternative financing mechanisms for the
ADRP, but found that none are available. IDA currently has only one project under
implementation in Angola: the second Social Action Fund, a $33 million credit that is
two-thirds disbursed. Hence funds are not available in the Bank's current Angola
portfolio to cover emergency demobilization and reintegration needs. The Angolan
reform program remains in its infancy, so conditions for an adjustment operation do not
exist at this time. An Emergency Recovery Credit appears to be the only Bank
instrument that would allow the Bank to support the activities which must be done at this
critical juncture to achieve economic stability in Angola.
2.4   Lessons from Previous IDA Assistance
40.   IDA has gained substantial experience from a number of demobilization and
reintegration programs it has supported in Africa and elsewhere. Such assistance has
often taken the form of technical and/or financial support through investment credits,
budget support programs or reallocations from ongoing projects. Based on information
from these operations, a review of relevant experiences in selected African countries, and
evaluations completed by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED), the
fol!owing best practices were identified and integrated in Program design.
41.   Demobilization. This phase is short but logistically complex. The successful
implementation of demobilization activities is a precondition for the subsequent provision
of targeted transitional and reintegration assistance. Key demobilization activities
include the distribution of non-transferable ID cards, the collection of socio-economic
data, and the establishment of a database on the beneficiary population.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         15
42.   Transitional assistance. Experience suggests that newly demobilized ex-
combatants are usually in a vulnerable financial situation until they can generate income.
During this period, ex-combatants require transitional assistance to cover their families'
basic material needs. The objective of this transitional support is to enable the ex-
combatants to return to their community and to sustain themselves and their families for a
limited period immediately following demobilization.
43.   Economic reintegration. Ex-combatants are often an economically vulnerable
group as they lack marketable skills, material assets and social networks. In addition,
they are often a high-risk group due to their familiarity with weapons and violence.
Where this is the case, targeted support is advisable to help them establish sustainable
livelihoods. In order to be relevant and cost-effective, such assistance should be tailored
to their socio-economic profile and adjusted to the economic environment.
44.   In general, ex-combatants should receive no more support than is necessary to
help them attain the general standard of living of the cornmunities into which they
reintegrate. Furthermore, reintegration assistance should be limited in time to avoid the
creation of a dependency syndrome. Information, counseling and referral (ICR) services
can assist ex-combatants to assess their optiolns and find employment. Apprenticeships in
the informal sector combine the benefits of vocational training and employment and are
thus preferable to training alone. Micro-projects can help ex-combatants secure their
economic independence and self-employment, but they are also complex interventions
that require significant administrative capacity and a stable market environment.
45.   Ultimately, ex-combatants are reintegrated into a broader economic context. The
creation of viable long-term employment oppiortunities for ex-combatants is closely
linked to private sector growth and associated employment generation.
46.   Social reintegration. Social reintegration is often eased by the support of an
extended family network. Therefore, ex-combatants shcould be encouraged to reintegrate
in the vicinity of their extended families. Informal networks of ex-coinbatants are
important elements to successful economic and social reintegration. E fforts to provide
assistance to ex-combatants' communities of return can offer incentives for collaboration
and acceptance, thereby strengthening social capital. Underage ex-combatants should be
reunified with their families wherever possible and assisted to resume their education.
Disabled ex-combatants commonly require specialized medical and economic assistance.
47.   Care should be taken to prevent the stigmatization of ex-combatants as unfit for
military service or as conveyers of disease and violence. Community sensitization and
information efforts are paramount in this regard. The fears of communities related to the
return of ex-combatants should also be addressed.
48.   Institutional issues. Program coordination by orie civilian agency with overall
program responsibility, balanced by decentralization of implementation to regions and
communities, has proven to be critical to successful program implementation. Where
possible, existing implementation capacities should be leveraged. The employment of
ex-combatants as counselors and field staff can facilitate reintegration.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         16
3     The Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program
3.1   Eligibility Criteria
49.   The ADRP is part of the Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration
Program (MDRP) for the greater Great Lakes region. Under the MDRP, the following
criteria need to be fulfilled for a country to be eligible to receive assistance for the
demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants:
General criteria
(i)   Affected by conflict. Being involved in or directly affected by one or more of
the conflicts in the greater Great Lakes region.
(ii)  Participation in the regional peace process. Demonstrated willingness to
contribute to stability in the greater Great Lakes region and to implement
relevant provisions of the applicable peace/ceasefire accord(s).
Country-specific criteria
(i)   Preparation of a national demobilization and reintegration program as a
result of the conflict(s). This would typically be demonstrated by a coherent
national program developed in consultation with the international community
and national stakeholders. It could also be demonstrated by having a strategic
planning and consultation process underway, with a clear roadmap and
timetable.
(ii)   Establishment of a suitable institutional structure. The government would
establish flexible implementation arrangements with significant planning,
coordination and monitoring capacity and with appropriate participation of
relevant political and security stakeholders.
(iii)  A letter of demobilization policy outlining government commitment. The
Government would draft a letter in which it outlines its commitments to the
regional peace process, demobilization and reintegration, security sector
reform and fiscal impact of demobilization.
(iv)  Establishment of appropriate safeguards andfiduciary measures. The
government would provide assurances and monitoring measures to ensure
consistency with standard environmental and social safeguards. In addition,
the government would establish satisfactory financial management and
procurement arrangements.
50.   The Government of Angola has fulfilled all general and country-specific criteria
and therefore be eligible to receive financial assistance under the MDRP through IDA
and the regional MDTF.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex      17
3.2   Objectives
51.   The overall objective of the ADRP would be to help consolidate economic
stability in Angola and in the greater Great Lakes region. The two principal objectives of
the program would be: (i) to demobilize up to an estimated 105,000 UNITA and 33,000
FAA ex-combatants and to help support their return into civilian life; and (ii) to facilitate
the reallocation of Government expenditure from military to social and economic sectors.
52.   The ADRP is expected to have a significant impact on reducing poverty in
Angola by: establishing more secure conditions in the rural areas and so encouraging
IDPs to resume productive lives in the rural economy; freeing up additional national
resources for investment in social and economic sectors; investing in the human capital of
ex-combatants; and enhancing the implementation capac:ity of community-based
development organizations.
3.3   Coverage and Implementation Period
53.   Target groups. The Government envisages the following target groups for the
ADRP:
(i)   The demobilization and reintegration of an estimated 105,000 former
combatants of the UNITA military forces (ex-FMU);
(ii)  The demobilization and reintegration of 33,000 FAA soldiers; and
(iii)  The provision of specialized assistance to female, disabled and underage ex-
combatants.
54.   The Government has worked with the ex-FMU and the Joint Military
Commission (JMC) to verify the status of persons claiming to be ex-FMU combatants.
The Government has verified the eligibility of former ex-FMU combatants on the basis of
the following general criteria:
(i)   Angolan nationality;
(ii)  Self-identification of combatant status; and
(iii)  Confirmation of military affiliation by FMU officers.
55.   By August 2002, 85,585 FMU had been registered in the QAs, verified, and
integrated into the FAA for administrative purposes prior to their demrobilization. On
August 2, 2002, the FMU were legally disbanded. In accordance with the MoU of April
4, 2002, 5,000 FMU were also integrated into the FAA and 47 into the national police
force for the longer term. The remaining ex-FMU are expected to be demobilized from
the FAA under the ADRP. The Government estimates that an additional 20,000 ex-FMU
soldiers (composed of disabled soldiers, soldiers captured in the months prior to the
Luena agreement, and soldiers belonging to isolated units that were unable to join the
demobilization process) will join the program. As of early January 2003, the FAA was
identifying and verifying the eligibility of these additional combatants to enter the ADRP.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         18
56.   In accordance with a Government decree that is being drafted, FAA soldiers to be
demobilized are those who: (i) exceed 10 years of active service; (ii) are disabled; (iii)
have reached the age of retirement; or (iv) are 35 years of age or older and were
registered in the armed services but were not called upon to serve. The identity of FAA
ex-combatants would be verified using their military ID card and/or discharge letter.
57.   The Government is working with the International Committee of the Red Cross
(ICRC) and the governments of the DRC and Rwanda to facilitate the repatriation of an
estimated 680 ex-combatants who originate from these countries. The repatriation and
reintegration of these forces may, if required, be financed under the MDRP as a special
project.
58.   The reintegration of approximately 138,000 ex-combatants poses particular
challenges in Angola, a vast landmine-littered country which has known conflict almost
without interruption since independence in 1975. Most Angolans suffered extensively
from the disease, misery and poverty that the conflict created. Recognizing the scope of
the Angolan reconstruction challenge, the ADRP will take care not to turn ex-combatants
into an overly privileged group among the many other vulnerable groups in the country
(including IDPs, refugees, and old caseload ex-combatants). At the same time, the
program recognizes that meaningful transitional and reintegration support for ex-
combatants is necessary for the Government to fulfill its commitments under the Luena
MoU and to reduce the risk of negative social and economic impacts that could
potentially undermine national stability.
59.   Geographical coverage. Reintegration activities will focus on those areas to
which ex-combatants return, and will be provided within the broader framework of
community-based reintegration and recovery assistance that would also target other war-
affected Angolans. The resettlement pattern of future ex-combatants is expected to focus
on five provinces - Benguela, Bie, Cuanza Sul, Huambo, Huila and Malanje.8 Thus, the
program would initially focus on building implementation capacity for reintegration
activities in these areas, though ex-combatants in other areas would be equally eligible
for assistance.
60.   Duration. The Program would be implemented over a period of three years. The
planned Program completion date is December 31, 2006.
8 According to current and earlier socio-economic data an estimated 70% of ex-FM7U forces originate from
these provinces.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex            19
3.4    Program Components
61.    The ADRP would contain four components9:
(i)    Demobilization;
(ii)   Reintegration;
(iii)  Assistance to special target groups; and
(iv)   Institutional development and program implementation support.
3.4.1 Demobilization
62.    All ex-FMU with the exception of 5,047 will be legally discharged from the FAA
under the Program. In the demobilization phase, combatants would legally regain their
civilian identity. Demobilization modalities would be adapted to the different
demobilization environments of the encamped former FM1J and the FAA. The
Government would ensure that the demobilization procedures are consistent and
equitable. The objective of the demobilization component of the ADRP will be to
facilitate FMU and FAA ex-combatants' transition to civilian life in a secure and
structured process.
63.   Demobilization of ex-FMU: The demobilization of FMU ex-combatants is taking
place from the QAs established following the signing of the Luena MoU. The FAA has
assumed primary responsibility for the demobilization process, and is currently
completing essential registration, identification and data collection activities and assisting
in the transportation of ex-FMU to their areas of resettlement. The humanitarian
community has provided critical food and non-food relief assistance to ihe Family Areas
and some non-food assistance to the QAs. IRSEM has designed and is providing pre-
and post-discharge orientation counseling in the QAs and in areas of resettlement.
64.   Demobilization of FAA soldiers: Upon the completion of its ongoing strategic
threat assessment, the FAA will initiate the demobilization of approximately 33,000
soldiers. The FAA military authorities and IRSEM would be responsible for planning
and implementing the demobilization of FAA soldiers. FAA demobilization would be
implemented in designated discharge centers (DCs), preferably existing barracks.
65.    Common elements for all ADRP beneficiaries: Notwithstanding differences in the
demobilization locations and timeframes, the FAA and IRSEM would seek to complete
most demobilization procedures similarly for all combatants demobilized in the ADRP.
Where necessary, specialized organizations would be sub-contracted to implement
9 Disarmament has been undertaken outside the Program following CGovernment-established procedures.
The disarmament of ex-FMU soldiers was carried out by the FAA working together with ex-FMU in the
quartering areas. Representatives of the US, Portuguese and Russian governments (the "Troika") indicate
that the level of actual disarmament reflects approximately what was estimated prior to commencement of
the disarmament exercise. The disarmament of FAA soldiers will be undertaken by the FAA prior to
demobilization.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex          20
specific modules (e.g., HIV/AIDS counseling). Common features of the ADRP
demobilization phase would include:
(i)   Identification and set-up of discharge/transit centers (QAs/DCs);
(ii)  Verification of combatant status;
(iii)  Identification of combatants to be demobilized;
(iv)  Assembly of combatants in QAs/DCs (transport of combatants, and if
appropriate families and household belongings);
(v)   Management of QAs/DCs (provision of supplies, etc.);
(vi)  Provision of identification (ID) cards;
(vii)  Collection of socio-economic data;
(viii) Counseling (including HIV/AIDS);
(ix)  Pre-discharge orientation (program benefits, reconciliation, rights/obligations
of civilian life);
(x)   Distribution of FAA salary; and
(xi)  Transport of ex-combatants, and if required their families and household
belongings, as well as provision of security for transport to desired
destinations.
66.   Identification cards: A proper identification system is essential to ensure target
group integrity during program implementation. Each ex-combatant would receive a
plastic military ID card from the FAA. To help ensure security, these would include
photographs and be individually numbered and stamped. They will not vary by ex-
combatant group. All ID card information would be incorporated into the Management
Information System (MIS) to be established and maintained by the program.
67.   In addition, IRSEM is providing ex-combatants with a program benefit card that
will allow ex-combatants to be tracked as they receive the benefits for which they are
eligible. To receive their benefits, ex-combatants will need to present both their military
ID card and their program benefit card, which will bear names and numbers that are
identical to the military ID card. To help control the allocation of benefits, markings on
the program benefit card will also be perforated whenever an ex-combatant obtains the
benefit indicated by the relevant marking.
68.   Socio-economic profiling: A socio-economic questionnaire was administered to
all ex-combatants during the demobilization process by the FAA. Data collected during
the exercise contain information about ex-combatants' demographic characteristics (age,
gender, marital status, number of children, etc.), education, assistance needs and
aspirations.10 The data will be incorporated into the MIS to be administered by IRSEM
and will be used to inform the development of reintegration assistance strategies.
10 As of February 2003, socio-economic data from all 36 quartering areas (QAs), representing some 78,000
ex-FMU, has been entered into an ex-combatant database and shared with IRSEM for analysis and



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                   21
69.    Pre-discharge orientation: The purpose of the pre-discharge orientation (PDO) is
to provide the ex-combatants and, where applicable, their partners with essential
information about the program. The PDO is being implemented in modules, each
covering one or more of the above-mentioned topics. The orientation program has been
implemented by IRSEM, which has also identified and trained counselors and prepared
appropriate counseling materials. The PDO is seeking to provide accurate information
about program benefits and minimize the generation of unrealistic expectations. Specific
PDO topics include the following:
(i)    ID card (non-negotiable, non-transferable);
(ii)   Program benefits and payment procedures;
(iii)  The reintegration role of the IRSEM provincial offices and IRSEM's rural
advisors;
(iv)   Community social networks and reintegration experiences of ex-combatants
demobilized in the past;
(v)    HIV/AIDS prevention and control; and
(vi)   Civic duties and human rights.
70.    Provisions for special target groups: Underage combatants were not registered
during the registration process, but were transferred to the Family Areas and treated as
unaccompanied children. Child protection agencies have started to provide special
counseling in the Family Areas to these children and intend to reunify them with their
families as soon as possible. Disabled combatants also appear to be under-reported in the
total number of ex-FMU in the QAs. It is believed that a large number, estimated at
approximately 5,000, were physically unable to reach the QAs to be registered, and the
FAA is currently undertaking an exercise to locate and register this case-load. The
ADRP has taken this into account in the overall estimates of this target group.
71.    Dependents: Families of FMU ex-combatants have been living either with or
close to ex-combatants in the Family Areas (FAs) of the camps during the demobilization
process. FAs have received logistical assistance (food, basic health services) from the
Government and the international humanitarian community as required during the
encampment period.
72.    Transportation: The physical relocatiorn of ex-combatants is occurring through a
provincially-organized transport of ex-combatants and their families frorn the QAs/FAs
and DCs to provincial transit centers. The rationale for the provision of Government-
reintegration planning. Initial analysis of the data indicates that 57 percent are single (and only 320, or 0.4
percent, are female), average age is 32, average years of service is 14, almost 80 percent did not receive
formal education above the fourth grade, and only about one-quarter delivered a weapon. With respect to
future plans, over 85 percent indicated that they came from either Bie, Benguela, Huarmbo, Huila or
Kwanza Sul and 81 percent that they intended to return to one of those provinces. In addition, about 20
percent expressed an interest in training in agriculture, 2CI percent in formal education, and between eight
and ten percent each in nursing, carpentry, and automobile mechanics.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         22
organized transport is based on four considerations, including (i) the sheer numbers and
concentration of people to be transported; (ii) the absence of private sector transport
options from many of the QAs; (iii) the need to ensure the security of those moving to
their areas of choice; and (iv) the need to ensure that people actually go where they say
they want to go and do not remain around QA locations.
73.   Arrival counseling: In conjunction with IRSEM provincial offices, local
administrative structures are being asked to provide counseling and information for ex-
combatants shortly after their arrival in the respective provinces. This counseling is
focused on reintegration expectations and opportunities. Program identification cards
would also be distributed at this time.
3.4.2 Transitional assistance
74.   It is generally accepted that ex-combatants, particularly of irregular or guerilla
forces, require short-term transitional assistance to provide for the basic needs of
themselves and their families in the period immediately following demobilization
(generally from six to nine months depending on agricultural cycles). There are at least
three reasons for this type of support: (i) upon demobilization, ex-combatants lose their
immediate means of support, which typically consists either in a salary or in the provision
of goods extorted through the use of their weapons; (ii) ex-combatants typically lack the
basic assets needed to restart even a subsistence life, and they are also typically ineligible
or not targeted for other humanitarian assistance; and (iii) longer-term reintegration
assistance designed to help ex-combatants return to peaceful economic activities
generally takes time to put in place.
75.   Transitional assistance is provided in cash and/or in kind, with the mix depending
on a number of considerations, including the availability of particular resources (such as
food aid); the feasibility of transferring relatively large sums of money around the
country; past experience with different types of assistance; and the administrative costs of
managing such different types. In the case of Angola, some transitional assistance, such
as clothing and basic household items, has already been provided to the families of many
ex-combatants in the QAs/FAs. Further assistance will be made available both in cash
and in kind and will be fully funded and administered by the Government.
76.   For ex-FMU that have been integrated into and then discharged out of the FAA
the cash benefit at demobilization consists of:
(i)   A cash payment equivalent to five months of salary: All ex-FMU ex-
combatants are eligible for a payment equivalent to five months of their rank-
based FAA salary at the time of demobilization. This payment has been or is
being made by the FAA in the QAs, using the FAA payroll system.
(ii)   Cash subsidy: Another cash payment of $100 in kwanza equivalent in the
form of contingency support will be paid in the province of return by IRSEM.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         23
77.   The payment of contingency support would be made at the provincial level in as
many sites as possible in order to minimize the need for ex-combatants to travel long
distances to payment locations. Ex-combatants who move across provincial borders
would be required to register in IRSEM office of the province to which they move in
order to receive their contingency support in the new location.
78.   In addition to the cash payments, in-kind goods have been provided in the QAs
and will also be provided at the point of return in the form of a "kit". Designed to sustain
a family until the first harvest, this kit has included, or is expected to include, basic
clothes, domestic and household items, agricultural inputs, and food aid.
79.   Counseling: To encourage the optimal utilization of the transitional support, the
Program would provide counseling on the use of the such assistance prior to
demobilization and after arrival in the community of settlement, including peer-to-peer
counseling (the sharing of experiences by ex-combatants demobilized earlier).
3.4.3 Reintegration
80.   One of the specific objectives of the ADRP is to contribute to the successful
social and economic reintegration of demobilized ex-FMU and FAA ex-combatants so
that they are able to contribute to national reconciliation and economic recovery.
Targeted assistance in support of the reintegration of ex-combatants in economic life is
important, as ex-combatants could pose a threat to the consolidation of the fragile peace
process in Angola. A significant proportion of ex-combatants at present lack assets that
would allow them to start up an economic activity and/or the skills, knowledge, and
networks needed to find employment. Therefore, in view of the difficult economic
conditions in many parts of Angola following the conclusion of the conflict, the program
will assist specific target group members to secure skills ancUor assets that will enable
them to obtain sustainable livelihoods for themselves and their families.
81.   Objectives: The reintegration component of the AI)RP has three key objectives.
It aims (i) to help ex-combatants to make better choices about which activities to pursue
by providing information and counseling about social conditions and economic
opportunities in their areas of return; (ii) to assist ex-combatants to secure employment in
their areas of return by referring them to ongoing or plannecd formal or informal sector
activities; and (iii) to improve the educational level or skills of vulnerable ex-combatants,
thereby increasing their economic viability and reintegration prospects.
82.   Basic principles: Based on experiences and lessons learned in Angola and
elsewhere, the ADRP will adopt the following guiding principles in the reintegration
phase:
(i)   Ex-combatants would be eligible for similar levels of reintegration assistance
irrespective of former affiliation.



-Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       24
(ii)  The program would support a demand-driven approach, empowering ex-
combatants to choose their reintegration preferences to the greatest extent
possible.
(iii)  The program would actively seek to link ex-combatants with broader,
community-based economic recovery and rehabilitation efforts undertaken by
the Government and other partners.
(iv)  The program would seek to avoid actions that would be perceived as
privileging ex-combatants in comparison with other war-affected populations.
(v)   The participation of civil society and the private sector in the identification and
provision of reintegration services would be encouraged.
(vi)  Wherever possible, the private sector would be invited to participate in
tendering for services to be delivered to the ex-combatants, as this would lead
to the most practical preparation of ex-combatants for integration into the
economy.
(vii) The marketability of skills acquired would be a key criterion in the decision to
finance any given vocational training activity.
83.      Target groups: The ADRP would provide reintegration assistance to two
groups of ex-combatants: an estimated 105,000 ex-FMU and 33,000 FAA. Among these
groups, the Program would provide specialized supplementary assistance to a subset of
individual ex-combatants who are classified as socio-economically vulnerable (e.g.
underage soldiers and disabled soldiers).
84.   Reintegration sub-projects: The broad areas of assistance under the ADRP
reintegration component will include (i) economic reintegration, (ii) social reintegration,
(iii) support to vulnerable groups (including disabled and under-aged), and (iv)
information, sensitization and referral services. Within each area of assistance, specific
opportunities will be defined, developed and provided to ex-combatants by implementing
partners and agencies that will be contracted by IRSEM. A more detailed discussion of
the different types of opportunities is presented in the following section.
85.   Assistance under the reintegration component of the ADRP will be comprised of
two different types of opportunities (primary and complementary) and a third more
general kind of assistance. All ex-combatants would have access to only one primary
opportunity, based on their personal preferences and guided by their socio-economic
backgrounds and chosen places of return. For instance, an ex-combatant could select
either assistance in productive/income-generating agriculture activities or vocational
training, but would not be able to participate in both types of assistance. An ex-
combatant would also not be able to participate in any one type of assistance more than
once. Complementary opportunities are those that would further support the economic
reintegration of ex-combatants-for instance through micro-credit, job placement, etc.-
and for which an ex-combatant would have to qualify. In other words, a complementary
opportunity would not be an entitlement, but rather a form of assistance that would be
available to those ex-combatants who meet minimum criteria. A third category of



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         25
general assistance would be available to all ex-combatants r egardless of their access to
either primary or complementary opportunities. This includes social reintegration
support as well as information, counseling and referral services.
86.   Preliminary socio-economic information on the ex-FMU ex-combatants in the
QAs indicates that a significant portion intend to return to the rural areas of their origin
(principally in the central highlands of the country). The ADRP therefore assumes that a
large proportion of this first group will seek agricultural support assistance under the
program. Another guiding principle of the reintegration component of the program is
that, to the extent possible, assistance would be provided to ex-combatants at the
community level and in such a way as to enhance community reintegration. Activities
should also be: relatively short-term (support is provided for a planting season or a 4-to-
6 month training program), relevant to the local economy (such as through traditional
apprenticeships), and implemented by existing partner organizations currently active in
the different areas of reintegration as defined below.
3.4.4 Economic reintegration
87.   Agriculture: Angola is a predominantly rural country where, despite years of war,
dislocation of populations, urbanization and conflicting land tenure systems, agriculture
still represents a significant source of rural income and employment. Given the large
number of ex-combatants who intend to return to rural areas, and the significant role
agriculture plays in basic subsistence for a large percentage of the population in general,
the ADRP expects that a large portion of reintegration support will be provided through
the agriculture sub-component.
88.   The principle objective of the subsistence agriculture sub-component is to
contribute to the self-sufficiency of returning ex-combatants and their families through
the production and sale of agricultural products. Based on the principal agriculture
activities in the zones of most likely return of ex-combatants, it is expected that this sub-
component will focus on a few different areas of production or processing. These include
basic food crops such as maize, beans, manioc and potatoes; small animal husbandry;
gardening; apiculture; artisanal fishing; or provision of equipment to groups for rice
hulling, fish smoking, or other types of food processing. Irmplementing partners would
provide support to returning ex-combatants and their families through the provision of
appropriate seeds, tools, and basic inputs such as fertilizer, veterinary drugs, and
technical assistance. The project will also need to provide a certain level of institutional
support (through training, technical assistance, and essential but small capital
investments) to local-level service providers.
89.   At present, a number of national and international agencies are supporting the
agriculture sector, including FAO, WFP, GTZ, CARE, and others. The Government's
extension services under the Ministry of Agriculture's Institute of Agricultural
Development function reasonably well and could serve as a potential source of
complementary support. A number of potential partners have expressed interest in
supporting agriculture reintegration and there is a relatively strong presence of these



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         26
agencies in the planalto where a majority of former ex-FMU combatants indicate they
will return.
90.   Work in this area will face a number of challenges. As with the other
reintegration activities, lead agencies are overextended and the capacity of other potential
partners is weak. Disputes over access to land as individuals and communities return to
former home communities now inhabited by others may also present challenges to
reintegration. While mines are also considered a potential obstacle to fully reclaiming
agriculture land, it is felt that local populations have general knowledge of the
whereabouts of mines and can avoid these areas until such time as they are made safe
through specialized programs of agencies such as the Halo Trust. In response, the project
will provide priority institutional support to local-level service providers, as necessary,
through small capital investments and technical assistance from the primary contractors
(see paragraph 120 below). While further analysis of the land tenure and access
constraints needs to be done, potential solutions that can be built into the project include
the participatory negotiated delineation process that FAO is currently piloting. More
permanent solutions to minimize land tenure disputes are being publicly discussed in the
context of a bill which will be presented to Parliament. Other strategies will be discussed
with Government and included in the reintegration component implementation
arrangements once the study is completed.
91.   Community Works Activities: An important component of post-war support for
the economic and social revival of Angolan communities will be the rehabilitation or
construction of essential infrastructure-schools, health posts, feeder roads, small
bridges, markets, administrative buildings, agricultural infrastructure, water supply and
sanitation systems. At the community level, these initiatives are currently being
undertaken by provincial governments, multi-province programs such as the Bank-
supported Social Action Fund, the Community Rehabilitation Program, the Post-Conflict
Rehabilitation Project, national and international NGOs, churches and community-based
organizations. Though the existing programs have been limited geographically to what
were considered secure areas, since the signature of the MoU there are more initiatives
planned in response to the peace and the necessity to provide local services and support
the return of the displaced populations. Ex-combatants will also be returning to these
same war-torn communities, where, over the coming years, increasing numbers of
physical rehabilitation projects will be undertaken.
92.   The primary objective of the community works sub-component is to provide
income for demobilized soldiers through short-term employment as laborers in
community works projects within their communities of residence. A secondary objective
is to support social reintegration and promote reconciliation, as the ex-combatants will be
integrated into work projects with other community residents, IDPs or returnees. In some
cases (depending on the nature of the project, skill level of the ex-combatant, and
individual initiative), relevant job skills obtained during the works activity may lead to
longer-term job opportunities. An additional benefit from this sub-component will be the
freeing-up of resources to expand the number of works activities that may be undertaken
by the partnering organization or governmental entity.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       27
93.   Potential partners undertaking community works projects will be identified at
national (multi-province programs), provincial, municipal and community levels working
with existing coordination mechanisms. As this sub-component acts as a support to
organizations undertaking works projects, the ADRP will finance the labor costs for the
specified project as well as the project-related costs of material inputs, technical
supervision and oversight. In particular, it is expected that: the ADRP will contribute
financial resources to participating organizations undertaking community works projects
through the employment of ex-combatants, equivalent to the ex-combatant salaries,
calculated at the entry-level unskilled laborer rate, for a period of six months. The
participating organizations will also receive support at a set rate to cover supervision and
basic orientation costs to ensure the integration of the ex-combatant into the works
projects. If necessary, light tools (hammers, shovels, picks, and so on) rnay be supplied
to the ex-combatants at the work sites that they may keep t:o enhance the possibility of
obtaining similar jobs in the future, outside the framework of the ADRP.
94.   Given that many community works and rehabilitation projects are in the planning
phase, it is anticipated that this sub-component will increase its outputs during the
timeframe of the ADRP. The indicative targets are 2,000 placements in year one of the
program, 3,000 placements in year two, and 5,000 placements in year three. In the
preparatory phase of the ADRP, a study must be undertaken of existing and projected
community works initiatives that may be potential partners.
95.   Training: While 21 percent of surveyed ex-FMU combatants indicate that they
had been working in one or another form of productive activity prior to the war, given the
significant time that the average combatant has spent in the military (10 years), it is likely
that these skills are no longer well-suited to the formal or informal job markets.
Therefore, ADRP planners expect that vocational training will be crucial to enhance the
employability of demobilized ex-combatants under the AI)RP. The overall objective of
this training will be to provide ex-combatants with adequate skills to enter into and
participate in the formal or informal job markets.
96.   Flexible and cost-effective short-cycle training, especially for self-employment
and other skills needed for reconstruction, would be the main focus of support under this
sub-component of the ADRP. Training would be provided mainly through three different
means: traditional apprenticeship, on-the-job training, and formal training. The training
would be designed to respond to local labor opportunities and would involve a wide
range of training providers such as skilled artisans, government training institutions,
public and private co-operation facilities, private sector partners (for on-the-job training),
NGOs, CBOs and religious organizations. In particular, it is expected that much of the
formal training would take advantage of the existing infrastructure and capacity of the
National Institute of Employment and Professional Training (TNEFOP). Other partners
such as Development Workshop and GTZ are currently engaged in such activities and
have expressed an interest in continuing to support this area of work. Church
organizations and CBOs would be the main conduit for identifying and facilitating
traditional apprenticeship schemes. The Employment Centers of the Ministry of Public



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         28
Administration, Employment and Social Security (MAPESS) would be the main
implementing partner for on-the-job placements.
97.   The type of training that an ex-combatant will access will be determined by three
factors: individual preference, aptitude, and opportunities to apply the training following
completion. This selection process will be handled through the counseling and referral
arm of IRSEM, with the support of the identified primary contractor and local training
providers. It is expected that some form of entrance test will be administered to
determine individual aptitude. The national programs being developed by MAPESS will
serve to orient potential trainees to the challenges and opportunities of each area of
vocational training. Based on an assessment of the current economic conditions, and the
initial profile of the ex-combatants, the areas of likely training will include:
rural/agriculture-based skills such as food processing and preservation, repair of
agricultural tools, soap making, and so on; small-scale construction skills including
carpentry, masonry, and brick-making; basic automobile and motorcycle repair, bicycle
repair, panel beating, tin-smithing, and so on; and other skills or services as the market
dictates.
98.   It is also anticipated that a small but important percentage of ex-combatants
would not require basic training as such to enter the productive job market but rather
other support. Those ex-combatants who entered the fighting forces with higher levels of
training and/or skills, or who received further training while in the military, could opt for
direct business services, credit, or other income-generation support as described below.
CNRSPDD would also seek to support the process of accreditation for teachers,
paramedics, nurses, and others who were trained and worked in these areas while actively
part of ex-FMU.
99.   This sub-component will be faced with a number of challenges. At present, very
little is known about the job market or the nature of current or immediate future small-
scale economic opportunities. As a result, the program intends to finance a study of
current economic opportunities, and a simple system will be designed rapidly to update
the information to help guide on-going training efforts. Capacity to absorb and
adequately train ex-combatants poses a significant challenge as well. Formal training
facilities will be able to handle only a small percentage of the estimated number of
trainees. The program will address this potential bottle-neck by supporting alternative
training opportunities such as traditional apprenticeships and on-the-job training.
Nonetheless, while there are many potential obstacles to absorbing ex-combatants into
the small-scale formal and informal economy, the overall improvement in security and
the increase in economic activities throughout the country will provide a positive impetus
to reintegration along these lines.
100. Promotion of income-generating activities: The reintegration component will
also support the promotion of income-generating activities as a complementary benefit,
but only to ex-combatants who meet minimum qualifications for such additional benefits.
The four types of support contemplated under this sub-component are business
management training, micro-credit assistance, job placement services and possibly the



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         29
provision of tool kits. Ex-combatants would qualify for this complementary support by,
for example: demonstrating that they posses the minimum skills required for a given
trade, preparing and presenting a viable business plan to be eligible for credit, or having a
secure workplace for capital investments such as tools. These basic qualifying criteria
will be determined by IRSEM together with its primary implementing partners.
Activities under this sub-component would be initiated oII a limited basis and only after
the primary reintegration opportunities are up and running sufficiently well.
101.  All ex-combatants would be eligible tc apply for this type of assistance regardless
of what other assistance they have received under the reintegration component, but there
would be no guarantee that they would receive support under this sub-component. It is
also possible that a small percentage of ex-combatants who already have the requisite
skills for a given economic area will access this type of complementar) assistance
without seeking other types of reintegration assistance.
102.  In the case of micro-credit, the ADRP will take advantage of existing successful
credit schemes already operating in Angola. For instance, the micro-credit program of
Banco Sol would be a possible channel of credit for ex-combatants. As, such, the
systems, procedures and screening criteria currently used by these institutions for their
general clientele would be applied to the ex-combatants as well. For the purposes of this
activity, the ADRP would merely provide additional capital to these existing schemes.
Job placement services would probably be provided through the Government's
Employment Centers, for which the ADRP would share marginal operating costs with the
Centers. Business training may be provided as a stand-alone activity or in the context of
skills training for those ex-combatants that demonstrate an aptitude and inclination
toward self-employment. For this activity, the ADRP will draw upon the lessons learned
and implementation capacity developed under a joint ILCI/MAPESS program entitled
"Improve your Business".
3.4.5 Social reintegration
103.  While economic reintegration may consume the bulk of the resources within the
ADRP, supporting the establishment and consolidation of a peace-building environment
to assist the ex-combatants to re-enter civilian life is equally important. Given that the
median number of years that the ex-FMU have spent in military service is 14, many have
only known war in their adult life. This fact, coupled with the lack of previous work
experience and low educational levels of many of the forner soldiers, will require social
support starting in the quartering areas and following them to their return communities.
104.  The principle objective of the social reintegration sub-component is to ease the
return of ex-combatants into civilian life while promoting reconciliation and harmony. In
any conflict in which all parties have endured personal suffering and hardship, the
healing and reconciliation process takes many forms. Confidence-building programs in
which all parties are informed of their rights and responsibilities as Angolans are an
important feature. Working on joint community initiatives at a village level can bring ex-



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         30
combatants, IDPs and war-affected families together to address common problems. Civil
society organizations, churches and traditional leaders are important in this process.
105. The ADRP will help IRSEM to work with partner organizations in communities
and facilitators already working with the ex-combatants in the context of the
PRONAISAR pre-discharge orientation to undertake activities to promote the social
reintegration process. Activities to be supported will include:
* Community level sensitization and confidence building programs;
* Awareness of civic rights and responsibilities with ex-combatants and the
communities;
* Mine awareness programs;
* Information and counseling on STDs, HIV/AIDS, health and sanitation;
* Media campaigns through radio, posters, pamphlets and print media;
* Conflict analysis and reconciliation activities in areas of real or potential tension
to develop concrete interventions to diffuse potential conflict; and
* Community activities (cultural, sporting events or work projects) which promote
social cohesion and help to rebuild social capital in return communities.
106.  While some of these activities may be sub-contracted at a national level to
networks of civil society groups or media, most social reintegration sub-projects will be
supported at the provincial level. A social reintegration facilitating organization will be
selected to promote and identify projects at local level in consultation with IRSEM at the
provincial level.
3.4.6 Special target groups
107.  Gender. On the basis of a partial survey of ex-FMU completed to date, it is
unlikely that the number of female ex-combatants to be demobilized will be sizeable (of
some 78,000 surveyed as of February 2003, only 320, or 0.4 percent, were female). Even
so, given the experiences of other demobilization and reintegration programs, the ADRP
would provide targeted support for the social and economic reintegration of female ex-
combatants. Specific measures would include the following:
(i)   Ensuring that all benefits for ex-combatants are equal for and equally
accessible to men and women;
(ii)  Including partners of ex-combatants and women in communities of return in
community-level counseling activities; and
(iii) Monitoring the impact of the program on partners of ex-combatants and
women in communities of return and bringing emerging problems to the
attention of the relevant authorities.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                     31
108. Disabled ex-combatants.1 Initial data indicate that, of 78,000 ex-FMU surveyed,
2,100 suffered some loss of vision, 1,400 loss of a leg, and 870 loss of an arm. The total
percentage of disabled is low, at six percent, which is inconsistent with reports from both
forces as well as historical data on the conflict in Angola.12 It has therefore been
assumed that a large number of disabled UNITA did not parricipate in the quartering
exercise. The FAA has been visiting those areas where UNITA has indicated that its
disabled are or were residing. The Government is expected to provide updated estimates
of the total number of disabled to be supported under the program before effectiveness.
109.   To date, only limited medical and economic assistance has been provided to
disabled ex-combatants. The ADRP would provide assistance for medical rehabilitation
depending on the degree of disability, and including the provision of physical
rehabilitation assistance (prosthesis and orthesis), counseling, vocational training and/or
support for micro-enterprise activities. Furthermore, the ADRP would seek to reinforce
key medical facilities (such as the provincial orthopedic workshops in or near areas of
return) to provide systematic prosthetic and physiotherapy services, including
maintenance of prosthetic devices, to ex-combatants.
110.   The program would also seek systematically to address the medical needs of
chronically ill ex-combatants. The program would endeavo:r to ensure access to medical
care and counseling for chronically ill ex-combatants for up to 12 months after
demobilization. After this period, the program would transfer responsibility for these ex-
combatants to relevant health authorities. In cases where ex-combatants are too ill or too
severely disabled to pursue economic activities themselves, the program wvould support
the deferral of program benefits to a family member identified by the ex-combatant.
111.   Underage ex-combatants. In close coordination with MINARS and the child
protection network, the ADRP will support assistance to underage soldiers and other
minors associated with both armed forces in accordance with the Cape Town Principle
definition of "child soldier". The Government currently estimates that there are
approximately 6,000 ex-FMU underaged soldiers, but becautse no child soldiers were
registered in the QAs-they were sent to live with family members or caretakers in the
FAs-this number needs to be confirmed. Based on previous Angolan and international
experiences, and taking into consideration the criteria establ[ished under the Cape Town
Principle, the actual number may be considerably higher.
" Disability is defined as functional limitation within an individual caused by physical, mental or sensory
impairment. If the pattern of disability among ex-combatants followed national averages, about three in
five disabled soldiers would have traumatic injuries resulting in loss of limb through amputation (due to
war, landmines, or accident) and about two in five disability originating from disease and resulting in loss
of a bodily function (e.g. deafness, blindness, paralysis due to poliomyelitis). Similar rmtios could apply
among the families that have accompanied UNITA soldiers during the war.
12 The number of disabled ex-combatants identified following the Lusaka demobilization exercise was
10,771 ex-FMU soldiers and some 6,000 FAA soldiers. AUthough the numbers need to be verified, it has
been reported that, of the ex-FMU disabled who were demobilized under the Lusaka Protocol, 5,634
remain without support in Kuando Kubango province. In addition the 6,000 FAA disabled are still waiting
to be demobilized, and about 800 of these are concentrated in the Arm) Center for the Physically Disabled
in Funda in poor living conditions.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         32
112.  Implementing partners, such as UNICEF, Christian Children's Fund, Save the
Children UK, and church groups, are expected to provide assistance to the reintegration
of underage ex-combatants, which would include family tracing and unification, trauma
counseling and psycho-social care, and facilitation of access to education and recreation
in communities of settlement. Children older than 15 years may have different needs and
would receive appropriate support (e.g., for vocational training). The program of
assistance will be jointly developed by the child protection network (CPN) and it is
expected that the CPN will be able to provide complementary financial support for this
sub-component of the ADRP.
113. Information, counseling and referral (ICR) services: IRSEM's provincial offices
are providing and will provide ICR services through the provincial social orientation
officer as well as the municipal-level liaison officers that will be hired under the ADRP
in approximately 50 municipal headquarters where the highest concentration of ex-
combatants will return. (Five municipios-Andulo, Bailuindo, Caala, Ganda, and
Huambo-have over 2,500 ex-combatants returning, and five others-Chongoroi, Cubal,
Katchungo, Lobito and Mungo-have 2,000 to 2,500.) The ADRP will also take advantage of
the partner activista and beneficiaryfacilitador network that IRSEM has developed to
provide counseling services under the pre-discharge orientation program.
114. The ICR service would assist ex-combatants in several ways. First, it would
respond to ex-combatant inquiries about access to reintegration opportunities; counseling
regarding job-seeking strategies; and information and counseling regarding training and
employment opportunities. Second, it would serve as a mechanism to refer ex-
combatants to such opportunities (e.g., demining, public works, community infrastructure
rehabilitation, etc.), thereby seeking to ensure the integration of ex-combatants in broader
recovery efforts. In particular, the service would proactively refer ex-combatants to
labor-intensive public works programs and community-based interventions financed and
implemented by other agencies and NGOs. The ICR service would also encourage
private sector companies to train and recruit ex-combatants where possible. Finally, it
would provide critical psycho-social support during the difficult transition phase.
115. In all provinces, IRSEM's rural advisers would undertake outreach activities,
visiting ex-combatants in the communities and helping to solve reintegration problems in
communities of settlement. The provision of ICR will build on the lessons learned in the
context of the SeCoR project following the Lusaka accords.
116. Rural reintegration and access to land: A large proportion of ex-combatants
originated from rural areas and are likely to return there; hence access to land is a critical
element for successful economic reintegration. The program would seek to facilitate
their access to land in areas of return in accordance with local land tenure systems."3 No
citizen would be compelled to cede any land to an ex-combatant; thus there would be no
involuntary displacement of civilians as a result of ex-combatants settling in a
community.
13 The program will not bear the costs of land acquisition.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex          33
3.4.7 Reintegration implementation arrangements
117.  IRSEM will contract out to existing agencies and implementing partners most of
the reintegration support activities contemplated under the ADRP. These partners would
include UN agencies, NGOs, CBOs, churches, government institutions and other
agencies working in relevant areas of assistance. It is expected that the majority of
reintegration activities will be contracted out to larger "primary" contractors that would
be responsible for sub-contracting out services and activities to smaller "secondary"
contractors, such as training institutes, agricultural NGOs, churches, and so on. The
purpose of the primary contractors is to supplement IRSEM's contract management
capabilities and help rapidly to expand service delivery, prcivide specific technical know-
how in a given area of reintegration, ensure quality control, and support capacity-building
of service providers. An estimated 75 percent of the total value of the reintegration
component will be implemented in this manner, while the remaining 25 percent will be
directly contracted by IRSEM with specific secondary contractors for geographic or
technical areas not covered by the primary contractors.
118. In preparing the project implementation manual, the Government will develop
and agree with IDA on the criteria and procedures for implementing partner and
reintegration sub-project identification, selection, contracting and monitoring. During the
remaining preparatory period of the project, IRSEM will contract the services of a
reintegration advisor to assist with defining in more detail the specific technical standards
for the various reintegration sub-components, and to help prepare the sections of the
project implementation manual related to reintegration.
119.  It is expected that proposed reintegration activities will be eligible for support
under the ADRP if they:
(i)   target members of the ex-FMIJ or FAA who have been demobilized and
discharged since April 4, 2002, and possess a valid discharge certificate (it
is sufficient that a majority of the beneficiaries of an activity be included
in the target group);'
(ii)  are sufficiently demand-driven;
(iii)  do not exceed twelve months duration (with the possibility of extension);
(iv)  include budgets that are clear and reasonable and do not exceed an average
beneficiary unit cost of $600 equivalent (except for the special categories
of medical rehabilitation and family reunification, where the beneficiary
unit cost should not exceed $1,600 equivalent (see below)); and
(v)   channel at least 70 percent of expenditures to direct project costs and no
more than 30 percent to indirect and institutional costs
120.  Contractual arrangements for reintegration sub-projects-primarv contractors: In
order quickly to build the management capacity required to administer a large pan-
14 For example, a group of targeted ex-combatants might form a small company together with non-ex-
combatants and receive assistance from the ADRP.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         34
territorial reintegration program for ex-combatants, MINARS/IRSEM intends to provide
reintegration assistance through contracting various implementing agencies
("contractors") which may implement reintegration sub-projects in their own right or may
function as primary contractors that subcontract secondary contractors ("sub-
contractors") to implement specific reintegration sub-projects. In either case, contractors
will be fully responsible for the reintegration sub-projects completed under their purview,
whether they implement these sub-projects directly or through sub-contractors. Only
contractors that are acceptable to the World Bank will be allowed to make use of ADRP
resources. The following process will be followed to engage primary contractors:
*  In the first few months of project implementation, and at least annually thereafter,
IRSEM, working with potential or active contractors and the multi-donor working
group, will set the strategy and budget for the entire program for the fiscal year.
A major part of this work will be the identification and formulation of profiles for
the type of support service opportunities that beneficiaries could access, based on
economic, supply, and demand factors.
*  These profiles and other information will be made available to Government
agencies (e.g. INEFOP), UN agencies (e.g. ILO, IOM, UNDP and UNICEF), and
national and international NGOs (e.g. ADRA, Development Workshop, GTZ) that
may participate in the ADRP as contractors or sub-contractors. In particular, as
the ADRP begins to be implemented, IRSEM will publish requests for
expressions of interest (Eol), including detailed terms of reference (ToR) setting
out criteria of eligibility for (i) contractors, (ii) sub-contractors, and (iii) sample
reintegration activities that would be included within the scope of the ADRP.
*  On receiving proposals, a Contracting Committee (including an ad hoc technical
expert as well as representatives, inter alia, from IRSEM, UNITA, and possibly
Angola's external partners) will determine whether a proposed contractor meets
conditions of eligibility to participate. Proposed contractors will be eligible to
receive ADRP resources if they:
(i)   have, or are able to attain, legal status within Angola;
(ii)  have at least ten years of working experience (in or outside Angola)
implementing activities of a similar kind to those proposed in their ADRP
proposals;
(iii)  have adequate administrative and financial management systems and
procedures in place to safeguard the use of ADRP resources;
(iv)  have access to adequate infrastructure and personnel;
(v)   have no legal dispute or debts which would materially affect the
institution's ability to implement the project;
(vi)  agree to observe the principles, rules and regulations of the overall ADRP
program as set out in a detailed project implementation manual (to be
prepared as a condition of ADRP effectiveness); and
(vii)  are acceptable to the World Bank (which will be formally requested to
express its non-objection).



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex-         35
* If the Contracting Committee determines that a potential contractor and its
proposal meet the ADRP eligibility criteria and technical standards, IRSEM will
enter into a contract with the contractor. The Project Implementation Manual will
specify how the eligibility criteria can be applied to strengthen local community-
based organizations and NGOs
*  Throughout the life of the ADRP, IRSEM, through its Projects Department and its
informnation management unit, will monitor and evaluate contractors' progress in
implementing their projects, including through regular random checks of
(contractor- or sub-contractor-led) sub-projects. Contractors will be expected to
report progress to IRSEM on at least a quarterly basis. ADRP contractors, which
will monitor and control the activities of the implernenting sub-contractors, will
share key data with IRSEM to ensure that IRSEM can monitor overall program
coverage and apply lessons learned baclc to other projects and proposals in the
program. On a regular basis, IRSEM's information management section will also
conduct impact and beneficiary assessments.
121.  Contractual arrangements for reintegration sub-proiects-secondary contractors:
Where a contractor intends to use sub-contractors to implement sub-projects within the
contractor's area of responsibility, the relationship between contractors and sub-
contractors is expected to be standardized and to include the following steps (to be further
articulated in the ADRP's Project Implementation Manual):
* Setting strategy: At least annually, active contractors working with IRSEM and
the multi-donor working group will set their strategy and budget for the program
for the upcoming fiscal year. (In at least the first year, contractors are likely to
disseminate the profiles in their areas and/or among their sub-contracted
implementing partners with a view to creating an awareness of the ADRP and to
initiate discussions with them about forming partnerships to implement support
services within the ADRP framework.)
* Reguesting proposals for sub-projects: Active contractors will solicit proposals
for potential sub-projects from potential sub-contractors, which will be eligible to
participate in the ADRP if they meet the criteria of' eligibility imposed on
contractors, with the exceptions that (i) a sub-contractor will be deemed to have
sufficient experience if its project implementation experience exceeds two years
(instead of ten years as required for prirnary contractors) and (ii) the World Bank
will not be required to express its non-objection. Solicitation will occur mainly
through the dissemination of information relating to the reintegration program,
and will include publication of criteria of eligibility for proposed reintegration
activities. Contractors will be expected to prepare the terms of reference for sub-
contractors working under them.
* No sub-contractor will receive ADRP financing exceeding 50 percent of that
organization's annual budget for the previous fiscal year.
* Executing sub-projects: Sub-contractors' proposals will be received by
contractors and, if they are found to meet the eligibility criteria, they will move
through a process of preparation, appraisal, execution, and closure. Once



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       36
submitted to a contractor, a sub-contractor's proposal will undergo a pre-
appraisal; if it is deemed to fall within the ADRP framework and to be viable, it
will be fully evaluated and designed. The proposal becomes a project to be
executed once the contractor and the sub-contractor agree a Project
Implementation Agreement for its delivery. At least initially, a single contractor
may be processing several dozen such proposals and projects simultaneously.
* A Contracting Committee (including representatives from the relevant primary
contractor, IRSEM, UNITA, and possibly Angola's external partners) will vet
proposals from sub-contractors expected to implement sub-projects with a value
exceeding $100,000 per annum; IRSEM, together with the relevant contractor,
will vet proposals with a value below $100,000. If appropriate, this review
process will be delegated to and carried out by provincial representatives of the
respective agencies.
* Monitoring and evaluating sub-proiects: Before the sub-contractor initiates the
sub-project, the contractor will identify from within its personnel a supervisor to
monitor its progress and evaluate its results. The development process will be
monitored and evaluated and progress payments made by the contractor to the
sub-contractor as agreed and warranted. During implementation, the contractor
will monitor and control the activities of the implementing sub-contractor to
ensure that resources are being used transparently and accountably and project
objectives are being met. It will also ensure that key beneficiary data are
collected in a timely manner and shared with IRSEM's information management
section, to ensure that IRSEM can monitor overall program coverage.
Throughout the life of a sub-project, it will be constantly monitored and evaluated
by the appointed supervisor and any lessons learned will be applied back to other
sub-projects and proposals in process. Supervision, monitoring and evaluation,
and control activities will be integrated into all of the processes and procedures.
On a regular basis, IRSEM's information management section will also conduct
impact and beneficiary assessments.
* The Contracting Committee or the World Bank will have the power to rescind
contracts with sub-contractors for non-performance.
3.4.8  HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures
122.  The ADRP will contain an HIV/AIDS component to provide HIV/AIDS
sensitization to ex-combatants during demobilization as well as follow-up in communities
in which ex-combatants settle.
123.  Demobilization phase. IRSEM is providing ex-FMU in the quartering areas with
pre-discharge information and counseling services focused on HIV/AIDS.
124.  Reintegration phase. In collaboration with activities envisaged under the national
AIDS program, the following activities would be considered in the reintegration phase:
(i) encouraging HIV-positive ex-combatants to join existing support groups of people
living with HIV/AIDS; (ii) utilizing ex-combatant networks to disseminate HIV/AIDS



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical AnnEax                 37
sensitization in communities of settlement; (iii) providing additional assistance to the
families of ex-combatants who are unable to resume economic activities due to
HIV/AIDS, including delegation of economic assistance to a family member or financing
access to education of an ex-combatant's children; and (iv) training ex-combatants to
serve as HIV/AIDS counselors. In support of social reintegration, the ADRP would also
consider the financing of specific sub-project activities related to HIV/AIDS awareness
and prevention that target both ex-combatants and the communities to which they return.
3.5    Program Cost
125. The ADRP is estimated to cost $180 million'5 (see Table 4), of which IDA would
provide grant resources amounting to $33 million. Other donors are expected to finance
about $17 million bilaterally and $53 million through the Multi-Donor Trust Fund
associated with the Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP).
Remaining program costs will be borne by Government, which will finance in its entirety
the demobilization and transitional assistance phases of the program. Total program
costs amount to about $1,200 per beneficiary.
Table 4: ADRP Costs
Component                 Unit Cost       Total Program        Percent
(US$)           Cost (US$)
1. Demobilization                              =
2. Transitional assistance*         408         71,340,000     _      39.6%
3. Reintegration                    418         57,720,000            32.1%
4. Special groups                  1,110        31,625,000             17.6%
5. Technical Assistance              n/a         5,666,000             0.8%
6. Program Management                n/a         4,864,000             5.0%
Sub-total                                          171,216,000
Contingencies                           n/a          8,560,000             4.8%
Total (estimated)                                  179),775,000          100.0%
* Bank estimate based on approximate FAA salaries scales and presumed FMU military structure
126.   Government counterpart contribution. The Government estimates that overall it
will spend approximately $125 million in the disarmament, demobilization, and
reintegration of ex-FMU. The Government's counterpart contribution to the ADRP is
estimated to amount to $77 million, or 43 percent of the itotal ADRP budget (see Table 5,
and note that the ADRP budget excludes demobilization costs). In addition, the
Government will finance all taxes levied in Angola on works, goods and services for this
program.
Table 5: A)RP Financing' flan 
Source         ,     US$ million'-  I    Percent
Government of Angola              77.0                43
IDA                               33.0                18
Bilaterals (MDTF/parallel)        69.7                38
Total                            179.7             100.0
15 This program cost estimate excludes the cost of demobilization as this phase of the program was
managed directly by the FAA and the estimated costs were not available to the Bank's appraisal team.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        38
127. Rationale for the use of an IDA grant: Angola, as an IDA-only country emerging
from a period of conflict, has been allocated IDA grant resources of $33 million for FY03
and these resources will be fully allocated to the ADRP.16 This project was selected for
grant financing for the following four reasons:
*  Strong human development impact. The proposed project will help Angola to
accelerate progress towards achieving the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs)
for human development. Over 80% of the IDA proceeds being made available to
support the ADRP will finance economic reintegration opportunities for ex-
combatants or special assistance to vulnerable groups. Economic reintegration
opportunities would involve assistance in the production and marketing of
agricultural products; access to vocational and technical training; and wage
payments effected for labor contributing to the rehabilitation or reconstruction of
essential infrastructure such as schools, health posts, markets, and water supply
and sanitation systems. Special assistance to vulnerable groups would involve
reuniting underage ex-combatants with their families and providing them with
educational opportunities, or else providing disabled and chronically ill ex-
combatants with medical rehabilitation assistance (including the provision of
physical rehabilitation assistance, counseling, and vocational training).
*  Centrality of the project-supported activities to all poverty-reducing activities in
Angola. The successful demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants will
also play a central role in consolidating stability in Angola and creating the
conditions which will allow millions of Angolans to escape the poverty and
despair that conflict inevitably brings. Improved security and service delivery in
the rural areas has already encouraged hundreds of thousands of people
spontaneously to resettle, and as this continues and returnees resume economic
activity in their home areas, they will bring about a substantial and permanent
reduction in the level of poverty in Angola.
*  Simplifying the management of resources supporting the ADRP. The use of an
IDA grant to support the proposed ADRP will facilitate closer collaboration
between IDA and the MDRP donors, which are expected to support the ADRP
through grant resources made available from the Multi-Donor Trust Fund
(MDTF). Many MDRP donors have already participated in project preparation,
in some cases by helping to finance project-related technical assistance. Having
IDA resources and MDTF resources in the same form will facilitate their
management by the implementing agency, IRSEM.
*  Government preference. The Govemment has shown strong ownership of the
ADRP and has requested grant financing for this project. It sees significant
benefit in popular support for this program, and the availability of grant financing
will help the Govemment to answer critics, who tend to see the program as
16 An additional $20 million in IDA grants is expected to be utilized in FY04 to support an upcoming
HIV/AIDS project being developed under the framework of the Multi-country AIDS Program.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        39
inappropriately rewarding a group that contributed to Angola's poverty and may
oppose implementation of the program on the ground that borrowed funds should
not be used for this purpose.
128.  Monitoring results: A strong Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System,
complemented with close Bank supervision, would seek to ensure that the program
reaches targeted beneficiaries in a timely and efficient fas'hion. This will be
accomplished in part through the establishment of a professional Management
Information System. These systems are described in Section 5.4 of this document, and
the project's key performance indicators are listed in Table 8 (page 57).
3.6   Conditions of Effectiveness
129.  The following conditions of effectiveness have been agreed with Government:
(i)   A Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Government and IRSEM;
(ii)  A Decree has been adopted, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, establishing the eligibility criteria for the demobilization of
FAA ex-combatants and the associated benefits;
(iii)  The Government has adopted a Project Implementation Manual, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(iv)  Key professional staff (including a management advisor, a reintegration
advisor and a management information specialist) have been contracted by
IRSEM, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association;
(v)   The Project Account has been opened and. the Initial Deposit has been
made; and
(vi)  A Financial Management and Procurement Unit (FMPIJ) has been
established, with financial management staff and procurement staff with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association.
4     Studies and Technical Assistance
130.  The preparation missions of the ADRP identified information gaps as well as
program areas in need of improvement. Institutional development support will therefore
be provided in the form of studies and technical assistance to inform the implementation
of the program. The Bank would provide technical support as required.
4.1   Studies
131. Program of community sensitization and participiation. The objective of this
program would be to sensitize the civilian population about the ADRP and the challenges
faced during this process by ex-combatants and their families. The program would also
address the concerns of the receiving communities and encourage their participation in
reintegration activities. The program would be disseminated through various forms of
media (e.g., radio, brochures, popular folk theater, and newspapers).



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         40
132. Assistance for disabled ex-combatants. This study would help design and cost the
detailed assistance package that would: (i) provide counseling necessary for the social
reintegration of disabled ex-combatants; (ii) medically rehabilitate disabled ex-
combatants in order to achieve optimal and sustainable benefits from therapeutic
interventions such as the provision of prostheses and physiotherapy; and (iii) where
relevant, train disabled ex-combatants in skills needed to pursue an economic activity
which is both of their choice and economically viable. The assistance would encourage
the development of community-based rather than institution-based services, and would
further initiatives which increase the capacity of disabled people to help themselves and
each other.
133.  Staff development program: Training would commence immediately after staff
have been recruited or assigned to the ADRP, with the aim of ensuring that all involved
have the same understanding of the program objectives, procedures, and specific
responsibilities, including their tasks in relation to the internal reporting system. The
staff development program will include: (i) the preparation of a training plan; (ii) the
development of training materials; and (iii) the carrying out of training activities,
including gender awareness and sensitization.
134. Assessment of community absorption capacity in expected areas of return: This
assessment would include the following: (i) a stakeholder analysis; (ii) an institutional
capacity diagnostic, including the possible roles of traditional leaders; (iii) the
development of a public consultation mechanism as part of the ADRP's sensitization
program; and (iv) the design of a participatory monitoring and evaluation framework.
The assessment would help identify the social and cultural structure of incentives and
constraints that guide and govern behavior with respect to building social cohesion and
promoting sustainable use of natural resources. Furthermore, it would help determine
relevant social indicators for participatory monitoring, including on social exclusion of
returning ex-combatants.
135.  Economic opportunity structure. The objective of this activity would be to assess
opportunities that ex-combatants will find upon their reintegration into civilian life. The
study would focus on employment, the informal sector and vocational training (including
informal apprenticeships) in the rural and urban sectors. The findings would be collated
in the form of an inventory of reintegration opportunities by province and sector. This
inventory would be used by the provincial offices of IRSEM and the Ministry of Labor
for informing and counseling ex-combatants.
4.2   Technical Assistance
136.  Local and/or expatriate technical assistance will be required for longer-term and
short-term assignments during Program implementation in the areas of overall program
management, reintegration assistance, management information systems, financial
management and procurement, information and sensitization, and other areas as identified
and considered essential by both IRSEM and the Bank. Consultancies would be required
on an ongoing periodic basis for external audits and independent evaluations. Qualified
(private and/or public) individuals or firms would be sub-contracted by IRSEM to



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Anner                 41
undertake such activities. Draft terms of reference for the key areas of financial
management and procurement, reintegration, program management, and MIS have been
discussed with the Government and IRSEM is in the process of contracting for a number
of these positions through an existing Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance.
5      Institutional Arrangements and Program Implementation
5.1    Institutional Structure
137.   The successful implementation of the ADRP requires a well-designed institutional
setting, tailored to the specific characteristics of Angola. Experience in other
demobilization and reintegration programs indicates that program coordination should be
supervised by a high-level Government entity with no implementation responsibility; that
overall program implementation should be the responsibility of a single civilian agency;
and that component and sub-component implementation should be decentralized. This
general structure will be used for the ADRP.
5.1.1 Central level
138.   National Commission for the Social and Productive Reintegration of the
Demobilized and Displaced (CNRSPDD). The CNRSPDD was established in June 2002,
as the successor to the Intersectoral Commission for Implementation of the Peace Process
(the Peace Commission), with a mandate to coordinate Government eflorts in
reintegrating ex-combatants demobilized under the variouis peace accords signed by the
Government.'7 Given its mandate, the CNRSPDD will be tasked with overall program
oversight and the provision of policy guidance, but it will not be involved in program
implementation. I  Its main responsibilities will include:
(i)    Advising the Government on matters concerning the demobilization and
reintegration of ex-combatants;
(ii)   Identifying and resolving substantive policy problems related to the
reintegration of ex-combatants into civilian li fe in a timely manner;
(iii) Monitoring and guiding the work of IRSEM and other Government and non-
governmental institutions and agencies involved in ADRP implementation;
and
17 The CNRSPDD chairman is the Minister of the Interior; other members include the Minister of
Assistance and Social Reinsertion (who chairs the CNRSPDD's Executive Committee); the Ministers of
Planning; Finance; Health; Public Administration, Employment and Social Security; Education and
Culture; and Agriculture and Rural Development; the Secretary of the Council of Ministers; the Head of the
Military House; and the Head of the Estate Major General of the FAA. A UNITA representative as well as
a representative of the ADRP coordinating body will also be invited to attend committee meetings when
ADRP issues are discussed; such discussions should occur at least once every quarter.
18 The costs associated with the CNRSPDD will be borne by the Government of Angola.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex            42
(iv)   Carrying out other activities as necessary to ensure the achievement of ADRP
objectives.
139. FAA and UNITA: In the Angolan demobilization and reintegration process, the
military side of the Government has retained responsibility for all technical military
aspects of the program. With respect to disarmament, the FAA and FMU have been
responsible for the registration, collection, storage and destruction of weapons (both in
the quartering areas and in UNITA caches scattered across the war front). With respect
to demobilization, the FAA has been responsible for registering, screening and issuing
military identity cards to ex-combatants to be demobilized; for collecting socio-economic
data about each individual ex-combatant and storing it in a secure electronic database; for
paying salaries;19 for managing camp logistics in the quartering areas until such time as
the ex-FMU are discharged; and for organizing the transportation from the quartering
areas to areas of return.
140. IRSEM: As the Government entity mandated to provide reintegration assistance
to ex-combatants, IRSEM is assuming responsibility for the ex-combatant caseload as the
ex-combatants are being discharged from the quartering areas. As such, IRSEM has been
working with the FAA on various front-loaded activities that will have a bearing on
reintegration (for example, the provision of program benefit cards and the collection of
socio-economic data). In addition, IRSEM is taking responsibility for analyzing socio-
economic data and, in conjunction with MINARS, for distributing selected transitional
assistance (including in-kind benefits and cash benefits beyond regular salaries). It has
also prepared and started to implement an information, referral and counseling service
(the Programa Nacional de Informa,ao, Sensibili,ao e Referencia-PRONAISAR) in the
quartering areas and in areas of return.
141.  The evaluation of past demobilization efforts in Angola indicates a need for the
Government to improve its institutional arrangements by establishing a national
coordinator to oversee decentralized program implementation and provide information,
communication and referral services as well as overall program monitoring and
evaluation. The institutional arrangements for the ADRP would build on these lessons.
There will be a clear division of labor between IRSEM,20 which will function as the
national coordinator, and the policy-making CNRSPDD.
142.  IRSEM's responsibilities as a national coordinator would include:
The preparation and costing of detailed annual implementation plans;
9 All ex-FMU have been integrated into the FAA pending their final demobilization and consequently are
eligible to receive FAA salaries.
20 IRSEM was created by decree in 1995, replacing GIADA, which was itself formed in response to the
provisions of the Bicesse Peace Accords of 199, and it reports formally to MINARS. IRSEM's
management is composed of representatives of the FAA and UNITA. Its Director General and one Deputy
Director are from the FAA, while the other Deputy Director is from UNITA. It has branches in every
province and its employees are civil servants.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         43
(i)   The coordination and supervision of primary contractors funded through the
ADRP to implement and/or to manage sub-contractors of reintegration sub-
projects, including sub-projects targeted on special target groups such as
underage and disabled ex-combatants, to which end IRSEM would establish
close links with relevant Government departments, the donors, UN partners,
and national and international NGOs;
(ii)   The transparent and accountable administration of ADRP resources (including
procurement and financial management); and
(iii)  Overall program monitoring and evaluation.
143.  In light of these responsibilities, IRSEM would include three departments-
Projects, Human Resources, and Administration and General Services-as well as two
specialized units (Financial Management and Procurement; and Documentation,
Monitoring and Evaluation) providing assistance directly to the Director (see Attachment
5 for organigram).
144.  The Project Department will undertake two essential functions:
*  Project Identification. The Department will be accountable for setting the
ADRP's overall strategy (i.e. identifying and formulating profiles of the types of
support service opportunities that beneficiaries could access based on economic,
supply and demand factors), identifying potential primary contractors that have
expertise to contract sub-contractors providing profiled services, evaluating
proposals forwarded by potential primary contractors, and negotiating contracts
with primary contractors to implement their programs. It is expected that
contracts signed with primary contractors will norrnally range between $200,000
and $5 million; that a particular primary contractor will have responsibility for a
range of work based either on geography-e.g. specified province-or on activity
type e.g. child protection, or medical rehabilitation; that primary contractors will
typically contract out specific service-delivery sub-projects to sub-contractors;
and that department personnel will work with primary contractors to develop
appropriate and standardized mechanisms for sub-project pre-appraisal, appraisal,
and contracting for sub-projects contracted out to sub-contractors. The
department would work closely with personnel in provincial offices.
* Project Supervision. This Department will also supervise program
implementation; authorize progress payments as agreed and warranted; evaluate
whether a project is achieving its objectives; complete a final review of any
project that has come to an end; and recommend (as appropriate) archiving or
repeating a completed project.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         44
145. The specialized Financial Management and Procurement Unit (FMPU) will
provide support and guidance to the IRSEM Director General on a day-to-day basis and
be responsible for the administration of program resources, including the IDA and MDRP
Trust Fund grants. As such, the FMPU will also report to the Ministry of Planning and to
the World Bank. The unit will include three sections:
* Procurement Section: This section will ensure that all procurement is done in
accordance with appropriate donor requirements and guidelines. In particular, the
unit will be responsible for the preparation of necessary bid documents as well as
for the procurement of goods and services. For this purpose, commercial
practices, International Competitive Bidding, National Competitive Bidding,
shopping, Quality and Cost-Based Selection, Force Account, and other
procurement methods will be used. Primary contractors will be allowed to use
their own procurement practices, following Bank review, modification (to make
them consistent with Bank guidelines), and approval.21 The Procurement Section
may also provide some assistance to partner organizations implementing sub-
projects to prepare simplified bid documents (e.g., for small-scale civil works) or
to procure some inputs such as fertilizer, medical supplies, etc. in bulk.
* Financial Management Section: This section will be responsible for disbursing
funds and maintaining records and accounts to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures of the ADRP.
To this end, it will establish and maintain an accounting, budgetary, and financial
management system adequate to provide complete, accurate, timely and relevant
information regarding ADRP activities, the utilization of resources, and the
completeness of expenditures. An Accounts Manager will be assigned to handle
the day-to-day financial transactions and accounting.
*  Internal Audit Section: This section will be managed by a Control Officer and
will be responsible for ensuring that all elements of the internal control system are
complied with. The unit will, inter alia, conduct random checking of payments
effected to various beneficiaries (if any); verify that contracts and goods or
services, etc., have been executed and delivered by various contractors and
suppliers as agreed; maintain an asset registry for the program; and ensure that the
internal procedures of IRSEM are properly applied by the staff of the institutions.
146. The specialized unit for Documentation, Monitoring and Evaluation will include
two sections:
* Management Information Section. This section will be accountable for the
collation and dissemination of information related to the ADRP, at central and
provincial levels, in order to create an awareness of the ADRP's purpose and
functions. To ensure that all data, information, and statistics are consistently
21 Bank review, modification and approval of specified contractors' procurement practices will be recorded
in the project implementation manual and the Development Grant Agreement; the manual will be
developed as a condition of effectiveness and updated as needed.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       45
recorded and available, the section will develop a robust management information
system (MIS).
*  Monitoring and Evaluation Section. This section will be accountable for
monitoring overall program progress (including in particular the
comprehensiveness of ADRP coverage) as well as the progress of sub-projects
contracted out to implementing partners. It will unclertake regular impact and
beneficiary assessments to evaluate the program's overall success and to gather
lessons that can be fed back into the system to improve service delivery and
sustainability.
5.1.2 Provincial level
147.  IRSEM has a provincial office'in each one of Angola's 18 provinces. Offices in
provinces anticipating high numbers of returning ex-combatants (viz. Benguela, Bie,
Huambo, Huila, and Kwanza Sul) will need to be strengthened following a conflict-
induced period of modest activity and downsizing. The AI)RP will help IRSEM and
provincial authorities to expand their capacity, as required strategically to cope with
retuming ex-combatants, through staffing, logistical support, and the opening of district
(municipio) offices in the key provinces of ex-combatant resettlement. Provincial
program offices will work closely with the provincial administration and the provincial
CNRSPDD; the Head of a provincial office would report to the Director of IRSEM and
Heads of provincial sub-offices will report to the Head of the relevant provincial office.
This approach would help strengthen decentralized program delivery capacity and ensure
the integration of program implementation in the Government's overall poverty reduction
strategy.
148. IRSEM's provincial offices would be responsible for:
(i)   Updating the inventory of projects and training and employment providers and
opportunities in the province;
(ii)  Conducting outreach activities, including counseling and referral as well as
business development support;
(iii)  Technical and financial monitoring of reintegration activities, especially at the
community level; and
(iv)  Coordinating ADRP and general reiintegration activities with other
Govermment and non-governmental institutions.
5.1.3 Community level
149.  Community support is critical to the reintegration of ex-combatamts. To this end,
local authorities would:
(i)   Assist in the preparation, appraisal and approval of ADRP sub-projects, and
monitor and evaluate progress;



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       46
(ii)  Help make land available to ex-combatants following established legal
procedures;
(iii) Help identify the most vulnerable ex-combatants; and
(iv)  Help resolve local conflicts.
5.1.4 Staffing, institutional support and capacity building
150.  The institutional structure for ADRP implementation requires strengthening at all
levels, both within IRSEM and outside of it. IRSEM would be strengthened through the
appointment of a Management Advisor, a Reintegration Advisor, a Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) specialist, and a Financial Management and Procurement Unit
(FMPU). Staff recruited for these key positions would have experience and
qualifications satisfactory to IDA. At provincial level, national program operations
consultants will be hired to assist the provincial heads to manage the ADRP effectively
and to monitor the work of the contractors and sub-contractors. Additional provincial
staff would be recruited in accordance with the settlement patterns of ex-combatants.
Advertised positions could be filled by qualified ex-combatants.
151.  Equipment would be provided to help each office fulfill its responsibilities
effectively. For IRSEM, this would include essential office equipment as well as
vehicles for monitoring and outreach activities. Local authorities would in principle be
eligible to receive limited institutional support necessary to carry out specific tasks
related to the program. They would be required to submit a proposal to IRSEM
explaining and specifying their requirements in detail, and IRSEM would approve a
proposal on the recommendation of its provincial officer.
152.  Staff development at the central and provincial levels would be critical for
effective program implementation. Staff at all levels would therefore undergo training.
The objectives of this training, which would commence immediately after staff have been
recruited or assigned, would be to ensure that all involved in the ADRP have the same
understanding of program objectives, procedures, and specific responsibilities, including
their tasks in relation to the internal reporting system. A staff development program
would be prepared and would include: (i) the preparation of a training plan; (ii) the
development of training materials; and (iii) the carrying out of training activities.
153.  Special capacity-building efforts and training may be required at the community
level, especially for those local authorities that are not yet benefiting from development
projects. After an assessment of their implementation needs, and using a program
implementation manual and training manual to be developed by IRSEM and the Ministry
of Territorial Administration, key representatives of local authorities may be familiarized
with program procedures and would receive required training. Finally, outreach staff
may undertake on-the-job training of relevant representatives of local authorities.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       47
5.2   Financial Management and Auditing
5.2.1 Financial Management and Procurement Unit
154. Given that the ADRP is a complex and relative large program to be implemented
over a three-year period, and that IRSEM has practically no experience with Bank
procedures, IRSEM will be strengthened through the establishment of an autonomous
Financial Management and Procurement Unit (FMPU) to be managed by an international
firm.
155. The FMPU will have overall responsibility for the ADRP's financial management
and procurement and it will maintain the program's consolidated budget and accounts. To
this end, the FMPU will be equipped with a computerized and integrated financial
management system appropriate to the scale and nature of the program and capable of
recording and reporting in a timely manner the program's operations by origin of funds,
by regions, components, activities and expenditures categories. The computerized
financial management system will be multi-currency, multi-location, and multi-donor,
and it will include inter alia the following modules (which should be integrated): general
accounting, cost accounting, budgeting, assets management, contract management,
preparation of withdrawal applications and tracking of disbursements by donors, and
report generation, including quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs) and semi-
annual financial statements.
156. The FMPU will prepare a Manual of procedures, including a description of salient
features of the financial management system and financial policies and procedures. It
will describe: (i) the overall organization of the Program, including an organizational
diagram and job description of the accounting and financial staff; (ii) the accounting
system to be used (chart of accounts, budget coding, accounting standards); (iii) the main
transactions cycles; format, content, and timing of the program's financial reporting (i.e.,
financial statements and other financial reports including FMRs, filing system, etc.); (iv)
the various operational procedures, including budget management (planning, execution
and monitoring) and management of assets, procurement of goods and services,
disbursement; and (v) internal control proceclures.
5.2.2 Financial management risks
157. Since the financial management of the Program will be entrusted to an FMPU
managed by an experienced international finn, the financial management risks are
expected to be low.
5.2.3 Staffing
158. The FMPU will be managed by a finn with relefant international experience and
a track record in similar donor-funded projects involving similarly qualified personnel.
The FMPU will be managed by a senior manager and be comprised of three units whose
total number of core staff is estimated at eight, including:



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        48
*  An Accounting and Disbursement Section (two senior accountants assisted each
by one assistant);
*  A Procurement Section (one senior procurement specialist assisted by one
assistant); and
* An Internal Audit Section (one senior internal auditor assisted by one assistant).
5.2.4  Reporting
159.  At least two sets of financial reports will be prepared by the FMPU: the quarterly
FMRs (as required by the Bank) and the Program's semi-annual financial statements.
The quarterly FMRs agreed at appraisal will be prepared and submitted to the Bank 45
days after the closing of the quarter following the date of effectiveness. The FMRs will
be based on Annex A, Sample III, as presented in the Bank's Guidelines on Financial
Monitoring Reports, with some adjustments (as agreed with IRSEM). The FMRs will
include financial, physical progress and procurement information that is useful to the
Government and that also provides the Bank with sufficient information to establish
whether: (i) funds disbursed to the project are being used for the purpose intended; (ii)
project implementation is on track; and (iii) budgeted costs will not be exceeded. The
semi-annual financial statements will comprise but not be limited to: (i) the Statement of
Source and Application of Funds for the Program during the current financial year, and
cumulatively since the start of the Program; (ii) the statement of expenditures (SOEs);
(iii) the Special Account Statement/Reconciliation; (iv) the Project Account
Statement/Reconciliation (v) the Multi-Donor Trust Fund Account and any other
financial report deemed necessary and relevant.
5.2.5 Flow of funds
160.  It is planned that resources needed for financing Program activities will flow
from: (i) the IDA Grant Account (direct payments and replenishments of the Special
Account); (ii) the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (direct payments and replenishments of the
Multi-Donor Trust Fund Account); and (iii) the Government's counterpart funds
(Program Account). The bank accounts will be maintained in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. The FMPU will prepare all the withdrawal applications for
transmission to the Ministry of Planning to effect payments. At the beginning,
disbursements will be made on the basis of the two traditional methods: direct payments
and use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Later, the Program will decide if it wants
to change from SOEs to FMR-based disbursements.
161.  An amount equivalent to $3,000,0000 will be withdrawn from the Grant Account
and deposited into the Special Account (the so-called "Authorized Allocation") provided
that, unless the Association will otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation will be
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association will be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
SDR 5,000,000. In addition, for each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special
Account, the Recipient will, at such time as the Association reasonably requests, furnish



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       49
to the Association documents and other evidence showing that the payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
162.  In implementing the program, it is envisioned that IRSEM will directly contract
various primary contractors (UN agencies, Government agencies, national and
international NGOs) that will be responsible for subcontracting secondary contractors to
implement specific reintegration activities. The amounts of the contracts signed between
IRSEM and the primary contractors will be disbursed on a quarterly basis on actual and
projected expenses, depending on the size of the funding requirement, the length of the
implementation period, and the capacity of the contractor. The initial tranche will be
followed by subsequent payments based on periodic progress reports (physical and
financial). All disbursements and financial reporting will be carried out in accordance
with the terms of the contract between IRSEM and the primary contractors, and all forms
for such transactions will be provided to the irnplementing partners as attachments to the
standard contract.
5.2.6 Audit requirements
163.  The financial statements of the Program will be alidited semi-anmually by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank in accordance with international auditing
standards. Audit reports of such scope and detail agreed by IDA would be submitted to
the Bank within three months after the end of the audit period. The auditor will provide a
separate opinion on each of the following:
* The Program financial statements (Statement of Source and Application of Funds,
explanatory notes, etc.);
* The Statement of Expenditures (SOEs);
* The Special Account (SA);
* The Program Account (PA);
*  The Multi-Donor Trust Fund Account (MDTF-SA).
164. The auditor will also provide a management letter on the internal control
procedures outlining any recommendations for improving the control system, the
accounting and financial procedures as a result of the financial statements audit.
165.  The program implementation manual will describe procedures for the entire
Program, irrespective of the source of financing. The manual would notably include the
procedures for reintegration activities, which would be based on the Bank's Guidelines
for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments.
166.  Retroactivefinancing. To facilitate timely support to demobilized ex-combatants,
the project would allow retroactive financing in the amount of $6.6 million, or 20 percent
of the Grant amount. This would apply to eligible goods or services, procured by the
Government, for which payments were made after April 4, 2002.
167. Supervision. On a quarterly basis or at such time as the Government and the Bank
deem necessary, the Government and IDA would carry out joint supervision missions.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       50
These missions would make spot checks on a small random sample of beneficiaries at
their place of residence to verify the use of the funds disbursed.
168. Safeguards to ensure the proper use offunds. Six safeguards will be built into the
Program to ensure that IDA funds are utilized for the purposes intended:
* All financial management, contracting and procurement procedures will be handled
by a quasi-independent FMPU;
* Periodic audits would verify appropriate use of funds under all categories of
expenditure;
* A unique, non-transferable, ID document will be provided to each ex-combatant and
used to verify ex-combatants' eligibility for assistance;
* The IDs will be entered into an integrated MIS that will enable IRSEM, its provincial
offices, and the FMPU to track program implementation at central and local levels;
* Annual surveys of a random sample of the beneficiary population will track program
delivery and verify their receipt of assistance; and
* Semi-annual supervision missions carried out by IDA in collaboration with interested
UN/donor partners will also review the use of funds.
5.3   Procurement
5.3.1 Procurement capacity assessment
169. The July 2002 Country Procurement Assessment Report indicates a very poor
procurement environment in Angola due to (i) fragmentation, duplication and
shortcomings in the legal framework, (ii) lack of capacity and adequate procedures in the
private and public procurement system, and (iii) inadequate practices and lack of
enforcement of the regulations. An assessment of IRSEM's procurement capacity,
completed in September 2002 in accordance with Bank's Procurement Services Policy
Group (OCSPR) guidelines, found that similar shortcomings affected IRSEM's
procurement practices. In particular, the assessment revealed deficiencies in the capacity
of IRSEM to manage procurement under the Program, as a result of both a lack of
previous experience in Bank-financed projects and IRSEM's scarce institutional capacity
(IRSEM lacks qualified staff in key procurement and financial management positions).
Even so, IRSEM has previous experience in reintegration activities and will be able to
manage ADRP procurement, using suitable implementation arrangements and the advice
and assistance of qualified procurement experts. These arrangements and key positions
are described in more detail in the following paragraphs.
5.3.2 Organizational structure
170. The ADRP is a complex program whose implementation will require strong
organizational skills and the ability to take fast and efficient procurement decisions. To
increase ADRP management capacity, the Government has agreed that most



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex        51
implementation activities would be managed through a number of primary contractors,
that would either assume full responsibility for implementing reintegration sub-projects
or would recruit secondary or sub-contractors such as selected Govemment agencies, UN
agencies, local NGOs, churches, and possibly private sector firms for implementing
them. In addition, IRSEM's own capacity for financial management and procurement
would be strengthened through recruitment of an FMPU staffed by international
specialists, including at least one intemational procurement adviser. preferably with
previous experience in demilitarization and/or emergency projects. Since most
procurement activities will be carried out by primary contractors, a key role of the FMPU
will be to recruit and select these primary contractors and coordinate and. monitor their
activities. In addition, the FMPU will have to establish priorities, prepare schedules of
activities and assure a steady flow of information to and from IRSEM, the Bank and
donors participating in ADRP.
171.  With respect to procurement, the scope of the FMPU's work will include:
* Coordinating the preparation and finalization of the terms of reference for various
consulting assignments under the project;
* Preparing the procurement plans under the program, including cost estimates and
budgets, for goods, consultancies, and training, in coordination with the primary
contractors;
* Ensuring that the recruitment and selection of primary contractors is completed in
accordance with Bank guidelines;
* Liaising with the technical units of the primary contractors responsible for the
relevant components of the ADRP and ensuring that procurement complies with
agreed procedures;
* Monitoring procurement activities under the ADRP and keeping the Bank and
participating donors informed through periodic and frequent reporting;
* Providing advice on procurement issues to IRSEM and to primary contractors and
evaluating requests for no objection from primary contractors;
* Preparing and assisting in the preparation of bid documents, requests for
proposals (RFPs), contracts and evaluation reports, consistent with the Bank's
principles of transparency and efficiency;
* Assisting and facilitating imports, customs clearance and the issuance of letters of
credit through IRSEM, coordinating with relevant Ministries;
* Preparing General Procurement Notices and local advertisements for procurement
and consulting services, as required; and
* Reviewing contractual and administrative claims and assisting in their resolution
with or without recourse to arbitration.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       52
5.3.3 Procurement plan
172.  A procurement plan for the first year will be prepared by IRSEM. The plan will
include information on the procurement of goods, consulting services and works (if any)
as well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement process. The procurement
schedule will be updated every quarter and reviewed by IDA at each supervision mission.
In addition, the FMPU will assist IRSEM in preparing a comprehensive procurement
manual, to be reviewed by IDA, for use at central and provincial offices.
5.3.4 Advertising
173. A preliminary General Procurement Notice (GPN) for goods and consulting
services has been prepared by IRSEM, reviewed by the Bank, and published in the
November 30, 2002, edition of Development Business. In parallel, in order to reach
potential suppliers, notices will be included in the Dgmarket service administered by the
Development Gateway Foundation. IRSEM and the ADRP's primary contractors, where
appropriate, will be encouraged to use this system for publication of all specific
procurement notices (SPN) to increase transparency and competition. Two new GPNs
(one for goods and one for consulting services) will be published within three months of
the conclusion of the negotiations. The GPN will be updated at least once a year and
submitted to IDA for review.
5.3.5 Procurement arrangements
174. The ADRP includes the following components: (i) economic reintegration, (ii)
social reintegration, (iii) assistance to vulnerable groups, and (iv) information,
sensitization and counseling. Each of the components will include sub-components
requiring specialized procurement expertise. IRSEM, assisted by the FMPU, will
contract out implementation responsibilities to competent national and international
primary contractors based on their specific expertise, geographic location, or both. The
primary contractors will be allowed to sub-contract some of their work to other agencies
and firms either through competition or selection on the basis of specific expertise.
175. ADRP procurement will be carried out in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IRBD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, as revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Contracts for consulting services
by firms and individuals will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997, as revised in September
1997 and January 1999). The appropriate World Bank standard bid documents and
evaluation forms will be used for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for the
procurement of goods and works. Standard Requests for Proposal (RFP) and contracts
will be used for all large assignments, and in particular those assigned under Quality and
Cost-Based Selection and Least-Price methods. Standard, simplified, bid documents,
RFPs, and contracts may be used for contracts under National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) and smaller assignments, after being reviewed and verified as acceptable by the
Bank. Contracts assigned through commercial practices, approved by the Bank, by other
international organizations and NGOs may follow the procurement formats of those



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                        53
organizations, provided that they are found to bc consistent with Bank principles of
transparency, economy and efficiency. Procurement methods and their respective
monetary thresholds, are described in Table 6 below.
Table 6: Projected project costs by procurement arrangeiments
(US$ million equivalent)
Category     ICB'     NCB      NS/IS                       Other                       Totai
No    $200,000  $100,000
limit   or less  or less
Works                 0.03                               0.1] Force account below $50,000,  0.14
quotations above $50,000
Goods and
equipment      0.66   0.22      0.16                     0.06                           1.10
Subprojects   23.20   4.00                                                .            27.20
Op. costs             0.43      0.43                                        _         ' 0.86
Consulting                             QCBS      LC        FB       CQ         SS
services                                 No    $200,000  $100,000  $200,000  $100,000
limit   or less  or iess   or less  or less, UN
Firms                                  0.60     0.06     0.06      0.18      0.30      1.20
Individuals                                    _                   0.90      0.10      1.00
Unallocated                                                                             1.50
Total        23.86    4.68  |   0.59    0.60     0.06     0.06      1.08      2.072    33.00
Notes: 1. ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding; NCB = National Competirive Bidding; NS/IS = National Shopping
or Intemational Shopping; QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; LC = Least Cost; FB = Fixed Basis; CQ =
Consultants' Qualifications; and SS = Single Source. 2. Single Source total includes Other and Unallocated.
176. Procurement of works: The ADRP may include a. small number of works, such
as the rehabilitation of facilities assisting the disabled, the construction of additional
housing or access roads, fencing, and limited maintenance and repairs, estimated to cost
US$275,000, of which IDA is expected to finance about $140,000. Works of small
monetary value ($50,000 or less) occurring in remote areas, and so entailing high
mobilization costs, may not attract international or even national construction firms;
hence such works will be executed either through a Force Account or through community
participation methods. Small works whose monetary value exceeds $50,000 and are
located in areas where competition may be available, may be procured under lump-sum
fixed-priced contracts awarded on the basis of quotations in response to a written
invitation. No General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be necessary for these works,
though any work whose amount is valued at more than $50,000 equivalent will be
advertised in the national newspaper or througb the most appropriate local means (radio,
bulletin boards in district offices, etc.).
177.   Procurement of goods: The total cost of goods under ADRP is estimated at
about $2.8 million, of which approximately $1.1 million will be funded by the proposed
Grant. Procurement will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at $100,000
equivalent or more. Procedures consistent with Bank procurement guidelines and Bank
principles of transparency, economy and efficiency will be followed throughout. These



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       54
will include conventional methods such as simplified International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) for very large packages whose delivery may be required for the second year of the
Program. Most large packages are likely to be procured under Limited International
Bidding (LIB) as an alternative to ICB, or International Shopping (IS) for smaller
packages below the monetary threshold of $100,000. Goods available locally from
several suppliers may be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
National Shopping (NS) will be used for items below the monetary threshold of
$100,000.
178.  The ADRP's primary contractors will be able to use commercial practices for
procurement, provided that these are consistent with the Bank's principles of economy
and efficiency and found acceptable by the Bank. In the case of procurement carried out
by NGOs, simple procurement methods using local manpower may be used under the
community participation procurement method. These methods will be reviewed by the
Bank and described in the Development Grant Agreement and/or the Project
Implementation Manual. Finally, given the emergency nature of the Program, direct
contracting may be used for goods for which immediate delivery is found necessary and
no competition is available, although direct contracting will be used, to the extent
possible, only for contracts pre-approved by the Bank before negotiations and described
in the DGA and Project Implementation Manual.
179.  Procurement of consulting services: The total cost of consulting services under
the program is estimated at $5.7 million equivalent, of which IDA would finance an
estimated $2.2 million. Except as described below, consulting services will be procured
through competition among qualified short-listed firms based on the Quality and Cost-
Based Selection (QCBS) method, in accordance with the provisions of section II of
Bank's Consultants Guidelines. This method will govern the recruitment of the FMPU
and a number of primary contractors. Assignments for auditing and training of an
amount inferior to $200,000 may be awarded through the Least Cost selection method,
while smaller contracts for repetitive, simple activities, where the budget is fixed and the
estimated amount is lower than $100,000, may be procured through the Fixed Budget
selection method.
180.  It is expected that many consultancy contracts will be valued at less than
$100,000, and will not attract a great deal of competition due to the Angolan context and
limited Portuguese speakers working in this sector. Therefore, such assignments will be
awarded through the Consultants Qualifications method, as described in section 3.7 of the
Consultants Guidelines. Assignments for which UN agencies, NGOs or bilateral
agencies have particular expertise may also be awarded in accordance with sections 3.13
(Selection of U.N. Agencies as consultants) and 3.14 (Use of Nongovernmental
Organizations) of the Consultants Guidelines. Even so, whenever competition is
possible, procedures similar to those used for selection through Qualifications will be
used. In a few cases, UN agencies and NGOs may be hired on a Single Source selection
basis, i.e. whenever the criteria outlined in section 3.9 of the Consultants Guidelines are
fulfilled. Once a contract has been awarded to a UN agency and/or an NGO, the agency
or NGO will be allowed to recruit other consultants through their own procurement
methods or through commercial practices acceptable to the Bank, in accordance to



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                       55
section 3.12 of the Consultants Guidelines. Selection of individual consultants will be
completed in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of section V of the
Consultants Guidelines. Finally, to ensure that priority is given to the identification of
suitable and qualified national consultants, short-lists for contracts estimated to cost
$100,000 for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent or less for individual consultants
may be comprised entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
181.   IDA will finance approximately $860,000 of operational costs related to project
implementation, management, training or monitoring, which includes office supplies,
equipment maintenance, communication costs, vehicle opeiation, travel and supervision
costs, and locally-hired staff, but excludes the salaries of officials of the Government's
civil service.
5.3.6 Review by the Bank
182.   Prior review: Prior to commencing any procurement activity for goods, works or
consulting services under the program, a procurement plan will be presented to the Bank
for its review and approval. The proposed plan for the selection of consultants will also
be reviewed in accordance with the provision of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Consultants Guidelines. The first three packages for goods, works or consulting services,
irrespective of their value, will be reviewed by IDA in accordance with the Bank's prior
review procedures. IDA prior review procedures will applyt to each contract of goods and
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more. The Bank will review the
terms of reference (ToR) for all consulting services, each contract for services above
$100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals, and all proposed single source contracts.
183.   Post review: With respect to each contract not subject to prior review, post
review will be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines. That is, the Government will furnish to the Bank,
promptly after signing and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds, one copy of such contract, together with the bid evaluation and
recommendations for award. Where payments for the contract are to be made by the
Special Account, a copy of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the first
Table 7: Thresholds for prior review
Category               Procurement method     Contract value          Prior review for:
Works                  ICB                    Any value               Contract
NCB, NSIIS, Other      $1 00,000 or more       Contract
Goods                  ICB                    Any value               Contract
NCB, NS/IS, Other      $100,000 or more        Contract
Consultant firms       QCBS, LC, CQ           S 100,000 or more       ToR, report, contract
Single source          Any value              ToR, report, contract
Consultant individuals  CQ                    $50,000 or more        ToR, report, contract
Single source          Any value               ToR, report, contract
Note: ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding; NCB = National Competitive Bidding; NS/IS = National Shopping or Intemational
Shopping; QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; LC = Least Cost; FB = Fixed Basis; CQ = Consultants' Qualifications; and SS
= Single Source.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         56
replenishment application for the same. These provisions will not apply to contracts for
which withdrawal from the loan are to be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures. In this case, the documentation required will be retained by the Borrower
for subsequent examination by independent auditors and Bank supervision missions. The
FMPU will make sure that such documentation is safely kept on IRSEM's premises and
made available for formal review by the Bank.
5.4 Monitoring and Evaluation
184.  A strong monitoring and evaluation system, complemented with close Bank
supervision, would seek to ensure that the program reaches targeted beneficiaries in a
timely and efficient fashion. It is essential that information on all beneficiaries is
captured during the initial demobilization process, securely stored, and subsequently
utilized to inform program implementation.22 A Management Information System (MIS)
would be established by IRSEM that draws upon the FAA registration database for this
purpose before Grant effectiveness.
185. Establishment of a Management Information System. In general, a well-
functioning MIS is a valuable management tool for any undertaking, but for a
demobilization and reintegration program such a tool is essential given the need to
closely track beneficiaries and document provision of targeted benefits. Furthermore,
MIS can provide monitoring data on beneficiaries and activities that can serve as an
important input into the planning of subsequent demobilization phases. The ADRP MIS
would be established with simplicity in design and using hardware and software for
which expertise is readily available locally. Additionally, and to keep track of the
utilization of program funds, it would be related to the financial management system.
186.  Monitoring would be undertaken by IRSEM at three levels: the central office, the
provincial offices, and at the community level. IRSEM's Documentation unit would
collect information during and following demobilization operations, when ex-combatants
complete the socio-economic profile, report for transitional assistance, and apply for
reintegration assistance. IRSEM would track the provision of assistance to the ex-
combatants throughout the life of the program. In addition, within six months of the
Effectiveness date and annually thereafter, or upon the request of the Association,
surveys of a representative sample of a minimum of three percent of program
beneficiaries would be conducted to verify that they (i) have received reintegration
benefits in accordance with the semi-annual work program and budget of the program
and (ii) have acquired the goods and services intended.
187. Evaluation. Independent evaluations of program implementation would be carried
out annually and would consist of quantitative and qualitative parts. An analysis of the
databases and existing administrative records and reports would establish to what extent the
program as such, as well as the individual components, have achieved their objectives. As
the integration of ex-combatants into communities is a major factor for the long-term
22 Specific procedures for registering vulnerable ex-combatants would be included in the Program
implementation manual.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex                       57
success of the program, the statistical evaluation would be complemented with a
beneficiary assessment consisting of participant observation and key informant and focal
group interviews. It would be directed towards the ex-combatants and their families as
primary beneficiaries and the communities as secondary beneficiaries.
188.   Performance indicators. IRSEM would measure Program perfonnance against
the agreed performance indicators specified below (see Table 8).
Table 8. Key Performance Indicators
Component                             Key Performance Indicators
* About 85,000 ex-FMU ex-combatants are demobilized by December 31, 2002.
* An additional estimated 20,000 ex-FMU ex-combatants are identified, registered
and demobilized by March 31, 2003.
Demobilization  * About 33,000 FAA ex-combatants are demobilized by December 31, 2005.
* Each demobilized ex-combatant has received a discharge certificate and is included
in the MIS database.
* Each demobilized ex-FMU ex-combatant has received his or her full transitional
assistance package within six months of demobilization.
. At least 20,000 demobilized ex-cornbatants receive targeted reintegration assistance
in each full year of program operation.
Reintegration   * Average costs for reintegration assistance do not exceed US$700 equivalent.
* At least 50% of those demobilized are involved in some form of economic activity
within 3 months of having receiveci reintegration. assistance.
* Each demobilized disabled ex-combatant has started to receive medical
Special target    rehabilitation assistance within 18 months of dernobilization.
groups          * Each demobilized underage ex-combatant has received targeted reintegration
assistance within 6 months of demobilization.
* The six key provincial IRSEM offices are fully c(perational within three months of
Project effectiveness and all 18 provincial IRSEM offices are fully operational
within nine months of project effectiveness, in accordance with criteria set forth in
the Program Implementation Manual.
Implementation  a First round of primary-contractor contracts are finalized within four months of
Arrangements       Project effectiveness.
* An independent evaluation is carried out annually, including through the use of
beneficiary opinion polls, in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the
Association..
5.5     Program Sustainability
189.   The ADRP is designed to aid the sustainable social and economic reintegration of
ex-combatants. In this regard, it would make a positive contribution to the socio-
economic status of ex-combatants, their families and their communities of settlement.
The program would also foster micro-economic recovery by transforming ex-combatants
into positive economic actors and injecting financial resources at the local level.
Furthermore, the program would encourage national reconciliation and empower
communities by providing incentives for cooperation and strengthening local authorities.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex       58
Although IRSEM and the CNRSPDD are expected to be temporary structures, the
program would strengthen Government capacities at the provincial and local levels for
developing, managing and monitoring development interventions.
6     Benefits and Risks
6.1   Benefits
190.  The program should enable the Government to consolidate its social and
economic recovery efforts and overcome the setbacks attributable to the conflict. The
program is designed to facilitate and expedite the process of returning about 138,000 ex-
combatants to productive social and economic life. The return of a relatively large
percentage of the labor force to the civilian economy is expected to inject significant
human resource capacity into the labor market. Their dispersion, and the provision of
assistance throughout the country, could contribute to a regeneration of rural productive
and financial markets.
6.2   Risks and Mitigation Measures
191.  The key risk is that the ADRP is deemed not to be credible, either by the
Govemment or by UNITA, with the result that one or the other party abandons the
program. As a consequence of the Govemment's 2002 military victories over the FMU,
the change in UNITA leadership, the exhaustion of UNITA forces following a decade of
increasing national and intemational isolation, and the commitment of both the
Govemment and UNITA to the post-Luena peace process, it is unlikely that war will
resume, but residual banditry perpetrated by disgruntled ex-combatants is possible. To
mitigate this risk, the ADRP preparation team is consulting closely with all stakeholders,
including the UNITA Management Commission, to ensure that their concems are known
and addressed in the program.
192.  Recent activity, including government and donor preparation of a partial
demobilization plan in May 2002 to assist FMU indicate a risk of uncoordinated activity
that could undermine the ADRP and the peace process more generally. This risk is being
mitigated through close collaboration between the Govemment and the MDRP partners
in the preparation and supervision of the ADRP. Closer communications fostered by the
Bank's own efforts to strengthen its presence in Angola through a new Country Manager
and Senior Operations Officer should also help mitigate against such actions on the part
of Govemment.
193.  There is also a risk of resource mismanagement, whether this involves the leakage
of ADRP resources to unintended purposes through corruption, or the failure to translate
savings in increased long and medium term military expenditure into increased social and
economic spending. To mitigate this risk, appropriate safeguards with respect to
financial management, procurement and disbursement are being developed. In addition,
Government expenditures will be carefully monitored by IDA and by the bilateral
partners that are active in Angola and part of the MDRP.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         59
194.  There is also a risk that the Multi-Donor Trust Fund associated with the MDRP
will not provide sufficient resources to cover the funding gsap fully. To mitigate this risk,
donor contributions to the MDTF have been sought before Board presentation. If
sufficient partner funds were nonetheless not forthcoming, ADRP parameters would be
adjusted to the available resources.
195.  Finally, there is an extemnal risk that events in the greater Great Lakes region will
drag Angola back into conflict. There is a clear link between improved security in
Angola and in the sub-region', the timing of troop withdrawal from the Great Lakes
conflicts, and the timing and scale of the demobilization of other armed forces operating
in the greater Great Lakes region. Armed alliances involving Angola and other countries
in the greater Great Lakes region are currently largely donnant, but in the event of a
collapse of the peace process and resumption of hostilities within Angola or in the sub-
region, IDA would consider exercising its remedies under the legal agreement. Even if
large-scale violent conflict did not resume, delays in the irnplementation of the peace
process might affect the implementation of the program.
6.3   Environmental and Social Aspects
196.  Building on lessons learned from reintegration programs for displaced persons
and ex-combatants in Angola and elsewhere, the program contains a number of specific
elements to identify social and environmental risks and devise appropriate mitigation
measures. The procedures and measures would be detailed in the Program
Inplementation Manual (see Attachment 7 for a detailed description of social and
environmental management arrangements). Measures aiming to mitigating social
impacts of the program include: (i) ensuring that there is no involuntary resettlement or
displacement; (ii) carrying out specific social reintegration activities; and (iii) carrying
out activities targeted at underage ex-combatants.
197.  The program is classified as environmental category B, although the phased and
widely dispersed reintegration of 138,000 ex-combatants into civilian life is expected to
be environmentally neutral. Furthermore, the program will not finance the construction
or rehabilitation of infrastructure other than the possible small-scale rehabilitation of
certain (pre-existing) medical rehabilitation centers. Environmental mitigation measures
under the program include the screening and monitoring c,f sub-projects financed under
the reintegration component for environmental impact acc:ording to the procedures,
acceptable to IDA, set up by the Ministry of the Environment.
198. The ADRP will seek to promote participatory social and environmental
monitoring. Annual evaluations would include an assessrment of, among others: the
procedures to access land; the occurrence of involuntary displacement or resettlement;
the degree of community acceptance; the existence of discrimination on the basis of
gender or previous military affiliation; the level of personal security of ex-combatants;
the level of criminal activities undertaken by ex-combatants; and the impact on an ex-
combatant's family members. These evaluations would help to identify social and
environmental impact, determine the appropriateness of procedures and processes, and
make recommendations for improvements where necessaly.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - Technical Annex         60
7     Financial and Economic Justification
199.  Macro-economic context. An analysis of defense expenditure in relation to key
economic and financial data permits an assessment of the potential long-term impact of
military downsizing on social and economic development. Three main sources have been
used: (i) GDP and other macroeconomic data, with projections for 2003; (ii) the FAA
salary structure; and (iii) data on expenditure from the Ministry of Finance.
200. Analysis of defense expenditure. Given the high levels of extrabudgetary spending
in Angola, expenditure data by functional classification are not always reliable. Even so,
it has been estimated that, as a result of the continuing insecurity, defense spending in
Angola reached as much as one-third of total Government spending in 1998 and 1999,
before falling to as low as one-sixth in 2001. It also appears that, between 1996 and
2001, total defense spending exceeded social spending, in some cases by a wide margin.
Even today, defense expenditures continue to be a significant burden on the national
budget and limit the Govemment's ability to implement its poverty reduction strategy.
201.  It is expected that the overall trend of declining expenditures, which began in
1998, will continue through the life of the ADRP. A comparison of preliminary budget
execution data for 2002 and projected spending for 2003 indicates a small increase in
public spending on defense and public order in 2003, from 16.8 percent to 17.0 percent of
the total (see Table 1 below). This is due in part to a peacetime increase in spending on
public order23 that has offset a corresponding relative decrease in defense spending; and
in part to Govemment spending, through the FAA budget, to meet its obligations under
the April 2002 MoU to absorb 105,000 ex-FMU ex-combatants into the FAA and assume
the costs of their demobilization and reinsertion. From 2004, the Govemment expects to
resume reducing overall spending on defense and public order over the medium term,
with the resultant savings being reallocated to higher spending for service delivery.
Table 1: Government Spending by Functional Classification
as a Percentage of Total Govemment Spending, 2000 - 2003
2000        2001        2002      2003 (budget)
Administration                15.5        29.1        23.3         19.0
Defense and Public Order      18.9        16.2        16.8         17.0
Social Sectors                13.7        20.3        15.9         16.0
Economic Sectors              6.3         8.1         7.0           9.0
Debt Service                  45.7        26.2        37.0         39.0
Total                         100         100         100           100
Source: 2003 Angola State Budget.
202. Impact of demobilization. This analysis of the impact of demobilization is based
on several assumptions24, and is therefore only indicative. The incorporation of the ex-
FMU into the FAA in August 2002 resulted in the temporary addition of some 85,500
23 This reflects the extension of Government control over all national territory for the first time in decades.
24 In particular, it is assumed that there will be a net demobilization of 105,000 UNITA soldiers in late 2002
and early 2003, 11,000 FAA in mid-2003, 11,000 FAA in mid-2004, and 11,000 FAA in mid-2005.



Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program - 'echnicalAnnex           61
soldiers to the FAA payroll, at a total cost to the Government of about $26.7 million. A
net reduction in force will occur only after approximately 80,000 of these ex-FMU are
demobilized (anticipated in early 2003) and the first FAA begin to be demobilized.
Assuming that the 33,000 FAA are demobilized in annual tranches of 11,000, Angola's
defense expenditure for personnel costs alone would be reduced by approximately
US$48.8 million over the period 2003 to 2005.
203. Analysis of alternatives. The Government's proposal, and the IDA appraisal of it,
have taken into consideration various alternatives in ADRP design. The final design is
based on best practices and responds to the specific requirements of the situation in
Angola. It aims to establish a structured approach to demobilization as compared to a
simple discharge from the FMU or the FAA. The externalities of HIV/AIDS counseling
prior to the ex-combatants' return to their communities, along with the benefit of
providing some transitional assistance (in the form of kits and cash payments) to facilitate
the re-establishment of households and to avoid social tensions, are judged to exceed the
related costs. With respect to economic reintegration, the program's design attempts to
minimize interference with market forces and to maximize the choice of the individual
and synergies with ongoing interventions. Furthermore, economic reintegration measures
would be based on the socio-economic profile of the ex-combatants, their own efforts and
aspirations, and the specific opportunity structure in their communities of return.
204.  Cost-effectiveness analysis. The program design seeks to minirnize costs without
compromising quality. Whenever possible, existing structures would be used rather than
new parallel systems created. For example, with respect to the implementation of
reintegration assistance, agencies that are already providing assistance of a similar kind
will be contracted to provide assistance specifically targeted on ex-cornbatants; this
marginal expansion in the scope of their activities will be much more cost-effective than
creating new institutions that would operate in parallel. In the same vein, the existing
provincial administrations would be charged with monitoring program implementation.
Furthermore, the strengthening of capacities at the local level is expected to have a high
payoff for implementing community-driven development projects generally. Finally,
with overall per capita cost of approximately $1,200 equivalent, the costs of the ADRP
are well within the range of comparable programs in Sub-Saharan Africa.
205.  Cost-benefit analysis. It is instructive to compare the total cost of the Program
(US$180 'million) with the direct savings in recurrent cost to the Govemment's budget
from the reduction in force of 33,000 soldiers:, plus the savings in operating costs
associated with these troops and the war waged on UNITA25. Compared to the
counterfactual26, the reduction in force would save $97.7 million during the Program's
three-year duration and $48.8 million annually thereafter. Fiscal savings from
demobilization Would thus exceed Program costs in slightly less than five years. This
calculation does not take into account productivity gains and benefits to the communities
and households of the returning ex-combatants who will enter productive life again.
25 For the purposes of analysis, the operation, maintenance and material costs for these 33,000 troops is
assumed to be the equivalent of personnel costs for these same troops.
26 The share of military expenditure in Government rec.urrent expencliture remains constant at 17 percent.



Attachment I
Summary Program Costs
Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program
Estimated Program Costs (USS)
Cornponent                            Unit cost  Jul-Dec 02        Jan-Jun 03    Jul-Dec 03    Jan-Jun 04    Jul-Dec 04    Jan-Jun 05   Jul-Dec 05  Jan-Jun 06         Total     %
Denobilization & Discharge (I)                                           -             -             -             -            -             -           -              -      0%/.
Reinsertion                                      59,616,000         8,424,000     3,300,000          -             -            -             -           -       71,340,000   40%
Economnic Reintegration                                -            3,947,341    18,284,675    15,805,654    11,924,607    4,606,684          -           -       54,568,961   3 0%
Social Reintegration                                    -            415,000        680,000      787,500       630,000       368,750      268,750                  3,150,000    2%
Reintegration of Vulnerable                       1,600,000         5,581,250     9,487,500     9,137,500     4,256,250    1,562,500          -           -       31,625,000   18%
Info, Sensttiz., Couns., & Ref.                        -             223,500        211,000      211,000       211,000       211,000      211,000     211,000       1,489,500   1%
IRSEM (capital)                                        -                 -        1,913,000          -             -            -             -           -         1,913,000   1%
IRSEM (recurrent)                                   387,829         1,058,737     1,058,737     1,058,737     1,058,737    1,058,737     1,058,737    387,829      7,128,080    4%/
Sub-total                                        61,603,829        19,649,828    34,934,912    27,000,391    18,080,594    7,807,671     1,538,487    598,829     171,214,541  95%
Contingencies                            5.0%     3,080,191          982,491      1,746,746     1,350,020      904,030       390,384       76,924      29,941      8,560,727    5%
Total                                            64,684,020        20,632,320    36,681,658    28,350,411    18,984,624    8,198,054     1,615,412    628,770     179,775,268  100%
(I) Estimated cosu for demobilization and discharge (including ransport) difficult to establish however. niajority of COts bomrn by GoA with some humiaitian commnnity assistance
IDA Disbursemnent Projections by Fiscal Year
%                      5%                           35%                        45%                        15%                     100%/l
S                             1,660,121                  11,620,844                  14,941,086                4,980,362     33,202,413
Total Cost                           Financ ing                           Estimated
ADRP Components                    (USS)          GOA             IDA            MDTF           Other        forex
1. Demob. & Discharge                    -             -                -
2. Reinsertion                     71,340,000    71,340,000             -              -
3. Econ. Reintegration             54,568,961     1,309,655       21,827,584    31,431,722                  27,284,481
4. Social Reintegration             3,150,000       94,500          1,260,000     1,795,500                  1,260,000
5. Reint. of Vulnerable            31,625,000      199,238         3,795,000     11,818,263   15,812,500    15,812,500
6. Info., Sensit, Couns & Ref       1,489,500       80,433           670,275       738,792          -         372,375
7. Proram Manslement                9,041080       259,366         4,068,486     4,713,228          -        7,259,060
sub-total   171,214,541    73,283,192       31,621,345    50,497,504    15,812,500    51,988,416
8. Unallocated                      8,560,727     3,664,160        1,581,067     2,524,875       790,625     2,599,421
=_Total 1        179 77_5,268        7     6,947,3 33,202,413   53,022,379     =           54,587,836
%ofTotal|          1   |         43%1              18%|          29%1           9%1         30   __



63
Attachment 2
ADRP Beneficiaries
Target Group           Demobilized   Discharged       Not       Others      Total
___ ___ ___ __ D is c a e d _ _ _ _
New         FMU (registered          85,000           0            0         0       85,000
caseload    as of 8/2/02)                                             .      _
(post-MoU)  FMU (newly              20,000            0            0         0       20,000
registered as of
1/26/03)                                                        _    .     -
._______     FAA                                   8, 415      24,585         O       33,000
TOTAL                              105,000         8,41        24,585        0      138,000



Attachment 3
A Comparison of Transitional Safety Nets
Country 1/        Estimated amount  Calculation       Duration           Differentiation  Payment            Cash payment
($) 2/                                                                  modalities        method
Angola 2002       300 - 900         basic needs &      6 months         rank               cash and in-kind  lump-sum
salary
Chad 1992         560 - 670         Salary             12 months         rank              cash              5 installments
Chad 1996         860 - 1,480       Salary             12 months         rank             cash               5 installments
Djibouti 1995     1,000 - 2,000     Salary             6-12 months      location of service  cash           lump-sum
Eritrea 1993      400 - 800 - 1,600                                      duration of service  cash          lump-sum
Ethiopia 1991     46 - 160 3/       basic needs        6-7 months        multiple 6/       cash and in-kind  lump-sum/7
installments
Ethiopia 2000     350 -420- 460     basic needs        12 months         disability       cash               3 installments
Mozambique 1994   760 (cash: 500) 4/  Salary           24 months         rank             cash and in-kind   13 installments
Namibia 1990      490 3/51          basic needs, salary  9-12 months     employment status, cash and in-kind  lump-sum
faction
Rwanda 1997       750 - 1,600       basic needs        10 months         rank             cash               3 installments
Rwanda 2002       110 - 450 - 1,100  basic needs       6 months          rank, faction    cash and in-kind   1-3 installments
Sierra Leone 1999  300              basic needs       6 months           none             cash               2 installments
Uganda 1992       845 (cash: 560)   basic needs        6 months          none             cash and in-kind   2-3 installments
1/     Start date of program
2/     Excluding administration; approximate amounts due to exchange rate fluctuations.
3/     Cash component only.
4/     Average amount.
5/     Post-discharge salary payments to SWATF ex-combatants not included.
6/     Duration of service, location of settlement, disability, access to other benefits (pension, civil service).
7/     Core package only (irrespective of rank).
Source: Kostner 2001 for all lines except Angola, where source is Government of Angola.



Attachment 4(a)
IRSEM Overall Organizational Structure
GENERAL DIRECTOR
ADJUNCT                                                         ADJUNCT
GNERAL DIRECTOR                                                 GENERAL DIRECTOR
_ _   BUREAU FOR               G GNERAL DIRECTOR_
DOCUMENTATION                SUPPORT UNIT
MONITORING AND
EVALUATION
OTHER GENERAL
DIRECTOR SUPPORT
UNIT (DGFA)
PRJECT T                                 ADMINISTRA TION N                               HUMANE
DEPARAREA                               GENERAL SERVICES                             RESOURC
ADRPDEPARTMENT                                                                  TMENT
F          I
.       ~~A-CCOUN TI NG         r-GENERAL         F    LABOR          PERSO NN EL
AND FINANCIAL             SECRETARIAT      RELATIONS UNIT     AND SALARIES
MANAGEMENT                                                       UNIT



Attachment 4(b)
IRSEM Organizational Structure/BDM&E
|6IRSEM General Director |
, 1-xF * 'gI a-aMBureau Aos
OTHM                n   iiPPORT         |  DocumenUrSr,
UNITS UGFA, etc)                        |Monitorirng and
Prna DaEvaluation
i_._._._._._.
LINE DEPARTMENTSIDMAdio!
J        r                              ,~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. .......
|M&E Team  ||MSTa 
Leader               Leader
MIS Systems
Consuitant 
!or Field|n,              User Support 1 ||         |  Database
Monitoring Oflicer |   |  Analyst  | |Network admin  |  aanrSal| | Admin.sbrator
N
i Provincial DPStaf
i       ~~~~~Monitoring  I
i   _   ~~~~Officers  I
I~~~~~~ Dat
1,~~~~~ Staf
| '| EntryStaff 1 ~~. ........ .. .......... ....
P5rovindail DME Staff



67
S 1 WF 0~~~*I
E        El            A             |
.2                 ISI}  lS 
CC~~~~'B         1rg      it .p 



68
Attachment 6
Social and Environmental Safeguard Arrangements
The Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program (ADRP) aims to
demobilize a large number of ex-combatants and support their reintegration into civilian
life. To enhance the chance of success, the ADRP needs, properly to address a range of
social and environmental aspects. The objective of this analysis is to identify important
social and environmental dimensions, summarize the social and environmental
management arrangements under the Program, outline targeted monitoring and evaluation
activities, and propose institutional capacity-building activities.
1.    Social and Environmental Dimensions
1.1   Successful long-term reintegration of ex-combatants can make a major
contribution to conflict resolution and the restoration of social capital, while failure to
achieve reintegration can lead to crime and insecurity and also increase the risk of
resumed conflict. Reintegration takes place at the community level, and the perceptions,
attitudes and organizational capacity of communities to receive and support ex-
combatants become a major factor for determining the success or failure of a
demobilization and reintegration program.
1.2   Ex-combatants may face profound social reintegration problems. There may be a
generalized fear that ex-combatants are merely conveyers of violence, crime and sexually
transmitted diseases. Communities may then resent support provided to what is
perceived as an overly privileged group. Ex-combatants may be discriminated against on
the basis of previous military affiliation. Their personal security may be at risk,
especially if they committed atrocities in the communities to which they return.
1.3   Female ex-combatants who have become accustomed to a more independent way
of life in the military may struggle to adapt to the expectations of traditional
communities. Female partners of ex-combatants and their children who migrate to
communities of other ethnic, linguistic and/or cultural backgrounds may be rejected. Last
but not least, the years of development children lose to soldiering profoundly affect their
future identity.
1.4   Ex-combatants may also exert pressure on the natural resource base, especially in
communities with high population densities. Community members may be involuntarily
displaced or ex-combatants involuntarily resettled to communities that are not of their
choice. Traditional tenure arrangements may bar female ex-combatants from access to
land. Ex-combatants may start income-generating activities that, if uncontrolled, may
lead to overgrazing, deforestation or improper waste management.
2.    Social and Environmental Management Arrangements
2.1   Building on lessons from reintegration programs for displaced persons and ex-
combatants in Angola and elsewhere, the ADRP contains a number of specific elements
to identify social and environmental risks and devise appropriate mitigation measures.



69
The procedures and measures will be spelt out in detail in the Program Implementation
Manual.
2.2   Access to land. The program would seek to facilitale access of ex-combatants to
land in areas of return in accordance with local land tenure systems and with support
from local authorities. The following principles would be applied: (i) the program would
not bear the cost of land acquisition; (ii) ex-combatants will be free to settle in the
community of their choice; (iii) no citizen would be compelled to cede any land to an ex-
combatant; (iv) thus there would be no involuntary displacement of civilians as a result of
ex-combatants settling in a community. More permanent solutions to minimize land
tenure disputes are being publicly discussed in the context of a bill which will be
presented to Parliament.
2.3   While landmines are considered a potential obstacle to fully reclaiming
agriculture land, it is felt that local populations have general knowledge of the
whereabouts of landmines and can avoid these aLreas until such time as they are made safe
through specialized agency programs. In response, the project will provide priority
institutional support to local-level service providers, as necessary, through small capital
investments and technical assistance from the primary contractors.
2.4   Social reintegration. The principle objective of social reintegration assistance
would be to ease the return of ex-combatants into civilian life while promoting
reconciliation and harmony. Given that the number of years that the ex-FMU have spent
in military service is on average more than ten, many have only known war in their adult
life. This fact, coupled with the lack of previous work experience and low educational
levels of many of the former soldiers, will require social support starting in the quartering
areas and following them to their return communities.
2.5   Facilitators already working with ex-combatants in the context of IRSEM's
PRONAISAR pre-discharge orientation will undertake acti vities to promote the social
reintegration process. Activities to be supported will include:
(i)   Community-level sensitization and confidence-building programs;
(ii)  Awareness-raising programs focusecd on civic rights and responsibilities;
(iii)  Landmine awareness programs;
(iv)  Information and counseling on sexually transmitted diseases (STDs),
HIV/AIDS, health and sanitation;
(v)   Media campaigns through radio, posters, pampblets and print media;
(vi)  Conflict analysis and reconciliation activities in areas of real or potential
tension to develop concrete interventions to diffuse potential conflict; and
(vii)  Community activities (cultural, sporting events or work projects) which
promote social cohesion and help to rebuild social capital in return
communities.
2.6   While some of these activities may be sub-contracted at a national level to
networks of civil society groups or media, most social reintegration sub-projects will be
supported at the provincial level. A social reintegration facilitating organization may be



70
engaged to promote and identify projects at local level in consultation with IRSEM at the
provincial level.
2.7   Gender. On the basis of a partial survey of ex-FMU completed to date, it appears
unlikely that the number of female ex-combatants to be demobilized will be sizeable (of
some 78,000 surveyed, only 320, or 0.4 percent, were female). Even so, given the
experiences of other demobilization and reintegration programs, the ADRP would
provide targeted support for the social and economic reintegration of female ex-
combatants. Specific measures would include the following:
(i)   Ensuring that all benefits for ex-combatants are equal for and equally
accessible to men and women;
(ii)  Including partners of ex-combatants and women in communities of return
in community-level counseling activities; and
(iii)  Monitoring the impact of the program on partners of ex-combatants and
women in communities of return and bringing emerging problems to the
attention of the relevant authorities.
2.8   Disabled ex-combatants. Initial available data on the ex-FMU in the quartering
areas indicates a low percentage of disabled (less than six percent), which is inconsistent
with reports from both forces as well as historical data on the conflict in Angola and in
other countries. It has therefore been assumed, by both parties, that a large number of
disabled ex-FMU ex-combatants did not participate in the quartering exercise. The FAA
is currently visiting those areas where the ex-FMU have indicated that their disabled are
or were residing. The Government will provide updated estimates of the total number of
disabled to be supported under the program before effectiveness.
2.9   To date, only limited medical and economic assistance has been provided to
disabled ex-combatants. The ADRP would provide assistance for medical rehabilitation
depending on the degree of disability, and including the provision of physical
rehabilitation assistance (prosthesis and orthesis), counseling, vocational training and/or
support for micro-enterprise activities. Furthermore, the ADRP would seek to reinforce
key medical facilities (such as the provincial orthopedic workshops in or near areas of
return) to provide systematic prosthetic and physiotherapy services, including
maintenance of prosthetic devices, to ex-combatants.
2.10  The program would also seek systematically to address the medical needs of
chronically ill ex-combatants. The program would endeavor to ensure access to medical
care and counseling for chronically ill ex-combatants for up to 12 months after
demobilization. After this period, the program would transfer responsibility for these ex-
combatants to relevant health authorities. In cases where ex-combatants are too ill or too
severely disabled to pursue economic activities themselves, the program would support
the deferral of program benefits to a family member identified by the ex-combatant.
2.11  Underage ex-combatants. In close coordination with MINARS and the child
protection network, the ADRP will support assistance to underage soldiers and other
minors associated with both armed forces in accordance with the Cape Town Principle



71
definition of "child soldier". The Government currently estimates that there are
approximately 6,000 ex-FMU underage soldiers, but this number needs to be confirmed.
Based on previous Angolan and international experiences, and taking into consideration
the criteria established under the Cape Town Principle, the actual number may be
considerably higher. Implementing partners., including UJNICEF, Christian Children's
Fund, Save the Children UK, and church groups, are expected to provide assistance to the
reintegration of underage ex-combatants, which would include family tracing and
unification, trauma counseling and psycho-social care, and facilitation of access to
education and recreation in communities of settlement. Children older than 15 years may
have different needs and would receive appropriate support (e.g., for vocational training).
The program of assistance will be jointly developed by the child protection network
(CPN) and it is expected that the CPN will be able to provide complementary financial
support for this sub-component of the ADRP.
2.12  Environmental classification. The program is classified as environmental
category B, although the phased and widely dispersed reintegration of 138,000 ex-
combatants into civilian life is expected to be environmentally neutral. Furthermore, the
program will not finance the construction or rehabilitation of infrastructure other than the
possible small-scale rehabilitation of certain medical rehabilitation centers.
Environmental mitigation measures under the program include the screening and
monitoring of sub-projects financed under the reintegration component for environmental
impact according to the procedures, acceptable to IDA, set up by the Government.
2.13 Environmental screening. The ADRP would provide reintegration support to ex-
combatants in the form of sub-projects in the areas of agricultural activities, community
works, training, and promotion of income-generating activities. Comnnunity works
activities and income-generating activities would be screened for environmental impact.
The objective of environmental screening would be to minimize the negative
environmental impacts of the Program. The screening procedures will be tailored to the
small-scale nature of community works and income-generating activities, examining the
potential for impacts and identifying any mitigation measures. The focus of the screening
would be on the following issues: health, water and sanitation, natural resource
exploitation, erosion, pesticide use and any other safeguard-related issue. The screening
will also assess the potential environmental impact of community works and income-
generating activities on neighboring communities. In case of wider negative
environmental impact, actions would be agreed upon with the relevant local
administrations.
3.    Social and Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation
3.1   The ADRP will seek to promote participatory social and environmental
monitoring. Annual evaluations would include an assessment of, among other things:
the procedures governing access to land; the occurrence of involuntary displacement or
resettlement; the degree of community acceptance; the existence of discrimination on the
basis of gender or previous military affiliation; the level of personal security of ex-
combatants; the level of criminal activities undertaken by ex-combatants; and the impact
on an ex-combatant's family members. The evaluations would help to identify social and



72
environmental impact, determine the appropriateness of procedures and processes, and
make recommendations for improvements where necessary.
3.2   Social assessment. Shortly after Grant effectiveness and building on relevant
preparatory activities (preparation of the sensitization program and of the pre-discharge
orientation), a social assessment will be undertaken and will include the following:
(i)   A stakeholder analysis;
(ii)  An institutional capacity diagnostic;
(iii) The development of a public consultation mechanism as part of the ADRP's
sensitization program; and
(iv)  The design of a participatory monitoring and evaluation framework.
3.3   The social assessment will help identify the social and cultural structure of
incentives and constraints that guide and govern behavior with respect to building social
cohesion and promoting the sustainable use of natural resources. Furthermore, it will
help determine the relevant social indicators for participatory monitoring, including on
the social exclusion of returning ex-combatants.
3.4   Information will be distributed horizontally (especially important for the
beneficiaries and in general for sake of transparency) and vertically in the management
structure of the Program. Information will be readily available for assembly and analysis
into periodic monitoring and evaluation reports. The Program's computerized
Management Information System is built around these parameters.
3.5   Independent evaluations. A special Program element would be annual
evaluations of environmental and social indicators as part of the annual Program
evaluation undertaken by independent consultants. These evaluations would include a
beneficiary assessment and a review of Program achievements. The issues to be
addressed would include, among other things: the procedures governing access to land;
the occurrence of involuntary displacement or resettlement; the degree of community
acceptance; the existence of discrimination on the basis of gender or previous military
affiliation; the level of personal security of ex-combatants; the level of criminal activities
undertaken by ex-combatants; and the impact on an ex-combatant's family members.
The evaluations would help to identify social and environmental impacts, determine the
appropriateness of procedures and processes, and make recommendations for
improvements where necessary.
3.6   The monitoring and evaluation system is designed in such a way that the regular
review of social and environmental aspects is part and parcel of Program implementation,
and that mitigation measures would be initiated quickly as needed.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24288
GABO                                EY
)RWAN     N
\  CONGO0        BURUNDI
CA.OINDO                         AZAI
ANGC)LA
loerde                           MALAWI
Atbonbc    ANGOLA                  1
Oc.0n                 ZAM8IA                          0   SELEcrED TOWNS     +    AIRPORTS
 PROVI.'4CE CAPITALS     PORTS
NAMIBIA                     s                   NATICNAL CAPITAL  -     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
MAIN ROADS       -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
< 12    osCONGO                 16        r        ---  RAILROADS
CANAI  |                                             MILES  0         100         200         300
CABINLA B   +                       I                                             I           II
KILOMETERS  0  100    200     300     400     500
> 5    ~M'BANZA                       __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
CONGO,3             O u,tnb to 
ZAIRE   +                                                20                               24
(UIGE
ThIs mop hos been prepored by
-C- n  Ib  The World Bok's stoff eds-rely
for the  -on -o,-c  of readers0 
B                                                                 an~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d Is  exlui.-ly  for  the
.-Intro ... of Th. World Book
LUCAP  * 1   OrGsop The deo--int,o-o ued
k X   ) t   T   LUNIDA  LUCAPod the boundaries shown
CUANZA                   ~~~~~~~~~~NOATE              on thism dot opi,o the
LUAND             NORTE         MnALANoen a helEo
LUANDUNZA                       MALANJE             NOTE                                   I
LUANDA               *   > -   Pot A WLANJBO                                    soch Ioondories
SARIMO
ATLANTIC    \BENG                                                      + >~0 
$\  A  CUANZA 1  S       t- k-        Jt X        AiMuondo
Fb- b  C-b.   SULN                                    SUL                To LUhumboshi
- 12   d E   N       G       U      E      7           MOXICO 7  LUEN
12o                 r           IIIAB  B\IE      +<E        \ 
NAObCEALNBANGO                 Cn               )
HUAMBO. \  ~~  /S   \      /    CUANDO
-16 NAMIBE 75 CUNENE ) 0 | ~~CUBANGO o
C.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C,
BE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
\o 7Widhoek  NAMIBIA        \s     _   _   4                         I
1 2                             CUNENECUaANGO616                20                             2
APRIL 1993









IMAGING
Report No.: T       7580  ANG
Type:     TAN



