Page  1
GRANT NUMBER TF053633 ANG 
 
Multi-Country Demobilization and  
Reintegration Program  
GRANT AGREEMENT
 
(Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project) 
 
among 
 
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(
acting as administrator of the Multi-Country Demobilization and  
Reintegration Program for the Great Lakes Region)
 
and 
 
INSTITUTE FOR THE SOCIO-PROFESSIONAL 
REINTEGRATION OF EX-COMBATANTS (IRSEM)
 
Dated                                                          , 2004 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER 053633-ANG 
MDRP GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated ______________________________, 2004, between 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), acting as 
administrator of the Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program for the 
greater Great Lakes Region (MDRP) in respect of grant funds provided by certain 
members of the Association as participants of the MDRP, and INSTITUTE FOR THE 
SOCIO-PROFESSIONAL REINTEGRATION OF EX-COMBATANTS (IRSEM) (the 
Recipient) for the benefit of the Republic of Angola (the Beneficiary);  
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project, through a Grant (the MDRP Grant); 
(B) 
by a Development Grant Agreement between the Beneficiary and the 
Association on one hand, and the Project Agreement between the Association and the 
Recipient on the other, both dated September 5, 2003, for the Emergency  Demobilization 
and Reintegration Project, the Association granted to the Beneficiary an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
24,000,000) to assist in financing of such Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Development Grant Agreement and the Project Agreement;  and 
 
(C) 
The Beneficiary hereby confirms its support for, and its commitment to, the 
objectives of the Project to be financed by the MDRP Grant, and to this end, hereby 
undertakes to take all action necessary or appropriate to enable the Recipient to carry out its 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the MDRP Grant to the Recipient on the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a) 
“Contractor” means an implementing agency eligible to receive a Micro-
Grant (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined); 
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Micro-Grant” means a grant to be made out of the proceeds of the 
MDRP Grant to a Contractor to finance activities under Parts A, B, and C of the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph II of Schedule 4 of this Agreement and 
with the Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined); 
(d) 
“Micro-Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and a Contractor for the provision of a Micro-Grant in accordance 
with the provision of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and comprising policies, procedures, ad 
guidelines which shall be followed by the Recipient in implementation of the Project;  
and 
(f) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equivalent to 
forty-eight million four hundred thousand United States Dollars (US$ 48,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the MDRP Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for carrying out the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the MDRP Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. The Recipient’s Director General , and any person whom he or she 
shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.  
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Recipient and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the Project 
(c) 
 in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the MDRP Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after  the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively). 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the Effective Date 
falls, to and including the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account is made, have the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each semi annual 
period, or other period agreed to by the Association,  audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association,  by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such semi annual 
period or such other  period agreed to by the Association, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such period, or such other 
period agreed to by the Association, as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements by said auditors,  in  scope and  detail  
satisfactory to the Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit  of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditures, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and  
(iv) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditures are 
included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in  Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the MDRP Grant and explains variances between the 
actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 5.01. This MDRP Grant Agreement will become effective as of the date 
of the countersignature. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning is designated as representative of the 
Beneficiary and the Director General of IRSEM is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 
6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Beneficiary: 
Ministry of Planning 
 
Largo do Palácio 
 
Cx. Postal 885 
 
Luanda 
 
Angola 
 
Facsimile: 
 
244
233 9586 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Instituto de Reintegração Socio-Professional dos Ex-Militares 
Avda. Comandante Valodia, no. 206, 10th Andar 
Luanda, Angola 
 
Facsimile: 
 (244-2) 
441997 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Luanda, Republic of Angola, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA 
 
By 
   Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
INSTITUTE FOR THE SOCIO-PROFESSIONAL 
REINTEGRATION OF EX-COMBATANTS 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the MDRP Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in US Dollars) 
%
of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
 
(1) Works 
 
400,000 
 
85% 
(2) Goods, Equipment, and  
Vehicles  
5,000,000 
 
100% of foreign expenditures 
and 85% of local expenditures 
 
(3) Consultant Services and 
Audits 
 
2,500,000 85% 
(4) Training and Workshops 
 
500,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) Micro-Grants  under Parts A, 
B
and C 
 
35,000,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(6) Operating Costs 
 
3,000,000 85% 
(7) Unallocated 
2,000,000 
 
 
TOTAL 
____________
48,400,000 
=========== 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
 
(c) 
term “Operating Costs” means incremental expenses incurred on account of 
Project implementation, management and monitoring; including office supplies; vehicle and 
equipment operation and maintenance; communication and insurance costs; salaries of 
locally contracted employees and reasonable bank charges related to the operation of the 
Special Account, but excluding salaries of officials of the Beneficiary’s civil service 
including the Recipient’s regular staff. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under category (4)  unless the Micro-
Grants have been made in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for (a) civil works 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each;  (b) goods estimated to cost less than 
US$200,000 equivalent each, (c) services of consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 
equivalent each; (d) services of individual consultants and audits costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent each; and (e) Micro-Grants,  training,  workshops and operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  
5. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of the 
MDRP Grant was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in its efforts to create 
long-term sustainable social development and to support macro-economic stability in its  
territory through the provision of support to the social and economic reintegration of the 
approximately 138,000 ex-combatants from the former UNITA (
União Nacional para a 
Independência Total de Angola, 
the national union for the total independence of Angola, 
an organization now dissolved) military forces and the Angola Armed Forces; the 
reintegration assistance to special target groups including women, children associated 
with ex-combatants, and disabled; and the institutional development and program 
implementation support (the Project).  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A:
Economic Reintegration
1. Agriculture
:
economic reintegration of ex-combatants through the provision 
of  small equipment, seeds, tools and technical advisory services in accordance with 
eligibility criteria described in the Project Implementation Manual. 
2. Training
:
apprenticeship, on-the-job and formal training of ex-combatants in 
accordance with the selection criteria described in the Project Implementation Manual 
through the provision of equipment and technical advisory services. 
3. 
Promotion of Income Generating Activities and Employment Opportunities
:
business management training, job placement services, provision of tool kits consistent 
with the skills training, employment creation through community and public works 
activities, assistance to ex-combatants through the provision of equipment, technical 
advisory services, and training, in accordance with the eligibility criteria described in the 
Project Implementation Manual.  
Part B:
Social Reintegration
Development and carrying out of community level programs in: (1) sensitization 
and confidence building; (2)  civil right awareness; (3) information and counseling on 
health, sanitation and sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS; (4) media 
campaigns through radio, posters, pamphlets and print media; (5) conflict analysis and 
reconciliation activities; and (6) cultural and sporting community activities, including 
work projects, selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria described in the Project 
Page  14
-
13
-
Implementation Manual, through the provision of technical advisory services and  
training.   
Part C:
Special Target Groups
1. 
Provision of support for the social and economic reintegration program for 
female ex-combatants by: (a) ensuring that they have benefits equal to those of male ex-
combatants; (b) providing counseling services; and (c) monitoring the program, all 
through the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
2. 
Support the social and economic reintegration program for disabled and 
chronically ill ex-combatants through the: (a) provision of physical rehabilitation 
assistance; and (b) provision of counseling, vocational training and support for micro-
enterprise activities, all through the provision of works, technical advisory services and 
training. 
3. 
Support the social and economic reintegration of  children associated with ex-
combatants by providing family tracing and unification, trauma counseling, psycho-social 
care, facilitation of access to education, recreation,  vocational, and training in 
communities of settlement through the provision of technical advisory services and 
Goods. 
Part D:
Institutional Development and Program Implementation Support 
Strengthening the capacity of the Recipient and its respective provincial offices 
to carry out and support activities under the Project through the provision of training and 
technical advisory services, the acquisition of vehicles and office equipment, and the 
carrying out of audits. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2007. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I.
General 
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Notification and Advertising
Page  16
-
15
-
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
C. 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, and which 
the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, 
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding. 
3. Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract  may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
4. Force 
Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing 
$50,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, 
be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods which are not available through competition or urgently needed may be 
procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United Nations 
(IAPSO), the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF), the 
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and United Nations 
Development Program (UNDP), in accordance with the provisions of 3.1 and 3.9 of the 
Procurement Guidelines.  
5. Community 
Participation
Goods and works and services (other than Consultant Services) estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable 
to the Association. 
6. 
Procurement of Small Works
Page  17
-
16
-
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Section III. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B 
of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B: Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services of consulting 
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and services of 
individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 4. 
Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to prior approval 
of the Association. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Section IV.   
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each civil 
works estimated to cost  the equivalent of US$50,000 or more; (b) each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding  or National Competitive Bidding; (c) each contract 
for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more; and (d) each contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual 
consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more. All other contracts shall 
be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
I. General
1. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to IDA a Project Implementation Manual 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, setting out details of : (a) Project 
implementation; (b) Project financial management plan; (c) Project procurement plan; (d) 
Micro-Grants Guidelines including: (i) eligibility criteria, (ii) beneficiaries, (iii) terms and 
conditions for providing Micro-Grants, (iv) sample Micro-Grant Agreement, and (v) such 
other administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements as shall be 
required for the provision of Micro-Grants; and (d) such other administrative, financial, 
technical and organizational arrangements as shall be required for implementation of the 
Project. 
II. 
Eligibility Criteria for Micro-Grants
2. 
The Recipient shall provide Micro-Grants to finance activities under Parts A, B, 
and C of the Project. Micro-Grants shall be provided in accordance with guidelines, 
procedures and eligibility criteria acceptable to the Association and set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual, such provisions shall include, but not be limited to, the 
following: 
(a) 
Micro-Grants shall be provided for any of the activities referred to in 
Parts A, B, and C of the Project and shall not be provided for any of the activities 
mentioned in a negative list in the Project Implementation Manual; 
 
(b) 
activities to be financed by Micro-Grants shall be initiated and 
implemented by a contractor (the Contractor) which could be any entity eligible 
to receive a Micro-Grant in accordance with the provisions set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual; and  
 
(c) 
activities to be financed by Micro-Grants shall be in compliance with: (i) 
applicable laws and regulations of the Beneficiary;  and (ii) criteria and standards 
set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. 
3. 
To provide Micro-Grants, the Recipient shall enter into a Micro-Grant 
Agreement with the Contractor under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association 
,
which shall include the following: 
(a) 
a description of the approved activities, with its budget and its 
performance indicators; 
Page  20
-
19
-
(b) 
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis; 
(c) 
the Contractor’s obligation to: (i) carry out the activities with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, technical and financial standards 
taking into account social and environmental implications and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual; (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with simple and sound accounting practices defined in the Project Implementation 
Manual, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the activity; and (iii) 
maintain adequate reporting in accordance with the standards specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual; 
(d) 
the requirements that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Micro-Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in the Project Implementation Manual; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the activities under Parts A, B, and D; 
(e) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the Beneficiary, 
and the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, services and 
construction financed by the Micro-Grant, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
(f) 
the right of Recipient to obtain all information as the Recipient, the 
Beneficiary, or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operations and financial conditions of the activities financed by the Micro-Grant; and  
(g) 
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the Contractor’s right  to 
use the proceeds of the Micro-Grant upon failure by the Contractor to perform any of its 
obligations under Micro-Grant Agreement.  
III. Monitoring
4. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 7 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2004 and thereafter no later than 
December 31, of each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
Page  21
-
20
-
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, on or about January 30
th
 of each year, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
IV. Mid-Term 
Review
5. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a)  
no later than December 31, 2005, carry out jointly with the Association, a 
midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project; and 
(b) 
carry out, no later than one month after the completion of the Mid-term 
Review, the Recommendations of the Mid-term Review as agreed with the Association. 
6. 
The Mid-term Review shall assess the following: (i) the overall progress made in the 
implementation of the Project; and (ii) the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the MDRP Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$4,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
Page  23
-
22
-
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the MDRP Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the MDRP Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  24
-
23
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Modifications to the General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “the MDRP Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “the MDRP grant”; except that 
where used in Sections 6.02(a)(ii) and 6.02(c)(i), as modified below, the 
term “credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read “MDRP 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the MDRP Grant 
in the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment 
charge”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
Page  26
-
25
-
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the MDRP Grant
 
The amount of the MDRP Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be 
the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency 
or currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in Section 
6.02(a)(ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement 
or any development credit agreement or development financing 
agreement or any MDRP TF Grant Agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02(c)(i) is 
modified to read:  “any development grant agreement, development 
credit agreement or development financing agreement or any MDRP TF 
Grant Agreement”. 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Borrower under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 7
Performance Indicators
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Association:
 
Component 
Monitoring Indicators 
Reintegration 
·
At least 20,000 demobilized ex-combatants receive targeted 
reintegration assistance in each full year of program 
operation. 
·
Average costs for reintegration assistance do not exceed 
US$600 equivalent per person 
·
At least 50% of those demobilized are involved in some form 
of economic activity within 6 months of having received 
reintegration assistance. 
Special target 
groups 
·
Each demobilized disabled ex-combatant has started to 
receive medical rehabilitation assistance within 18 months of 
Project Effectiveness. 
·
Each child associated with combatants to have received target 
reintegration assistance as follows: 15% of estimated total 
number in 2004, 45% of estimated total in 2005, and 40% of 
estimated total in 2006 
Institutional 
Development 
and Program 
Implementation 
Support  
 
·
The six key provincial IRSEM offices are fully operational 
within three months of Project effectiveness, in accordance 
with criteria set forth in the Program Implementation Manual. 
·
First round of prime contractor contracts finalized within four 
months of Project effectiveness. 
·
An independent evaluation is carried out annually, including 
use of beneficiaries opinion polls, in accordance with Terms 
of Reference agreed with the Association. 
Page  28
-
27
-
