Report No. PID11534
Project Name             ANGOLA-Emergency Demobilization and
Reintegration Project
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Other social services (100%)
Project ID               P078288
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF ANGOLA
Implementing Agency
Institute for the Socio-Professional
Reintegration of Ex-Combatants (IRSEM)
Address: Avenida Comandante Valodia 206,
10 Andar, Edificio da AP, Luanda
Contact Person: General Ant6nio Andrade,
Director General
Tel: 244-2-448365
Fax: 244-2-441997
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        December 9, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      October 17, 2002
Bank Approval Date       February 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
A. Circumstances of the Conflict
Angola has been at war since the 1960s, when competing national resistance
movements, including the Movimento Popular de Liberta6ao de Angola (MPLA),
and the Uniao Nacional para a Independencia Total de Angola (UNITA) began
to challenge Portuguese colonial authority. Following a short-lived
attempt to establish a joint transitional government in January 1975,
fighting among the independence movements resumed in advance of
independence in November 1975. On independence day, November 11, 1975,
control of Angola was divided. The MPLA held Luanda and other urban areas
while UNITA held large parts of the rural south and east. In the
following decade of warfare, the MPLA gradually asserted control over most
of the country.
The first attempt to secure peace culminated in the signing of the Bicesse
Accords in May 1991, which called for multiparty legislative and
presidential elections. However, when the leader of UNITA, Jonas Savimbi,
lost the first round of the 1992 presidential elections, he rejected the
outcome and took the country back to war. In response to UNITA's return
to fighting, the United Nations (UN) in 1993 imposed sanctions against its
arms and fuel trade.
A second peace process resulted in the signing of the Lusaka Accords in
November 1994. Under the Agreement, UNITA agreed to demobilize and join a
Government of Unity and National Reconciliation. This government was
formed in April 1997, and demobilization was initiated under the
supervision of a UN peacekeeping operation, UNAVEM II, which reached 7,500
personnel at its height. However, UNITA failed to demobilize completely
and to implement other key provisions of the Agreement. As low-level
fighting persisted, UNITA was suspended from parliament in August 1998,



and in December of the same year the Lusaka Accords collapsed when the
Government of Angola (GoA) attacked UNITA's headquarters. By mid-2000,
UNITA had been pushed back into non-strategic rural areas, but remained a
destabilizing guerrilla force.
The third and most recent attempt to achieve peace began following a
successful GoA offensive that culminated in the death of Jonas Savimbi on
February 22, 2002. The GoA and UNITA signed the Luena Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) on April 4, 2002. UNITA forces were subsequently
encamped in 36 quartering areas across the country. On August 2, 2002,
UNITA military forces were formally dissolved. While 5,017 UNITA
combatants have been integrated into the Angolan Armed Forces (FAA) for
the longer term, the remaining 85,000 are to be demobilized and returned
to civilian life. These developments represent the best opportunity since
independence to resolve the Angolan crisis by demobilizing the former
UNITA forces and reintegrating them into civilian life in Angola through
an orderly process.
B. Economic and Social Impact of the Conflict
The long civil war has had a devastating impact on the population of
Angola. Some 750,000 Angolans have died from conflict-related causes,
including conflict-induced famine or disease; some 4.5 million are
internally displaced; and another 450,000 are refugees. Key social
indicators are very poor - Angola ranks only 146th out of 162 countries on
UNDP's Human Development Index for 2001. Life expectancy is low; school
enrolment rates are low; and infant and child mortality rates are
extremely high. The Millenium Development Goals are distant. Food
security has been precarious as able-bodied males have been conscripted
into the armed forces, crops raided or destroyed, and input delivery
systems neglected. Conflict, combined with corruption, macroeconomic
mismanagement, and a severe shortage of technical and managerial capacity,
has also resulted in the collapse of economic activity in all sectors
except subsistence agriculture and the enclave oil and diamond sectors.
Persistent instability in Angola has also helped to fuel conflicts in
adjacent countries, especially the Congos.
As a result of the continuing insecurity, defense spending fluctuated
between about 15 percent and 40 percent of total public spending from 1999
to 2001. Defense expenditures remain a significant burden on the national
budget and may hamper the Government's ability to implement its poverty
reduction strategy.
C. Government and International Response and Strategy
Angola's civil conflict was escalated through Cold War sponsorship. The
MPLA, which was allied with the Soviet bloc, invited Cuban troops into
Luanda in October 1975, one month before independence. UNITA received
military support from South Africa and financial aid from the United
States. Cold War alliances also dragged Angola into wider regional
conflicts, including in particular in the two neighboring Congos. The
withdrawal of foreign sponsorship in the 1990s, following the collapse of
the Soviet Union and the initiation of a transition in South Africa,
created space for the Bicesse and Lusaka peace processes.
Bicesse and Lusaka demobilizations (old caseload): Two earlier attempts
to demobilize--the first following the Bicesse Accords and the second
following the Lusaka Accords--ended in failure. Some 160,000 combatants
were identified for demobilization and reintegration under these two
accords and in some cases received benefits under previous programs. The
demobilization of this old caseload was led by UN peacekeeping operations,
-2 -



with reintegration efforts co-financed by the GoA and various bilateral
donors; the GoA did not request IDA financial assistance under these
earlier processes.
Post-Luena demobilization (new caseload): The April 4 MoU, signed by
UNITA and the MPLA, indicates that all UNITA ex-combatants will be
demobilized in 2002, except for 5,017 who will be integrated into the FAA
and the police. The MoU also specifies that about 33,000 FAA will be
demobilized, albeit by an unspecified (later) date. As of June 30, 2002,
approximately 84,000 ex-combatants from UNITA had reported to 36
quartering areas across Angola in preparation for demobilization. By
August 2, 5,017 combatants were integrated in the FAA for the longer-term,
while all other UNITA combatants were incorporated into the FAA in
anticipation of their demobilization.
For this new demobilization caseload, the GoA has asked the World Bank to
lead efforts to help it design the ADRP and to provide financial
assistance, within the framework of the Multi-country Demobilization and
Reintegration Program (MDRP). The Government's efforts are being
supported by a multi-donor team comprising representatives of several MDRP
partners, including: DfID, GTZ, USAID, ILO, UNOA, UNDP and UNICEF.
2. Objectives
The overall goal of the new national Angola Demobilization and
Reintegration Program is to help foster reconciliation in Angola and
consolidate peace in the Great Lakes region. The three principle
objectives of the program include: (i) the demobilization and
reintegration into civilian life of some 85,000 UNITA and 33,000 FAA
ex-combatants; (ii) the provision of reintegration assistance to
new-caseload ex-combatants to be demobilized; and (iii) the reallocation
of GoA expenditures from military to social and economic purposes.
The ADRP is expected to have a significant impact on reducing poverty in
Angola by: (i) helping ex-combatants to re-establish civilian livelihoods,
thereby contributing to more secure conditions in the rural areas and
encouraging internally displaced persons (IDPs) to resume productive lives
in the rural economy; (ii) freeing up additional national resources for
investment in social and economic sectors; (iii) investing in the human
capital of ex-combatants; and (iv) enhancing the implementation capacity
of community-based development organizations.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Need for Emergency Assistance. The GoA's request for technical and
financial assistance for the ADRP has come at a critical time in the
consolidation of the Angolan peace process. The application of the Bank's
emergency procedures under OP 8.50 is justified on the basis of the
following criteria: (i) the program's impact on economic priorities and
investment programs; (ii) its critical contribution to the stabilization
of the society and economy, both in Angola and in the greater Great Lakes
region, and (iii) the urgency to demobilize and provide reintegration
assistance to the UNITA ex-combatants.
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and Transitional Support
Strategy (TSS): As cornerstones of its poverty reduction strategy, the
Government of Angola emphasizes improving economic policy formulation,
strengthening public sector capacity and institutions, expanding the human
capital base, rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure, and
promoting pro-poor growth. The new TSS reflects the GoA's determination
to overcome the legacies of the war, in particular by demilitarizing the
- 3 -



country and facilitating the return of the country's 4.5 million IDPs; to
correct macroeconomic imbalances and improve GoA resource management; to
expand service delivery to achieve poverty-reducing outcomes on the
ground; and to strengthen coalitions for meaningful social and economic
reform. The proposed Credit is an integral part of the interim PRSP and
the TSS.
4. Description
The ADRP would consist of four components: (i) demobilization; (ii)
reintegration; (iii) special groups; and (iv) program implementation. The
FAA has been tasked with the implementation of demobilization activities.
A. Demobilization
The ADRP will demobilize about 85,000 UNITA ex-combatants that have been
quartered and reduce the number of FAA military personnel by approximately
33,000 over a 24-month period. Demobilization of ex-combatants of the
UNITA military forces (FMU) is taking place from the quartering areas
(QAs). Entitlements of the demobilized would depend on the type of
discharge (a disponibilidade, a reserva, a reforma). Demobilization
procedures will include (i) identification and verification of those to be
demobilized, (ii) distribution of demobilization letters, (iii) collection
of socio-economic data, (iv) payment of a FAA salary cash payment, and (v)
transport to the community of choice. As disarmament has been completed
by the FAA prior to the initiation of the Program, this activity is not
included in the Program description.
The GoA initiated demobilization from Quartering Areas on October 20,
2002. At this time, demobilization and transport activities are still
ongoing. The GoA has indicated that it intends to conclude the
demobilization phase by December 31, 2002.
The ADRP will provide reinsertion assistance in the form of a combination
of monetized and in-kind transitional safety net assistance (TSN), to
cover the basic needs of an ex-combatant and his dependents over a period
of 6 months. In addition to the payment of five months of salarty,
ex-combatants are expected to receive a cash payment of US$100 equivalent
as well as a basic needs kit within three months of their return.
B. Reintegration
Building on experiences with such programs in Angola and elsewhere as
well as with community-based development projects in the country, the ADRP
would provide economic and social reintegration assistance to help
ex-combatants establish sustainable livelihoods. Several guiding
principles would apply for reintegration assistance: (i) it would seek to
minimize market distortions and maximize beneficiary choice; (ii) it would
seek to involve communities of settlement and foster reconciliation
wherever feasible; and (iii) to the extent possible, assistance would be
provided in such a way that it is beneficial to the wider community.
Implementing partners would be contracted to provide reintegration
services to ex-combatants in the following areas: (i) small scale
agriculture micro-projects; (ii) skills development and training
opportunities; and (iii) support for short-term employment opportunities
linked to on-going community works activities, and (iv) social assistance
for conflict resolution, counseling and reconciliation.
The social and economic reintegration of ex-combatants will take place in
the context of the return of some four million displaced civilians. The
GoA is preparing an emergency rehabilitation program to support such
processes and expects to support reintegration efforts for ex-combatants
- 4 -



through this broader program. The ADRP will include mechanisms to help
ex-combatants access broader recovery efforts. In particular, the
implementing agency would recruit counselors into its provincial offices
to provide ongoing information, counseling and referral (ICR) services to
ex-combatants, including outreach activities intended to minimizing social
reintegration. HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures will be
included as a cross-cutting issue.
C. Special Target Groups
The ADRP will provide specialized assistance to disabled and underage
ex-combatants. Disabled ex-combatants would receive access to medical
rehabilitation services. Underage ex-combatants would receive access,
inter alia, to family tracing and unification services, trauma counseling
and psycho-social care. Detailed criteria and procedures will be
elaborated in the ADRP implementation manual.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $60.00
IBRD
IDA $30.00
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED) $55.00
Total Project Cost $145.00
6. Implementation
A. Institutional Structures
23.     The GoA will assume overall responsibility for the implementation
of the ADRP. The National Commission for the Social and Professional
Reintegration of the Demobilized and Displaced (CNRDD) will be tasked with
overall policy guidance and program oversight. The CNRDD succeeded the
Inter-sectoral Commission for Implementation of the Peace Process in June
2002, with a mandate to coordinate GoA efforts in reintegrating
ex-combatants. It is chaired by the Minister of the Interior; other
members include the Minister of Assistance and Social Reinsertion (who
chairs the CNRDD's Executive Committee); the Ministers of Planning;
Finance; Health; Public Administration, Employment and Social Security;
Education and Culture; and Agriculture and Rural Development; the
Secretary of the Council of Ministers; the Head of the Military House; and
the Head of the Estate Major General of the FAA. The CNRDD is expected to
hold regular meetings to take policy-related decisions, but would not be
involved in the implementation of the program.
24.      As all UNITA ex-combatants have been formally integrated into the
FAA before demobilization, the FAA is responsible for the implementation
of demobilization activities. The Ministry of Assistance and Social
Reinsertion (MINARS) will be tasked with distributing reinsertion
assistance (other than salaries) to ex-combatants in their areas of return.
25.     The Institute for the Socio-Professional Reintegration of
Ex-Combatants (IRSEM), under the tutelage of the Ministry of Planning
(MINPLAN) and MINARS, will be charged with operationalizing the CNRDD's
reintegration policy instructions and preparing a technical proposal for
the ADRP as well as detailed annual implementation plans. IRSEM was
established in 1995 and gained experience in the implementation of
reintegration activities following the Lusaka accords. IRSEM would be
responsible for the supervision of reintegration activities under the
- 5-



ADRP, including (i) contracting implementing partners, (ii) the management
of an information, counseling, and referral (ICR) system, (iii) the
coordination of reintegration assistance, (iv) and monitoring and
evaluation. IRSEM would also contract qualified implementing partners to
provide reintegration services to ex-combatants in the following areas:
(i) small scale agriculture micro-projects; (ii) skills development and
training opportunities; and (iii) support for short-term employment
opportunities linked to on-going community works activities, and (iv)
social assistance for conflict resolution, counseling and reconciliation.
B. Project Timing
26.     The reintegration phase of the ADRP, which will be supported by
IDA and the regional Multi-Donor Trust Fund of the MDRP, will be
implemented over a period of three years, starting in January 2003. The
GoA is fully financing the demobilization and reinsertion activities,
which are already under way. The Government anticipates that all
reintegration activities for ex-combatants would be implemented within a
three-year time frame.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
A strong monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, combined with close donor
supervision, would seek to ensure that the ADRP reaches targeted
beneficiaries in a timely and efficient fashion. The M&E system would be
quantitative and qualitative in nature, providing IRSEM and its provincial
offices with a comprehensive profile of ex-combatants, program benefits
and outcomes. A computerized Management and Information System (MIS)
would be used to track assistance provided to the ex-combatants and
monitor performance throughout the life of the program.
Performance Indicators. IRSEM and its provincial offices would be
responsible for measuring program performance against an agreed set of
demobilization and reintegration performance indicators.
7. Sustainability
The ADRP is designed to aid the sustainable social and economic
reintegration of ex-combatants. In this regard, it would make a positive
contribution to the socio-economic status of ex-combatants, their families
and their communities of settlement.
Major Benefits and Risks
Benefits
The program should enable the GoA to consolidate its social and economic
recovery efforts. The program is designed to facilitate and expedite the
process of returning about 118,000 ex-combatants to productive social and
economic life. The return of a relatively large percentage of the labor
force to the civilian economy is expected to inject significant human
resource capacity into the labor market. Their dispersion, and the
provision of assistance throughout the country, could contribute to a
regeneration of rural productive and financial markets.
Risks and Mitigation Measures
The key risk is that the ADRP is not deemed to be credible by
beneficiaries, and that they resort to violent protest or seek to create
insecurity. As a consequence of the GoA's recent military victory over
UNITA, the change in UNITA leadership, and the commitment of both the GoA
and UNITA to the peace process, it is unlikely that large scale war will
resume. However residual banditry perpetrated by disgruntled
ex-combatants is possible. To mitigate this risk, the ADRP preparation
- 6-



team is consulting closely with all stakeholders to ensure that their
concerns are known and addressed in the program.
Recent GoA activity, including the partial implementation of
demobilization activities and the creation of a new National Commission
for the Social and Professional Reintegration of the Demobilized and
Displaced in June without consultations, indicate a risk of uncoordinated
GoA activity that could undermine the ADRP. This risk is being mitigated
through close collaboration between the GoA and the MDRP partners in the
preparation and supervision of the ADRP.
There is also a risk of resource mismanagement, whether this involves the
leakage of ADRP resources to unintended purposes through corruption, or
the failure to translate demobilization savings into increased social and
economic spending. To mitigate this risk, appropriate safeguards with
respect to financial management, procurement and disbursement will be
developed to avoid any such misuse of program resources. In addition, GoA
expenditures will be carefully monitored by IDA and other MDRP partners
active in Angola.
There is a risk that the Multi-Donor Trust Fund associated with the MDRP
will provide insufficient resources to cover the funding gap fully. To
mitigate this risk, donor contributions to the MDTF will be sought before
Board presentation. If sufficient partner funds were nonetheless not
forthcoming, ADRP parameters would be adjusted to the available resources.
Finally, there is an external risk that events in the greater Great Lakes
region will drag Angola back into conflict. Angola is currently
withdrawing its forces from the Congos. However in the event of a
collapse of the peace process and resumption of hostilities within Angola
or in the sub-region, IDA would consider exercising its remedies under the
legal agreement. Even if large-scale violent conflict did not resume,
delays in the implementation of the peace process might affect the
implementation of the program.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Based on lessons learned in IDA operations elsewhere in Africa and the
findings of evaluations completed by the Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department (OED), relevant best practices were identified and integrated
into program design as noted below.
Demobilization. This phase is short but logistically complex. The
successful implementation of demobilization activities facilitates the
subsequent provision of targeted reinsertion and reintegration
assistance. Key demobilization activities include the distribution of
non-transferable ID documents, the collection of socio-economic data and
the establishment of a database on the beneficiary population; and the
dissemination of information about program benefits and civilian life.
Reinsertion. Upon demobilization, ex-combatants lose their source of
(formal or informal) income. Experience suggests that they are typically
in critical financial situation until they can generate income sufficient
to sustain a reasonable livelihood. During this period (the "reinsertion"
phase), ex-combatants require a transitional safety net to cover their
families' basic material needs. The objective of this transitional
assistance is thus to enable ex-combatants to return to their community
and to sustain themselves and their families for a limited period
immediately following demobilization.
Economic and social reintegration. Ex-combatants are often an
economically and socially vulnerable group as they lack marketable skills,
material assets and social networks. In addition, they are often a
- 7 -



high-risk group due to their familiarity with weapons and violence. Where
this is the case, targeted support is advisable to help them establish
sustainable livelihoods. To be relevant and cost-effective, such
assistance should be tailored to their socio-economic profile and adjusted
to the economic environment. Female, child and disabled ex-combatants
often require customized economic, social and medical support to establish
sustainable livelihoods. Ultimately, ex-combatants are reintegrated into
a broader economic context. The creation of viable long-term employment
opportunities for ex-combatants is closely linked to private sector
investment and associated employment generation. It should be noted that
ex-combatants also provide a human resource contribution to the civilian
economy.
Institutional issues. Program coordination and supervision by one
civilian agency, balanced by decentralized and community-based
implementation, constitutes a powerful institutional arrangement.
Wherever possible, existing implementation capacities should be leveraged.
The employment of ex-combatants as counselors and field staff can
facilitate reintegration.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Johannes Zutt
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: +1-202-4731262
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
January 10, 2003.
-8-



