                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank

                                                          Report No: ICR00001164

           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-H0270, TF-53633, and TF-55364)

                                         ON AN

                                      IDA GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24 MILLION
                           (US$ 33 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         AND A

                                     MDRP GRANT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 48.4 MILLION

                                          AND

                         A EUROPEAN COMMISSION GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 13.4 MILLION
                          (US$ 16.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA

                                        FOR AN

       EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT



                                      June 25, 2009


Sustainable Development Department
Fragile States, Conflict an Social Development Unit
Africa Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
             (Exchange Rate Effective 06/01/2009)

         Currency Unit = Angolan New Kwanza (AON)
                       1.00 AON = US$ 75.16
                      US$ 1.00 = 0.013 AON

                           FISCAL YEAR
                           July 1 ­ June 30

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADRP     Angola Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Program
D&R      Demobilization and Reintegration
DDR      Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
EC       European Commission
FAA      Armed Forces of Angola
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
FMPU     Financial Management and Procurement Unit
FMU      UNITA military forces
FNLA     National Front for the Liberation of Angola
GoA      Government of Angola
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IP       Implementing Partner
IRSEM    Institute for the Socio-Professional Reintegration of Ex-Combatants
LEAP     Learning for Equality, Access and Peace
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MDRP     Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program
MIS      Management Information System
MPLA     Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola
MTR      Mid Term Review
NGO      Non Governmental Organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PGRR     Government Reinforcement of Reintegration Program
PIM      Project Implementation Manual
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNITA    National Union for the Total Independence of Angola
URMA     Registration, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
UTGV     Unit to Support the Reintegration of the Vulnerable Groups
VG       Vulnerable Groups


                   Vice President: Obiagely Ezekwesili
         Acting Country Director: Peter Nicholas
                 Sector Manager: Ian Bannon
            Project Team Leader: Marcelo Fabre
               ICR Team Leader: Maria Correia

                                               ANGOLA
                Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 25
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis............................................................... 333
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 35
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 44
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 45
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 477
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 488
 Annex 10. Memo to RVP regarding clarification of PDO.................................49
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Emergency
Country:                Angola                Project Name:          Demobilization and
                                                                     Reintegration Project
                                                                     IDA-H0270,TF-
Project ID:             P078288               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     53633,TF-55364
ICR Date:               06/29/2009            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                   Borrower:
                                                                     ANGOLA
Original Total
                        USD 33.0M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 32.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 0.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
IRSEM
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/01/2002    Effectiveness:                           03/02/2004
Appraisal:             10/17/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/27/2003    Mid-term Review:     10/15/2005          10/22/2005
                                     Closing:             12/31/2006          12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry
                                                                      Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                           100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction              28                30
HIV/AIDS                                                          14                10
Improving labor markets                                           29                30
Social safety nets                                                29                30


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:        Peter Nicholas                      Darius Mans
Sector Manager:           Ian Bannon                         Darius Mans
Project Team Leader:      Marcelo Jorge Fabre                Johannes C.M. Zutt
ICR Team Leader:          Maria C. Correia
ICR Primary Author:      Chantal Rigaud



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The ADRP aimed to assist the Government of Angola in creating long term sustainable
social development and supporting macroeconomic stability in its territory through: (i)
the demobilization of approximately 138,000 ex-combatants; (ii) the provision of support
for the social and economic reintegration of ex-combatants; (iii) the provision of
assistance to special target groups; and (iv) institutional development and program
implementation support. (see para. 1.2 of ICR for explanation on PDO based on DGA
rather thatn Technical Annex)



                                               ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
                                               approval           Target     Completion or
                                              documents)          Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   -- nos. demobilized

Value                                     up to 105,000
quantitative or 0                         demobilized                      97390
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2003                  04/23/2008                       12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        % achievement: 92.5%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   -- nos. reintegrated
                                          50% of total
                                          demobilized
Value                                     involved in some                 58.6% employed
quantitative or 0                         form of economic                 (from independent
Qualitative)                              activity 3 months                survey)
                                          after receiving
                                          assistance
Date achieved 05/31/2003                  12/31/2006                       12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        58.6% of ex-combatants are self-employed; 36.8 % are unemployed, 4.6% are

achievement)    formally employed, and 91.2% have access to agriculture land.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                      Achieved at
                                               approval           Revised    Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :   having received economic reintegration support
                                          up to 133,000                    148;000
Value                                     (revised target to               opportunities
(quantitative   0                         include EC                       created of an
or Qualitative)                           financing and                    estimated revised of
                                          removing FAA)                    166,000
Date achieved 05/31/2003                  04/01/2008                       12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        60% of targeted beneficiaries were registered in the MIS




                                               iii

achievement)
Indicator 2 :  having received subsistence agricultural support
Value
(quantitative  0                          50,000                           44,816
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2003                  05/31/2003                       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       90% beneficiaries reached
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  contracting of reintegration opportunities through implementing partners (NGOs
               and UN agencies)
Value
(quantitative  0                          up to a maximum                  148,225
or Qualitative)                           of 133,000

Date achieved 05/31/2003                  04/01/2008                       12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  special vulnerable groups reintegrated
                                                                           10.238
Value                                     up to 12,500                     opportunities for
(quantitative  0                          disabled 16.000                  disabled, 22.466 for
or Qualitative)                           child soldiers, and
                                          16,000 women                     women and 26.245
                                                                           for children
Date achieved 05/31/2003                  12/31/2006                       12/31/2008
Comments       90.8% children registered in MIS compared to target, 63.7% of women and
(incl. %       42.9% of disabled.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP             Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     06/26/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/26/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     05/19/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.01
  4     11/30/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.01
  5     04/08/2005          Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                3.87
  6     08/24/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    7.39
  7     12/20/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    8.23
  8     05/22/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  11.28
  9     08/31/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  14.63
  10    03/21/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  19.05
  11    09/14/2007          Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              22.53
  12    04/28/2008          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   30.06
  13    12/19/2008    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  31.65



                                              iv

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

1.      Angola's struggle for independence from Portugal started in 1961 and ended in
1975 with the signature of the Alvor Accords. A transitional government composed of
representatives from the various factions (MPLA, FNLA and UNITA) quickly broke
down under the pressure of divergent views and a long civil war ensued. Foreign powers
sided with the various groups in the conflict. In 1988, a first attempt at peace (the New
York Accords) resulted in the withdrawal of foreign troops from Angola. In 1991, the
Bicesse Accords were signed between the MPLA and UNITA. Elections that brought to
power Jose Eduardo dos Santos of the MPLA did not end the civil war. A new peace
agreement ­ the Lusaka Accords ­ signed in 1994 also failed to bring calm back to the
country. Instead, heavy fighting erupted again in 1999. Finally, in 2002, the warring
parties signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) as an addendum to the Lusaka
Accords. This MOU included an amnesty law for crimes committed during the conflict,
the integration of 5,000 UNITA soldiers into the armed forces and the demobilization of
the rest of UNITA combatants.

2.      The economic impact of long years of civil war was profound, with widespread
poverty, corruption, mismanagement of natural resources and a destabilizing effect on the
region. Social indicators were very low, Angola ranking 13th from the bottom of
UNDP's Human Development Index in 2002. Overall seven percent of Angolans had
died from conflict-related causes since the country's independence, and the majority of
civilians have been affected by famine and diseases.

3.      The international community responded with humanitarian assistance as well as
support to the government's efforts to demobilize and reintegrate ex-combatants. In
particular, the Serviço Comunitario de Referência Project (1995-98), funded by various
donors through a UNDP-managed trust fund, supported demobilization and provided
reinsertion assistance for close to 35,000 ex-combatants. Despite achievements, the
program also experienced significant shortcomings, both internal (lack of technical and
management capacity) and external (decrease in financial assistance due to the increase in
government military spending). But important lessons were drawn along the way, notably
the need to offer similar levels of assistance to ex-combatants from various armed groups,
the value of a strong implementing agency, the centrality of good information, the
importance of counseling and referral services at the pre-demobilization stage, the
essential role of a management information system (MIS), and finally the need for
adequate financial resources and donor coordination.

4.      On the basis of these lessons, the World Bank responded positively to the
government's request to redesign and support its demobilization and reintegration (D&R)
efforts and to coordinate donor support through the Multi-country Demobilization and
Reintegration Program (MDRP), which had just been launched in the Great Lakes
Region. The regional platform provided by MDRP was meant to create synergies that
would lead to greater impact than individual programs. The operation that resulted, the
Angola Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Program (ADRP) was processed as


                                              1

an emergency operation in the World Bank, consistent with the country's interim poverty
reduction strategy. The emergency operation was justified by the need to quickly process
105,000 ex-combatants already in quarters across the country and awaiting D&R support.
Bank support came in the way on an IDA grant of US$ 33 million, approved in March
2003 and which became effective in March 2004. The IDA grant was complemented with
a grant from the MDRP Trust Fund of US$48.4 million (effective in September 2004). A
European Commission (EC) grant of 13.4 million for vulnerable groups would follow in
December 2005.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

5.     The ADRP aimed to assist the government of Angola in creating long term
sustainable social development and supporting macroeconomic stability in its territory
through: (i) the demobilization of approximately 138,000 ex-combatants; (ii) the
provision of support for the social and economic reintegration of ex-combatants; (iii) the
provision of assistance to special target groups; and (iv) institutional development and
program implementation support.

6.     This PDO and related results indicators are stated in the Development Grant
Agreement (DGA) signed with the Borrower in 2003. It is slightly different than the PDO
from the Technical Annex prepared during appraisal, which included as an objective the
reduction in military expenditures thanks to an increase in social sectors spending. This
difference was the subject of extensive discussions between the project team and relevant
Bank units. Finally, it was agreed that a reduction in military spending was clearly
outside of the ADRP's scope. OPCS subsequently advised the task team to seek approval
from the regional Vice-President to clarify the PDO. This approval was obtained in June
2007 (see additional Annex 10 for a copy of the memo).

7.     Based on the PDO, the following results framework was agreed:

Result 1: Support the Government of Angola (GoA) to implement its demobilization
commitments made under the Luena Memorandum of Understanding
Intermediate Result 1.1: Encampment, identification and discharge of up to 105,000
members of the UNITA ex-Military Forces (FMU).
Intermediate Result 1.2: Selection, screening and discharge of up to 33,000 members of
the Angolan Armed Forces (FAA).
Intermediate Result 1.3: Facilitated resettlement through the provision of subsidios de
contingência (contingency allowances) and resettlement kits to eligible ex-FMU and/or
ex-FAA personnel.

Result 2: Improved livelihoods of program beneficiaries (at a minimum) to the level of
the communities of resettlement
Intermediate Result 2.1: Enhanced economic self-sufficiency and food security.
Intermediate Result 2.2: Improved perception of wealth in beneficiary population through
increased capital assets.

Result 3: Increased social acceptance of program beneficiaries in destination
communities



                                            2

Intermediate Result 3.1: Progressively increased participation of program beneficiaries in
community affairs and traditional processes.
Intermediate Result 3.2: Increased reconciliation and reduced community tensions.
Intermediate Result 3.3: Increased availability of basic community services as an indirect
result of the assistance provided to ex-combatants.

Result 4: Significantly reduced levels of social and economic vulnerability of special
target groups
Intermediate Result 4.1: Enhanced capability of disabled ex-combatants and families of
the severely disabled to become economically self-sufficient.
Intermediate Result 4.2: Increased availability of specialized rehabilitation services for
disabled ex-combatants and other disabled in the community.
Intermediate Result 4.3: Enhanced access to legal protections for disabled ex-combatants.
Intermediate Result 4.4: Increased availability of mainstream and specialized support
services for youth and children associated with fighting forces.
Intermediate Result 4.5: Increased availability of gender sensitive programming for
female ex-combatants and other women associated with fighting forces.

Result 5: Increased capacity to coordinate, supervise and manage the delivery of
assistance to target groups by the Program Implementation Unit, IRSEM
Intermediate Result 5.1: Enhanced capacity to prepare and disseminate guidelines for
sub-project preparation.
Intermediate Result 5.2: Enhanced efficacy to review, award and process sub-projects.
Intermediate Result 5.3: Improved monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to assess the
effectiveness of sub-projects.

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

8.      The original Project Development Objective (PDO) and key indicators were not
revised.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

9.      The program beneficiaries were the 105,000 ex-FMU ex-combatants and the
33,000 FAA soldiers to be discharged. Among these were some female ex-combatants,
former child soldiers and a large contingent of disabled ex-combatants. The EC grant
allowed the project to extend support to other vulnerable populations in the resettlement
communities, notably family members of ex-combatants. Finally, the implementing
agency, IRSEM, was to benefit from support to enhance its capacity to manage the
project effectively.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

10.     The project had four components.




                                            3

(a) The demobilization component was aimed at facilitating the transition of 105,000 ex-
    FMU and 33,000 FAA ex-combatants to civilian life, consistent with the letter of
    demobilization policy issued by the Angola government in 2003. Demobilization
    processes of ex-FMU and FAA ex-combatants differed slightly, the former being
    gathered in quarters and the latter in discharge centers. The timeframes were also
    different: the ex-FMU demobilization having already begun at the start of the project
    while the FAA soldiers were to be discharged after the finalization of a strategic
    threat assessment. Transitional reinsertion assistance, both in-cash and in-kind, was to
    be provided shortly after demobilization to give ex-combatants the immediate means
    to support their basic needs and that of their families before reintegration.

(b) The reintegration component provided for both economic and social reintegration
    support to ex-combatants, with a view to ensuring the country's economic recovery
    and contributing to national reconciliation. Ex-combatants were to receive: (i)
    information and counseling to help them make the best choice of economic activity in
    their area of return; (ii) support to secure employment through formal and informal
    channels; and (iii) training to increase their education and skill levels and thus their
    employment prospects. The project proposed two types of reintegration opportunities:
    one primary ­ based on the socio-economic background, personal preference and
    place of return ­ and the other complementary ­ to further enhance the support to the
    primary opportunity. Economic reintegration focused on agricultural activities as well
    as the rehabilitation of essential infrastructure in communities where ex-combatants
    resettled. Their participation in rehabilitating schools, roads or medical centers would
    not only respond to a critical public need, but also promote reconciliation.

(c) Assistance to special target groups aimed to provide targeted support to female ex-
    combatants (who represented about 0.4% of the demobilized), former child soldiers
    and the disabled. Underage ex-combatants were to be put under the protection of
    specialized agencies in order to receive appropriate support at demobilization and to
    be reunified with their families. Finally, disabled ex-combatants represented a large
    sub-group among the targeted beneficiaries in need of ongoing medical care and
    specialized training.

(d) Institutional development and support to program implementation. Considering
    the scope of the project and the weaknesses of IRSEM, this component assisted
    IRSEM with the preparation of an implementation manual. An estimated 75% of the
    total value of the reintegration component ($57 million) would be implemented by
    primary and secondary contractors, the remainder staying under the direct control of
    IRSEM. The contracting arrangements for each level of implementation were clearly
    defined, along with monitoring and reporting requirements.

1.6     Revised Components

11.     Project components were not revised; however, additional financing obtained
from the EC in 2005 allowed to extend component three (support to vulnerable groups)
beyond the original beneficiaries in order to target the larger communities where ex-
combatants resettled.



                                               4

1.7     Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

12.     The closing dates of the three grants, initially different, were harmonized and
extended to December 31, 2008 to take into account the long delay in project
effectiveness as well as delays in implementing the support to vulnerable groups.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

13.     The difficult context in which the project was prepared and implemented is
noteworthy: risks were high, IRSEM suffered from a bad reputation at the outset which
translated into little confidence among government and implementing partners and the
need for significant capacity building. This said, the Government displayed storn project
ownership and despite all the challenges, the project was able to be innovative in
implementation. In particular, thanks to complementary funding from the European
Commission, the project was able to support activities for widows and communities ­
activities which went beyond the objectives of the project.

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

14.     The project benefited from lessons from previous reintegration programs (e.g.
Bicesse and Lusaka processes), and the substantial experience gained by the World Bank
from a number of D&R programs it supported in Africa and elsewhere. As a result the
following mitigation measures were adopted:

    (a) All ex-combatants would receive the same levels of assistance irrespective of
         their previous affiliation (FAA or FMU).
    (b) The capacity of the national implementing agency (IRSEM), which was created
         in 1995, was to be strengthened over the life of the ADRP.
    (c) The GoA was to prepare, finance and implement an Information, Counseling and
         referral service (the Programa Nacional de Informação, Sensibilização e
         Referência - PRONAISAR) in the areas were ex-combatants were quartered and
         in areas of return.
    (d) Counseling and referral services would promote the integration of ex-combatants
         into broader recovery efforts (e.g. demining, public works, community
         rehabilitation).
    (e) An international firm was recruited to oversee the Financial Management and
         Procurement Unit (FMPU), which would provide guidance to the Director
         General of IRSEM and be responsible for managing IDA and other project funds.
    (f) The program established a specialized unit for documentation and M&E.

The project was reviewed for quality at entry by the Bank's quality group.

15.     The program was designed with broad participation of key local stakeholders,
including local authorities, traditional leaders and NGOs. Ex-combatants were able to



                                                5

select freely the area of resettlement and their economic reintegration options according
to their profile and expectations.

2.2     Implementation
(Including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

16.     A Program Implementation Manual (PIM) was designed by the GoA and
approved by the World Bank before project effectiveness. The PIM included information
on partners responsible for implementation, both technical and political, at the central and
local levels, and their coordination, as well as a framework for M&E. Before
implementation began, an intensive training program on the PIM was carried out for
IRSEM and implementation partners at the central and provincial levels.

17.     To strengthen reconciliation and reduce potential tensions that may have emerged
if assistance was provided only to ex-combatants, the EC provided a complementary
grant of 13.4 million. The grant financed the social and economic reintegration of
vulnerable populations through: vocational training; promotion of income generating
activities; physical rehabilitation; and social reintegration (sensitization and confidence
building, information on civil rights and responsibilities, information and orientation on
health and sanitation, sexually transmitted diseases, and media and community
campaigns.) The EC grant targeted reintegration support at specific vulnerable groups
(women and children) who were known to have been under-registered through the formal
demobilization process. It also extended support to other war-affected vulnerable
populations in the same communities where ex-combatants resettled.

18.     To overcome weaknesses identified during supervision missions, three additional
technical documents were produced: (a) a guide for the participation of vulnerable
groups, including eligibility and selection criteria, registration forms, and procedures to
insert their data into the MIS; (b) a strategy for monitoring and evaluation (M&E),
including guiding principles, tools, procedures for their use and linkages between M&E
and the MIS; and (c) a strategy for assistance to disabled ex-combatants.

19.     To improve the project's performance vis-à-vis vulnerable groups, two
specialized units were created at the central level with ramifications at the IRSEM
provincial offices: (a) the Registration, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (URMA),
foreseen at the design stage but implemented later, was charged with MIS and recruiting
specialized staff at the central and provincial level; and (b) the Unit to Support the
Reintegration of Vulnerable Groups (UTGV), with staff at the central level and focal
points in key provincial offices, was established to coordinate assistance to the vulnerable
groups.

Mid Term Reviews

20.     The project benefited from a Mid Term Review (MTR) in October 2005, which
recommended the following:

     Harmonize the PDOs in the technical annex and grant agreement to conform with
        the latter, and inform the Board accordingly;


                                               6

     Update the project results framework and revise the project's legal agreement as
         required;
     Harmonize and extend the closing dates of the relevant legal agreements to
         December 31, 2007, to take into consideration (i) the 1-year delay in
         effectiveness, and (ii) the expanded scope and slower start of the vulnerable group
         component;
     Conduct a technical review mission with key MDRP partners to assess the newly
         proposed strategy for addressing reintegration needs of disabled and other special
         target groups; and
     Discuss options for the use of a possible financing surplus with the World Bank
         and MDRP donors.

21.      It also took into account a MTR of the EC grant, which recommended: (i)
encouraging the FAA to accelerate the discharge process; (ii) recruiting specialized
agencies to provide services to severely disabled persons; (iii) launching a call for
proposals from Implementing Partners (IPs) to extend services of reintegration and
rehabilitation to vulnerable ex-combatants; (iv) simplifying administrative approval and
contracting procedures; (v) creating a mechanism in the project's MIS to better plan
reintegration support per province and per municipality; and (vi) improving the quality of
reporting and requests for payments from IPs through training and technical assistance.

22.      Recommendations of the MTRs as well as those of the 2006 external evaluation
were taken into account by ADRP management to improve program performance, as
noted in the 20071 and 20082 external evaluations. Notwithstanding these improvements,
some weaknesses continued to affect the overall implementation of the program, namely
the processing of proposals, assistance to the disabled ex-combatants and FMPU
performance, as described in the next sections.

Cancellation of FAA Demobilization

23.      FAA soldiers were not demobilized as planned, despite the commitment in the
letter of demobilization policy in 2003. Demobilization was to have been completed by
December 31, 2006. Although significant policy, planning and operational preparatory
work was carried out, the demobilization of the FAA only began on a pilot basis, with



1Point 74 of the 2007 evaluation report (page14) by Creative Associates International, Inc.: "IRSEM
implemented recommendations to support vulnerable groups by modifying eligibility criteria in the
implementation manual, creating a specialized unit within IRSEM to work with vulnerable groups, and
establishing partnerships with MINARS and the European Union".

2Points 84 and 85 of the 2008 independent evaluation report (page14): "84. IRSEM has taken steps to
implement recommendations to increase the number of UGFA project visits and simplify the
implementation manual. The December 2006 version of the manual makes project procedures more
accessible, which IPs regard as positive. ...
85. The 2007 evaluation also recommended reorientation towards development, combating poverty and
support to vulnerable groups. Through the ADRP, IRSEM managed to a certain extent to effect this
reorientation, including a greater number of demobilized persons from other processes in the projects,
vulnerable groups, and carrying out projects of a community nature."

                                                    7

278 processed over the life of the project. These delays were attributed to: (i) difficulties
in establishing adequate opportunities for the large number of disabled among those
proposed to be demobilized; (ii) specific challenges regarding the severely disabled and
those with chronic illnesses; (iii) political concerns about the release of a fairly large
number of disabled veterans in the run up to national elections; and (iv) expectations of
support from the disabled in excess of what the program had planned for. To reflect the
delay, the ADRP was reformulated to remove the FAA demobilization from the project
scope, and the MDRP grant was reduced from US$48.4 to US$30.25 million.

Project Extension and Revision of Milestones

24.      Based on a GoA request, the closing dates of the IDA and MDRP grants were
extended to end December 2008. The EC also agreed to extend its grant to December
2008 to harmonize financing parameters. Program milestones were revised as follows:

                                     Milestones                                           Dates
 Starting recruitment of a partner to assist the severely disabled (100% disability)   July 31, 2007
 Reception of the last regular project proposals                                     November 30, 2007
 Reception of the last proposals for VG                                              November 30, 2007
 Signature of the last regular sub-projects                                          December 31, 2007
 Signature of the last sub-projects for VG                                           December 31, 2007
 Contract Signature with the selected partner to assist the severely disabled        December 31, 2007
 Closing of the access window to the program                                          January 31, 2008
 Restructuring of the Project (Program) based on the final project portfolio          January 31, 2008
 Closing of project implementation                                                    October 31, 2008
 Closing of the Project (Program)                                                    December 31, 2008

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

25.      The program established a management information system (MIS), which was
used to: (i) register and monitor beneficiaries to their areas of resettlement and the sub-
projects where they were integrated; (ii) record relevant data from potential IPs and their
capacity evaluation undertaken by IRSEM provincial offices; (iii) control the processing
of reintegration project proposals; (iv) register the delivery of reinsertion support; (v)
monitor payments made to the IPs; (vi) manage reintegration support projects; (vii)
follow-up on beneficiaries, including registering the interviews undertaken after their
participation into a sub-project; and (viii) produce automated reports to support program
management and monthly and quarterly reports for the MDRP.

26.      In addition, the following measures were taken:

     A set of tools were designed to monitor reintegration. Provincial M&E officials
         conducted regular visits to the sub-projects to check progress against the approved
         timetable, enrolment of planned beneficiaries and to assess community perception
         of the sub-project and the reintegration of ex-combatants.
     IRSEM local staff carried out "exit surveys" interviewing 13,012 ex-combatants 3
         to 6 months after their participation in the sub-projects. Subsequently, 4,167 ex-
         combatants were interviewed a second time 3 to 6 months after the first interview,
         and 2,512 were interviewed a third time.


                                                        8

     Several external evaluations were undertaken, including three global external
        evaluations (September/October 2005, June/July 2007 and November/December
        2008), a mid-term review of the vulnerable groups component (April/May 2007)
        and an environmental and social impact assessment (October 2007).
     M&E data were used to improve program performance and correct some sub-
        projects that were not achieving their objectives. The data also allowed IRSEM
        management to provide regular and updated information to MDRP stakeholders.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguards

27.     At appraisal the project was classified as a category B following an environment
assessment. No other safeguard policy was triggered. The project was not expected to
have a significant environmental impact. The phased and widely dispersed reintegration
of ex-combatants into civilian life was environmentally neutral. No major physical works
were undertaken under the program. Micro-project activities, estimated at $400 per ex-
combatant and financed under the reintegration component, were screened for
environmental impact and monitored in accordance with Bank procedures.

Financial Management and Procurement

28.     Given the large and complex nature of ADRP and the short timeframe (three
years) envisaged, the program established an autonomous financial management and
procurement unit (FMPU) to oversee financial and procurement activities. The
international firm KPMG was hired to manage the unit. Given this arrangement, the
initial financial management risk was considered low, although this may have been
ambitious for a project like the ADRP, as well as the Angola's overall high risk
environment. Residual financial management risk remained substantial and although the
arrangement with KPMG worked largely satisfactorily, some audits were qualified due to
cross payments between the various financiers (IDA, MDTF, and EU). The FMPU
arrangement remained in place until the final year when staffing changes by KPMG to
the FMPU team led to the cancellation of the contract before the project closed.

29.     Procurement capacity weaknesses were identified during preparation with both
the GoA and IRSEM. The project addressed these by hiring qualified procurement
experts as part of the FMPU. The PIM also gave ample details on procurement
arrangements to be followed. Nevertheless, three cases of ineligible expenses were
identified during project implementation, with the Bank alerting the auditing unit and
IRSEM. In the first two instances, the expenses were not presented for payment by
IRSEM. In the third case the Bank requested IRSEM to reimburse the amount to the
Special Account.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)




                                                 9

30.      Under normal circumstances, D&R operations and institutions are not set up as
long-term services that Borrowers generally sustain. However, the ADRP supported an
institution, IRSEM, which serves in part as the veterans support agency. Furthermore,
there are pending caseloads that will require further assistance. The Government adopted
a transitional strategy to conclude reintegration activities under the ADRP. The strategy
aims to: (i) reinforce assistance to the ADRP target groups to meet reintegration
objectives; (ii) ensure a "smooth" closing of ADRP; (iii) evaluate the impact of
implemented sub-projects in terms of the level of reintegration achieved; (iv) close
ongoing sub-projects according to the procedures established in the PIM; and (v) identify
lessons for the implementation of future reintegration programs.

31.      As various factors hampered the execution of previous reintegration support
programs (Bicesse and Lusaka Processes), a new program has been designed for socio-
economic reintegration of 150,152 ex-combatants discharged from the FAA into civilian
life. The total budget for this program is estimated at US$300 million, to be covered in
totality by the Government.

32.      The new program will target demobilized ex-combatants from the Bicesse and
Lusaka processes as well as meet other commitments assumed by the Government that
have not been supported by ADRP. Ongoing sub-projects and activities at the close of
the ADRP in December 2008 will be concluded. Beneficiaries' follow-up activities will
be continued to control the reintegration progress and to identify possible complementary
actions. Lastly the continuation of support to targeted ex-combatants will be ensured
through specific national programs.

3.       Assessment of Outcomes

33.      Overall, the ADRP should be applauded for its significant achievements,
especially if compared to other projects in Angola's portfolio. Dealing with ex-
combatants in a post-conflict setting is high risk in and of itself, but in addition the
project was faced with an executing agency with low credibility and capacity and
generally low capacity in the country. Despite these challenges, the project demobilized
almost 100,000 ex-combatants and put in place a vast network of some 250 IPs to provide
reintegration support. Moreover, the project was highly innovative in putting in place
support to widows and communities.

3.1      Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

34.      Relevance of objectives, design and implementation is rated highly substantial
given that demobilizing ex-combatants to promote peace, reconciliation and foster
development after prolonged conflict was essential in Angola's recovery. The inclusion
of UNITA ex-combatants in the ADRP was considered an important national security and
reconciliation measure, thereby supporting macroeconomic stability and increasing the
scope for development work and for private investment.

35.      The Government's request for technical and financial assistance for the ADRP
came at a critical time in the Angolan peace process. IDA involvement was justified by
its considerable experience with such programs, the scale of resources required, the focus


                                                    10

of the program on sustainable economic reintegration of ex-combatants, and the need to
be responsive to a client request. Furthermore, IDA involvement was logical given the
Bank's lead role in the MDRP and the fact that the ADRP fit within that framework.
36.     Failure to act rapidly and professionally to demobilize and reintegrate ex-
combatants posed the risk of widespread residual banditry. Discontented ex-combatants
could also pose a threat to social stability. At the same time, lack of reintegration support
also contributed to a stalling of the peace process, not only in Angola but also in the
greater Great Lakes region. Angola has been a major player in several sub-regional
conflicts, including in the two Congos; several neighboring countries had intervened in
the Angolan conflict.

37.     By helping to finance the reintegration of ex-combatants into civilian life, thereby
easing some of Angola's human capacity constraints, the ADRP provided the
Government with additional means to help achieve social and economic recovery.
Because ex-combatants were widely dispersed throughout the country, these resources
were also injected into the rural economy in the areas of ex-combatant return, forming a
significant stimulus to the local economy.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(Including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 2)

Result 1: Support the GoA to implement its demobilization commitments made under the
Luena Memorandum of Understanding

38.     Under the program framework, 97,112 members of the UNITA ex-Military
Forces were registered, formally integrated into the FAA and demobilized. Additionally,
5,047 UNITA ex-combatants were integrated into the FAA and the national police.

39.     Due to reasons described in paragraph 23 above, the government only
demobilized 278 FAA of the planned 33,000 on a pilot basis; the demobilization of the
remaining FAA members planned was postponed sine die. The table below shows the
final demobilization numbers under the ADRP.

ADRP - Demobilization of ex-combatants
         Adults                       Minors              Total        Target      % of achievement
  Female         Male         Female         Male      demobilized projected
   3,338         94,052          0             0          97,390       105,278            92,5%

40.     IRSEM also delivered resettlement kits to 43,675 ex-combatants and paid the
transitional allowances to 52,720 ex-combatants, as shown in the table below.

ADRP ­ Reinsertion support to ex-combatants (government financed)
                                      Adults
                                                          Total receiving     Target            % of
                             Female            Male                          projected       achievement

In kind (kits)                 1,141          42,534          43,675          62,716            69.6%

In cash                         933           51,787          52,720          62,716            84.1%




                                                    11

Note: the target numbers are the number of UNITA combatants who reported to demobilization centers by
the agreed cut-off date of August 21, 2002. Additional UNITA combatants were demobilized after this date
but they were not guaranteed reinsertion support.


41.      The delivery of reinsertion packages was done before implementation of the MIS
thus some ex-combatants received this benefit twice. However, duplication rates are
relatively low, as shown in the table below.

ADRP ­ Duplication of Reinsertion Benefits (government financed)
       Benefit          N.º of Benefits delivered   N.º of Beneficiaries receiving   Duplication rate

In kind (kits)                   46,455                        43,675                     6.37%

In cash                          56,864                        52,720                     7.86%

Result 2: Improved livelihoods of program beneficiaries (at a minimum) to the level of
the communities of resettlement

42.      Under the ADRP framework, the numbers of the economic reintegration
component at closing (December 31, 2008) were the following3:

     Around 500 sub-project proposals were received and 265 sub-projects approved
         under the framework of ADRP. However, due to the time limitations to analyze,
         approve and contract all the sub-projects, only 177 were funded by ADRP.
     The remaining sub-projects (88) will be financed and implemented under the
         framework of the new Government Reinforcement of Reintegration Program
         (PGRR). The implementation of the new program will increase the beneficiaries'
         coverage; thus the number of assisted ex-combatants and vulnerable groups will
         reach most of the planned targets.
     The reintegration opportunities created by these sub-projects and the beneficiaries
         registered into the MIS, as well as the percentage of registers in relation with the
         target are shown into the following table.

         Type of beneficiary               Target      Opportunities (*)  Registered/MIS (*) % registers
                                                                                              /targets
Ex-combatants (primary
opportunities), excluding women and        91,718          70,526              57,494          62.7
disabled ex-combatants
Youth and children associated with
fighting forces                            16,000          26,245              14,535          90.8

Women (**)                                 16,000          22,466              10,196          63.7

Disabled ex-combatants (**)                12,500          10,238               5,358          42.9
Complementary opportunities for ex-
combatants                                 20,160          18,750               5,716          28.4

                                 Total    156,378         148,225              93,299          59.7
  Note: The column "Target" shows the target numbers of demobilized ex-combatants. "Registered/MIS"




3For details, see Annex 2.



                                                   12

  shows the number of beneficiaries that were recorded in the MIS (not all demobilized were registered).
  "Opportunities" refers to the number of reintegration options offered to beneficiaries.
  (*) Including 3.115 beneficiaries of the sub-projects implemented under the Special Project and the
  beneficiaries of FAO agriculture kits that didn't receive assistance through a sub-project.
  (**) Including 1,981 women and 3,691 disabled ex-combatants.
42.       It is important to note that the percentage of coverage was not expected to reach
100% since ex-combatants could opt not to claim reintegration support. The "self-
reintegration" rate is conservatively estimated at about 20%.

43.       The total cost of approved proposals was over US$77 million, of which US$62
million were foreseen to be funded by ADRP, while the remaining US$15 million were
direct contributions from IPs or from other donors. Opportunities created represent 94.8%
of the planned target, while the registration into the MIS only represents 59.7 % of the
targets at closing. The large discrepancy (54,926) can be explained by: (i) delays in
approving and contracting the last 105 sub-projects, many of which could not be started
because the signature of contracts happened after the December 31, 2007 agreed
milestone; (ii) shortfalls in mobilizing beneficiaries; and (iii) difficulties in gathering data
on those ex-combatants enrolled in sub-projects very far from provincial capitals.

44.       As part of M&E, approximately 13,000 ex-combatants were interviewed 3 to 6
months after receiving reintegration support. According to the data gathered, 58.6% of
ex-combatants are self-employed; 36.8 % are unemployed, 4.6% are formally employed,
and 91.2% have access to agriculture land. External evaluations, including the last
independent evaluation in 2008 confirmed that "there is a general feeling of social and
economic reintegration on the part of the beneficiaries and some cases of significant
improvement in living conditions".4 The 2007 evaluation considered that "ex-combatants
recognized that the support provided through ADRP was critical to resuming civilian
lives. A significant number of beneficiaries say they achieved better social and economic
conditions than the rest of their community".

Result 3: Increased social acceptance of program beneficiaries in destination
communities.

45.       Beneficiary interviews showed that 99% are living with their families and the
great majority of them feel socially reintegrated (94%). Some 99.4% consider that they
have been well received by the community without any problem of social acceptance.
The external evaluation undertaken in November/December 2008 noted that, "in general
terms, the social reintegration of ex-combatants in receiving communities was good and
their reintegration did not cause very serious problems. There was generally good
collaboration among receiving communities (for example in terms of handing over land
to be divided into individual production plots), including for ex-combatants from other
communities in the province and even from other provinces".




4 On November and December 2008, the evaluation team surveyed 40 ex-combatants and community members
selected at random from among the groups convoked by the Implementing Partners and IRSEM; also for the purpose of
evaluating the program impact, the evaluation team organized 16 interviews with focus groups and a total of about 250
ex-combatants and community members, for a total of more than 290 interviews.



                                                        13

46.     The same evaluation stated that "traditional authorities, religious organizations
and some residents, despite also being in need of support, played an important role in the
reconciliation of families. In many villages, pacification rituals were performed for
families that had been divided because of the war. Actions were carried out through
specific local mechanisms to pardon those that had killed during the war."

Result 4: Significantly reduced levels of social and economic vulnerability of special
target groups.

47.     IRSEM placed increasing importance on vulnerable groups in the last two years
of the program. The ADRP provided specialized support for the social and economic
reintegration of specific strata of the target group: female ex-combatants, widows of
eligible ex-combatants, wives to whom ex-combatants have transferred their participation
rights, disabled ex-combatants, and young children of ex-combatants, most of whom
were not registered as part of the demobilization process and whose support was made
possible through the EC grant.

48.     The assistance to disabled ex-combatants in terms of provision of specialized
rehabilitation services was the most challenging area of ADRP due to the lack of capacity
of the existing Physical Rehabilitation Centers (10) and the scarcity of logistic conditions
(transportation, housing, etc.) to undertake the medical screening of the disabled (at the
resettlement areas or capital of provinces) and to provide the required specialized services
(always at the provincial capitals).

49.     In terms of economic reintegration, ADRP created opportunities to support 10,238
disabled ex-combatants while 5,360 were registered into the MIS as receiving economic
reintegration support. The program also provided physical rehabilitation (mainly
orthopedic assistance) to 777 disabled ex-combatants as registered by the MIS.

50.     The assistance provided by ADRP to youth and children associated with fighting
forces reached a total of 14,535, and included access to education (11,758 direct
beneficiaries registered into the MIS), support to the promotion of income generating
activities (1,496 beneficiaries registered) and vocational training (897 beneficiaries
registered).

51.     The program created opportunities for 22,466 women and registered 10,196 of
them into the MIS. Assistance included the provision of agriculture inputs and technical
assistance, support to the promotion of income generating activities (micro loans) and the
delivery of short-term vocational training. Women also benefited from health centers and
day-nurseries that were constructed or rehabilitated through on-the-job training of ex-
combatants supported by the project.

52.     Lastly, in June 2008, the program recruited a specialized consortium of firms to
reinforce the delivery of specialized services to severely disabled ex-combatants.

53.     Due to the limited time available to implement the project, some outputs were not
delivered, which meant a reduction of 45% of the total project payment (consulting
services and reimbursable costs). For example, training on wheelchairs and seating as
well as auditive rehabilitation was not provided; and equipment planned to be purchased
under the procurement plan has not left the port of origin.

                                             14

Result 5: Increased capacity to coordinate, supervise and manage the delivery of
assistance to target groups by the Program Implementation Unit (IRSEM).

54.     Since the preliminary stages of ADRP, a set of training programs were carried out
to increase the capacity of IRSEM to coordinate, supervise and manage the delivery of
assistance to target groups.

55.     Internally within IRSEM and its structures, the main obstacles were: the model
established for the FMPU ­ external to IRSEM; the lack of articulation between the
programming part and the financial part of the program; the conception and management
of information/communication between units and between the provincial and central
structures; and the insufficient empowerment of IRSEM and its human resources.
Although     these   problems      were     addressed    systematically     throughout     project
implementation, gaps remained that affected project efficiency.

56.     Although important investments were made in terms of recruitment and training,
M&E was "in global terms, inadequate, insufficient and slow. The system of monitoring
did not work promptly enough in the identification of insufficiencies and in the indication
of timely corrective measures".5

57.     ADRP enabled IRSEM to strengthen its capacity in reintegration. Essentially,
IRSEM staff was trained before and during program implementation and will benefit
from the lessons generated for future projects.

58.     The involvement of various governmental structures in the process of
reconciliation, the integration of members of UNITA in the National Commission for the
Social and Productive Reintegration of the Demobilized and Displaced (CNRSPDD) and
in IRSEM itself, and the setting up of Commissions for the Evaluation of Projects
(CCAPs) benefitted the development of the program. Specific institutional adaptations
incorporated under the ADRP are indicated for adoption under the government's follow-
on program, including the use of independent auditors, annual evaluations and an
autonomous financial management and procurement unit.

3.3     Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

59.     The project was designed to minimize costs without compromising quality. This
was achieved by relying on existing structures wherever possible, rather than creating
new ones. The cost per beneficiary of the program was projected at $1,200 at the start of
the project, and ended up being slightly higher, but still well within the range of
comparable programs in sub-Saharan Africa. The removal of the 33,000 FAA soldiers
from the project scope resulted in program fund cancellations, thus not increasing the
overall per unit cost.




5Cristina Udelsmann & others, Report of the ADRP Annual Independent Evaluation, December 2008.

                                               15

3.4      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately satisfactory
60.      The overall outcome rating is moderately satisfactory based on highly substantial
relevance of the project, a moderately satisfactory PDO achievement and a satisfactory
rating for efficiency. The main objective of the ADRP was to help the GoA create long
term sustainable social development and support macroeconomic stability in its territory
through the demobilization and reintegration of up to138,000 ex-combatants, the support
to vulnerable groups, and the reinforcement of capacity at the institutional program
levels. This objective was partly achieved with 92% of UNITA ex-combatants
demobilized, but the FAA soldiers were not discharged during the life of the project.

61.      Reintegration support was provided to 77% of demobilized ex-combatants, with
training and longer term reintegration assistance opportunities. The reach of the project in
the end was much larger than the groups of beneficiaries it intended to support initially.
The country as a whole benefitted from the project. "In summary, the DDR program has
laid the foundation for sustained economic and social recovery, especially in those
regions like the central highlands (Planalto) that had experienced considerable damage
during the war 6 ." The Angola CAS evaluation also rates the ADRP outcome as
moderately satisfactory.

3.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

62.      The ADRP was integrated within the broader efforts of the GoA to fight poverty
and provide support to the most vulnerable, including ex-combatants. With the EC grant,
the ADRP funded increasing numbers of sub-projects involving vulnerable groups
(women, youth and disabled) contributing to reduce poverty in rural areas and to increase
community social assets.

63.      Thanks to the ADRP, IRSEM managed to carry out many sub-projects of a
community nature, such as the construction/rehabilitation of schools, rural health centers,
day-nurseries, and dirt roads. These activities often involved the beneficiaries themselves,
through on-the-job training and/or temporary employment, contributing to community
reconciliation and a sense of common purpose.

     Summary of some community works developed by ADRP
        Type of community work       Quantity         Estimated beneficiaries (*)
      Schools (classrooms)            95 (380)                  38.000
      Rural Health Centers               7                       7.000
      Community agriculture
      warehouses                        25                       2.500




6Angola Country Assistance Evaluation. Report 39829. World Bank, October 1, 2007.



                                                16

      Community social centers
      ("Njangos")                               15                 4.500

      Day-nurseries                             8                  600
     (*) Direct and indirect beneficiaries (community members).
64.      Despite long delays, the ADRP eventually provided support to 6,788 women,
either ex-combatants or wives and partners of demobilized ex-combatants. The UGTV
never hired a gender specialist, but several sub-projects included innovative gender
interventions such as the registration of children, and the provision of child care facilities
to allow women to participate in training and income generating activities. Lastly,
towards the end of the program, the ADRP endorsed a gender study on urban young men
at-risk of engaging in conflict in Angola, which was funded by the MDRP's Learning for
Equity, Access and Peace (LEAP) Program.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

65.      As discussed above, capacity building supported by ADRP was substantial,
especially at the IRSEM and IP levels. IRSEM provincial offices and central
departments, and more than 80 IP were mobilized and greatly empowered to implement
reintegration interventions. ADRP contributed to strengthening the capacity of local,
national and international NGOs it partnered with to implement reintegration activities,
helping them to shift from emergency operations (the predominant interventions during
the long conflict) towards development projects and to strengthen their administration,
fiscal management and accountability ­ benefits which will endure beyond the life of the
program itself.

66.      Additionally, ADRP financed the rehabilitation of 50 IDA (Institute for
Agricultural Development) outposts, and has provided, through the program strategic
partner (FAO), technical support and training to agrarian technicians to build their
capacity. However, the technicians were insufficiently involved in the projects, despite
ADRP's intention to integrate the IDA outposts and the Veterinary Services into the
program through Institutional Protocols signed with these entities.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

67.      An indirect and unforeseen effect of the sub-projects was the creation of groups
and associations of local farmers for the development and improvement of working
conditions and the generation of income for participants (ex-combatants and community
members). These groups/associations have played and continue to play an important role
in the development of traditional agriculture through:

     Dialogue and access to regular agriculture development programs promoted by
         the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (provision of seeds,
         fertilizers, etc.);
     Facilitation of the use of common resources such as cattle, tractors and
         accessories, warehouses, camps for the multiplication of seeds, technical
         assistance;
     Joint access to markets where prices are higher (Luanda, Benguela and other
         cities) and requiring more valuable agriculture products (vegetables, fruits, etc);


                                                        17

     Creation of small cooperatives to transform agriculture products increasing their
        value and improving their life.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(Optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

68.     Surveys undertaken by IRSEM showed that the social reintegration of ex-
combatants targeted by ADRP was very successful:
     Around 99% of interviewed beneficiaries are living with their families;
     The number of children per family increased since the demobilization time until
        now from 1.15 to around 5 (in average);
     Around 99% of interviewed beneficiaries consider themselves as having been well
        accepted by the community; and
     More than 90% consider themselves as reintegrated in their communities of
        resettlement.

69.     In terms of economic reintegration, even if ex-combatants generally consider
themselves as being better off that other community members, the situation is still
complex and needs to be monitored by IRSEM as follows7:
     More than 50% of the beneficiaries are integrated in economic activities
        (employed or self-employed);
     Around 80% of the beneficiaries consider that they have a level of monthly
        income smaller than the national minimum salary;
     More than 60% have tried to find employment, but only a minority is employed
        (4,53% in the first interview);
     At least 75% use the tools received from the program;
     More than 90% of the interviewed have land for agriculture.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: LOW

70.     Justification.      The risk that the project development outcome will not be
maintained is low. The UNITA movement was effectively disbanded, thus leaving little
to no chance for remobilization of ex-FMU ex-combatants. Moreover, the various
independent evaluations and surveys carried out over the life of the program show that
most beneficiaries are well reintegrated into their communities of return and are able to
sustain a livelihood through agriculture or other forms of employment. The long term
effect of reintegration support cannot be foreseen with certainty, but the ADRP has
helped reinforce the capacity of many stakeholders, both local and national, who will
continue to provide support to ex-combatants and their communities in a follow-up
program financed by the government. It is expected that this continued support will
strengthen the outcome obtained during the ADRP.




7Further details in annex 5.



                                                18

5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(Relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1      Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

71.      Bank performance at entry is rated satisfactory. The Bank project team responded
quickly to the request from the GoA for support to its demobilization efforts, all the while
setting up the appropriate mitigation measures to address identified risks of low capacity
in the GoA and the implementing unit. The project clearly fit within the Bank strategy for
assistance to Angola. The Bank provided excellent management and coordination of the
various sources of funding (IDA, MDRP, EC). The project was processed quickly as an
emergency operation. However, the Bank lacked foresight when establishing as a
condition of project effectiveness the recruitment of an international financial
management firm, knowing that the required procurement process would take at least six
months before a selection could be made. This delay in effectiveness was mitigated by
the funding of an MDRP-funded special project implemented by UNDP to jump-start the
ADRP until the other sources of funding would become effective.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(Including /fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

72.      The quality of supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank carried out regular
supervision missions to Angola (three or four times per year in the early stages of
implementation then twice a year) with the participation of relevant technical specialists
to oversee all aspects of the project. Moreover, by financing technical specialists, the
MDRP allowed the Bank to provide enhanced project supervision over the life of the
project. The Bank team was able to accurately assess fiduciary and safeguard aspects,
development outcomes, and to report candidly on issues identified. The Bank's
performance was lacking in the area of financial management due to the difficulty in
finding qualified FM specialists who spoke Portuguese.

73.      In 2005, a Bank internal review of project supervision resulted in an excellent
rating for the team, who received an award on this occasion. The Bank was not able to
travel to Angola to carry out a final supervision mission before the project closed due to
the impossibility to obtain visas to Angola. Nevertheless, at that stage in the life of the
project, most components had already reached their target beneficiaries (with the
exception of the FAA soldiers) and the project team continued regular contacts with the
implementing agency and other partners to support final activities before project closing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

                                              19

74.     The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. A procurement consultant
was in place throughout the life of the project, greatly enhancing the capacity of the Bank
team to monitor implementation. The FMPU also played an important role, with the
availability of electronic records facilitating quality supervision. Finally, the Bank team
was able to undertake field visits during every mission, which is typically difficult in
post-conflict contexts.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

75.     Government performance is rated satisfactory. The GoA contributed the largest
proportion of funds to the project (US$76 million or 44% at appraisal). If the cost of
demobilization is also considered, the share of government funding reaches more than
US$157 million. The government also contributed counterpart funds to the various
project components according to a set percentage. Political support for the program
allowed for this high level of results. However several conditions of effectiveness were
met much later than anticipated, creating an initial delay of one year before
implementation could start. Moreover, the inability of the government to develop a
framework for the discharge of the 33,000 FAA soldiers as agreed in the letter of
demobilization policy was a clear shortcoming.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

76.     The performance of IRSEM is rated moderately satisfactory. At the outset of the
project, IRSEM's credibility generally and among implementing partners was very low;
thus the ability of IRSEM to effectively manage such a complex project in a high risk
environment is noteworthy. Moreover, implementing agency staff was trained during
workshops at the start of the project, thus allowing IRSEM to take on the complex task of
launching and monitoring more than 250 sub-projects with a large number of
implementation partners, all with various levels of capacity. Based on this indicator
alone, the achievement of IRSEM was remarkable. A higher rating may have been
possible if the agency had displayed greater proactivity in its responses to the Bank's
recommendations to close sub-projects that were finished and to execute pending
payments to contractors. This led to several complaints. The M&E system experienced
some shortfalls and there were delays in installing adequate technical capacity to address
the specific needs of the vulnerable group component. Also there were a few cases of
ineligible expenditures.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

77.     The overall borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The
leadership of the GoA and IRSEM was significant in achieving the project results.
Moreover, the difficult context in which the project was implemented, after decades of


                                              20

civil war and latent mistrust among members of various factions, must be considered.
However, higher levels of cooperation with the Bank and faster response times to launch
many sub-projects before the agreed deadlines would have allowed the project to reach a
larger number of beneficiaries.

6.      Lessons
(Both project-specific and of wide general application)

Positive Factors

78.     The creation of a favorable environment was conducive to the political and
national reconciliation success. Contributing to this success was: the adoption of an
Amnesty Law, the program's strong emphasis on community participation (civil society,
churches), the involvement of various sectors and institutions in the demobilization
process, the continued dialogue with the former belligerent groups, large sensitization
campaigns, the promotion of citizenship principles, and the promotion of a permanent
involvement of UNITA into the full DDR process.

79.     The experience of the project highlighted the importance of locally defining each
reintegration support intervention, starting from the local context, the demand of services
and the profile of the target group, stimulating the permanence of ex-militaries in rural
areas, and reinforcing the skills at various endogenous and exogenous knowledge levels.

80.     A strong and permanent involvement of the local authorities also proved valuable
for the project. Local authorities were key players into the reintegration process and were
widely involved in the M&E of ex-militaries' reintegration support. The involvement of
local authorities represented an efficient and permanent follow-up of reintegration
support and facilitated the reconciliation and the promotion of peace at the community
level.

Areas for Improvement

81.     Implementation was affected by some weaknesses in the project, which constitute
lessons for future implementations of DDR programs by IRSEM as follows:

 The absence of a sufficient number of qualified IPs was a problem. Lack of NGOs
    and other partners with capacity in Angola, despite having increased in recent years,
    did not allow for the national coverage foreseen in the ADRP. Furthermore, activities
    and types of projects included in the ADRP did not correspond, in the majority of
    cases, to the type of vocation and qualifications of the IP, so that these partners had to
    adapt to both the procedures and objectives of the projects. IP had different levels of
    capability (technical; administrative and managerial; financial; social/community
    action), which had direct implications on project results. The identification of IPs
    with an appropriate technical profile and with management capacity and financial
    autonomy was of vital importance for the success of sub-projects.

 From the outset, the program had cumbersome and slow administrative procedures,
    which resulted in payment delays. The most serious consequence of this situation was
    the long period required to allocate resources for the implementation of the sub-


                                              21

    projects vis-à-vis the periods that were appropriate for their use. For example, this
    often caused the non-availability of seeds where needed at the best times for sowing,
    or the non-availability of construction materials during the dry season. Delays in
    payments were fundamentally due to bureaucratic deficiencies at the level of central
    management, to poor administrative capacity and management of IPs, especially with
    regard to the submission of proof of expenses incurred, which was a condition for
    refund.

 The failure to predict difficulties regarding transport, storage and distribution of
    inputs (cattle, seeds, kits, etc.) led to poorer results on the part of the IP. These
    difficulties could very rarely be addressed and the additional amounts spent
    recovered.

 M&E were not adjusted in line with the progress of the relevant projects and, in many
    cases the system did not work promptly enough to identify shortcomings and timely
    corrective measures.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing/Agencies/
Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

78.     The Borrower and its implementing agency, IRSEM, consider that the World
Bank (WB) and the MDRP have contributed to peace and stability in Angola, as well as
in the Great Lakes region. They expect to continue to collaborate with the WB in future
programs. IRSEM considered that the MDRP staff provided important technical
assistance and training in areas such as the MIS, monitoring and evaluation, assistance to
disabled ex-combatants and other vulnerable groups (especially women), and organized a
very useful study tour in Sierra Leone. However, IRSEM's view is that the results
achieved under the program could have been maximized if there had been a permanent
MDRP presence in Angola, if some WB procedures could have been simplified and
several critical decisions taken quickly.

79.     The following comments can be made in response to the key points raised by
IRSEM:

    i) Permanent presence in Angola of a senior MDRP staff member. This certainly
        could have facilitated ADRP implementation; however the available resources did
        not allow the MDRP Secretariat to field a senior staff member in each one of the
        seven countries covered by this regional program.

    ii) Lack of procedural flexibility. The PIM was based on the guidelines established
        by the Bank for this type of operation and they could not be by-passed without
        posing serious problems to the successful implementation of the signed grant
        agreements. On several occasions, supervision missions undertaken by
        WB/MDRP teams drew IRSEM's attention to the fact "that the project took a
        long time to process procurement activities. Often, contracts are not awarded
        within the bid validity period and in many instances, bids expire and require
        extensions before technical reviews have been completed". The missions also
        recommended "that all actions are completed in the planned period and if for

                                             22

         some reason there are delays, there is a need to request extension of bids validity
         and bid securities".

    iii) Short-term timeframe for implementation of a large number of sub-projects. Once
         again, the missions always "expressed significant concern about sub-project
         processing and implementation issues including unacceptably long times for sub-
         project approvals; unduly stringent application of financial and other review
         processes, and an unacceptably large number of open sub-projects that had
         passed   their   contract    closing   dates   without fulfilling project  closing
         requirements". As a result, the Bank "recommended a detailed review of the
         processes   and     procedures    around    sub-project  review,   approval   and
         implementation in order to identify ways of streamlining procedures and speeding
         up implementation". To help IRSEM overcome these problems, several
         workshops were organized by the MDRP team with the participation of central
         and provincial officials and staff of the key Implementing Partners.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not available.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

80.      Implementing Partners (IPs) recognized that their participation in the program
was very positive and helped them move faster from emergency to development. Even if
they consider that in general IRSEM has provided a good assistance to the sub-projects,
they highlighted some aspects for enhancement:

    (i) The long time needed to approve sub-project proposals and to pay the second and
         the third installments of sub-contacts. The delays were a consequence of two
         different issues: the difficulties faced by the IP themselves to present the
         expenditures and financial reports as required by the PIM, which did not allow
         IRSEM/FMPU to process payments without additional delays; and, the lack of
         appropriate communication between IRSEM provincial and central offices, which
         extended the time needed for processing IP proposals and requests. The
         WB/MDRP support missions tried to help overcome these delays, but
         IRSEM/FMPU should have invested more in training of IP staff (before the start
         of sub-projects) and provision of targeted assistance to help IPs understand and
         apply PIM procedures.

    (ii) The lack of cooperation and understanding of the Consortium implementing the
         FMPU. The Consortium was contracted by IRSEM and its activity was controlled
         by IRSEM management. However, the Implementation Support Missions, as this
         one undertaken in June 2007, was pleased "with IRSEM's submission of a
         proposal to correct a number of the issues highlighted as constraints to the
         efficient processing and implementation of sub-projects. The issues included
         approval requirements for the use of contingency funds and reallocations between
         cost categories; line-item versus cost category expenditure controls; and delays in
         extending closed contracts."



                                               23

   (iii)The duration of sub-projects. The Bank did not impose any limit to the duration
       of sub-projects. The experience showed that the nine months planned initially
       were too short for the mobilization of beneficiaries, the presentation of progress
       and financial reports and the payment of second and third installments of the sub-
       contracts. In accordance, the duration was extended and several addenda to the
       contracts were approved by MDRP. Once again, the slow processing of addenda
       also delayed the process and rendered almost ineffective their original purposes.

81.     The ADRP Strategic Partner, FAO, highlighted a communication problem
between the different ADRP stakeholders and the time required to process proposals.
This was also noted by the WB/MDRP support missions and several workshops were
organized during the program. As a follow-up to the workshop, the Bank suggested to
IRSEM that:

   a) "All recommended simplifications and streamlining efforts be put in place
        immediately to ensure rapid processing of all current and new sub-projects;

   b) Better communication and cooperation between FMPU, DEP and Provincial
        offices to clarify roles and responsibilities and to put the recommended actions in
        place to significantly reduce sub-project processing times;

   c) All options for improving the speed and reliability of documentation movement
        between provincial and central levels should be utilized (DHL, scanning, etc.);
        and

   d) A simple system is required to adequately track the movement of project files
        from proposal submission to contract signature, and the status of project files
        should be checked weekly by the General Direction of IRSEM to identify and
        resolve any bottlenecks."




                                             24

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                     Percentage of
                                   (USD millions)   Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)         Appraisal

DEMOBILIZATION                            0.00               0.00             0
REINTEGRATION                            57.72               0.00            32%
TRANSITIONAL
ASSISTANCE                               71.34                               40%

ASSISTANCE TO SPECIAL
TARGET GROUPS                            31.625              0.00            18%

INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AND
PROGRAM                                  10.53               0.00            6%

IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT


            Total Baseline Cost        171.215               0.00             --

Contingencies                             8.56               0.00            4%

            Total Project Costs        179.775               0.00           100%



(b) Financing

                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds             Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing    (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)     millions)
Borrower                                             77.0           76.6        43%
IDA GRANT FOR POST-
CONFLICT                                            33.00          32.15        18%

Bilateral Agencies (unidentified)                    69.7           36.1        39%
                                Total               179.7        144.85        100%




                                            25

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Demobilization. Final destination

                                       Demobilized ex-combatants

   Province          Adults          Children
                                                      Total        Target       % of
               Female      Male    Female   Male                             achievement

 Bengo              42        635        0      0          677       -            -

 Benguela          203     11.899        0      0       12.102       -            -

 Bié               488     11.251        0      0       11.739       -            -

 Cabinda             0          5        0      0            5       -            -

 Cunene             17        409        0      0          426       -            -

 Huambo            777     24.528        0      0       25.305       -            -

 Huíla             149      6.725        0      0        6.874       -            -

 K.Kubango         243      4.610        0      0        4.853       -            -

 K. Norte            3        442        0      0          445       -            -

 K. Sul            464      7.458        0      0        7.922       -            -

 Luanda            202      2.214        0      0        2.416       -            -

 Lunda N.           11      1.181        0      0        1.192       -            -

 Lunda S.           28      1.477        0      0        1.505       -            -

 Malanje            84      3.545        0      0        3.629       -            -

 Moxico             83      1.748        0      0        1.831       -            -

 Namibe              8         81        0      0           89       -            -

 Uíge               12      2.175        0      0        2.187       -            -

 Zaire               0        171        0      0          171       -            -

 N/defined          535    13.487        0      0       14.022       -            -

        Total     3.349    94.041        0      0       97.390      105.278         92,5%


Reintegration. Distribution by geographical area (province) of the beneficiaries
registered into the MIS

                        Adults             Children
     Province                                               Subtotal  Target      % of
                   Female     Male  Female       Male                        achievement

 Bengo                   46     647       0              0      693         -           0
 Benguela             1.787    9.615  1.665          1.879   14.946         -           0
 Bié                   885    10.511     42             45   11.483         -           0

 Cunene                  23     542      16             12      593         -           0
 Huambo               1.397   20.759  2.611          2.924   27.691         -           0
 Huíla                1.539    6.864    382            447     9.232        -           0

 Kuando Kubango        233     3.887     86            107     4.313        -           0
 Kwanza Norte          379      386     501            508     1.774        -           0
 Kwanza Sul           1.923    7.247    618            913   10.701         -           0

 Luanda               1.173     555      89             31     1.848        -           0
 Lunda Norte             23    1.415     89             89     1.616        -           0



                                           26

Lunda Sul            18     843         0             0       861           -             0
Malanje             233   1.693         0             0      1.926          -             0
Moxico              189   1.024      232            278     1.723           -             0

Namibe                 8     63        36            31       138           -             0
Uíge                606   2.133        67           127     2.933           -             0
Zaíre               193     212      230            193       828           -             0

           Total  10.655 68.396    6.664          7.584     93.299   156.378        59,7%


Disabled and Women ex-combatants registered into the MIS

                                   Women                              Disabled
         Province
                           Total         % the assisted       Total        % the assisted

 Bengo                             41              6,45                17            2,67

 Benguela                         120              1,25               547            5,72

 Bié                              424              4,20               463            4,58

 Cunene                            12              2,99                21            5,24

 Huambo                           537              2,83               677            3,57

 Huíla                            149              1,89               955           12,14

 Kuando Kubango                   195              5,87                19            0,57

 Kwanza Norte                        3             0,72                27            6,51

 Kwanza Sul                       368              5,38               428            6,26

 Luanda                            18              9,33               130           67,36

 Lunda Norte                       21              1,49                36            2,56

 Lunda Sul                         15              1,90                 2            0,25

 Malanje                           20              1,18               275           16,23

 Moxico                            44              4,35                37            3,66

 Namibe                              4             6,56                 3            4,92

 Uíge                              10              0,48                39            1,87

 Zaíre                               0             0,00                15            8,67

                  Total          1.981             3,02             3.691            5,63


Community Vulnerable Groups registered into the MIS

                        Women                       Children                   Port. Def.
     Province
                  Total % the VG assisted   Total     % the VG assisted  Total  % the VG assisted

Bengo               5       100,00          0,00            0,00           0           0,00

Benguela          1.628      28,93        3676,00          65,33          243          4,32

Bié               399        70,12          87,00          15,29          81           14,24

Cunene              1         0,69          28,00          19,44          113          78,47

Huambo            619         9,04        5637,00          82,34          387          5,65


                                         27

     Huíla                  1.409    56,91       788,00          31,83       201         8,12

     Kuando Kubango           2      0,96        201,00          96,17        0          0,00

     Kwanza Norte           417      27,29       1064,00         69,63        0          0,00

     Kwanza Sul             1.499    44,31       1556,00         45,99       270         7,98

     Luanda                 1.080    68,61       117,00           7,43       372         23,63

     Lunda Norte              2      1,03        180,00          92,78        0          0,00

     Lunda Sul                0      0,00          0              0,00        0          0,00

     Malanje                213     100,00         0              0,00        0          0,00

     Moxico                 149      20,75        511            71,17        0          0,00

     Namibe                   2      2,78          69            95,83        0          0,00

     Uíge                   595      72,74        194            23,72        0          0,00

     Zaíre                  195      31,10        427            68,10        0          0,00

                    Total   8.215    32,86       14.535          58,13      1.667        6,67


       Sub-projects approved and financed by ADRP

  Province           Municipality      MIS Code          IP         Benef.  Total cost  IP cont.  ADRP

Bengo       All the Province         BGO/001/2006 V. Mundial           556     219.387     46.744  172.643
                                                          Subtotal     556     219.387     46.744  172.643
Benguela    Balombo                  BGA/006/2005 CARITAS               800    254.508     10.300  244.208
            Bocoio                   BGA/004/2005 ALISEI               800     287.348          0  287.348
            Chongoroi                BGA/005/2005 ODLAC                 500    169.626      2.765  166.861
            Cubal                    BGA/002/2005 ADRA                1.000    347.577     10.470  337.107
            Ganda                    BGA/003/2005 ADRA                1.000    345.138      7.554  337.584
            Caimbambo                BGA/007/2005 SERVIR                200     72.416      2.640   69.776
            Benguela                 BGA/002/2006 CORB                  250    879.729   583.482   296.247
            Balombo                  BGA/001/2006 Missão                411    192.911     40.075  152.835
            Ganda                    BGA/004/2006 M. Ndunde             618    352.717     75.999  276.718
            All the Province         BGA/003/2006 V. Mundial            250    410.410   111.210   299.200
            Lobito                   BGA/007/2006 SERVIR                100     27.529      1.000   26.529
            Lobito                   BGA/008/2006 CRP Cabaia            175     40.649          0   40.649
            Lobito                   BGA/006/2006 Inforpesca           100      67.867      3.555   64.312
            Lobito                   BGA/005/2006 CFP Lobito           120      50.481          0   50.481
            Bocoio II                BGA/009/2006 ALISEI              1.200    473.533          0  473.533
            Balombo II               BGA/001/2007 CARITAS             1.620    479.288      4.000  475.288
            Balombo                  BGA/003/2007 AAESMC                905    377.647     80.370  297.277
            Ganda                    BGA/020/2007 GTZ                 1.200    570.911     70.952  499.959
            Cubal                    BGA/014/2007 GTZ                 1.200    550.414     50.500  499.914
            Balombo                  BGA/007/2007 AAF                  265   49.823,30  19.947,50   29.876
            Bocoio                   BGA/006/2007 AAF                  265   49.722,30  19.947,50   29.775
            Caimbambo                BGA/004/2007 SERVIR                160  37.420,50   8.000,00   29.421
            Lobito                   BGA/005/2007 SERVIR                162  36.759,96   7.500,00   29.260
            Cubal                    BGA/013/2007 AGRISUD             1.250 521.661,28     22.614  499.047
            Benguela                 BGA/012/2007 Escola Sijoma          86  63.934,26          0   63.934
            Chongoroi                BGA/010/2007 AAESMC                250  38.203,25      8.686   29.517
            Benguela                 BGA/015/2007 Dom Bosco             290 233.536,99   108.527   125.010


                                               28

        Baía Farta          BGA/009/2007 SERVIR              420 227.319,55    50.374   176.946
        Caimbambo           BGA/008/2007 SERVIR              640 303.354,90    62.825   240.530
        Bocoio              BGA/021/2007 KWATOKO           1.200 301.980,00     2.380   299.600
        Benguela            BGA/001/2008 Ig. Baptista       339   60.401,64    12.882    47.520
        Chongoroi           BGA//2008    AAESMC              875 361.714,40   104.755   296.736
        Ganda               BGA/002/2008 AAF                220  113.781,05    23.108    90.673
        Bocoio              BGA/006/2008 KWATOCO             355 193.938,49    40.520   153.418
        Ganda               BGA//2008    V. Mundial           70  55.754,00    11.000    44.754
        Balombo             BGA/004/2008 AMMIGA              80   75.599,20    17.434    58.165
        Benguela            BGA/003/2008 Ir. Cons.Jesus      400 244.688,58    62.454   182.234
        Lobito&Benguela     BGA//2008    AAF                 30   38.770,04     9.222    29.548
                                                 Subtotal 19.806  8.959.060 1.647.049 7.351.787
Bié     Kamacupa            BIE/003/2005 Accord            1.000   349.985      8.181   341.804
        Andulo              BIE/001/2005 ADMA              1.504    444.422    11.800   432.622
        Catabola            BIE/002/2005 Accord             600     210.002     1.100   208.902
        Chinguar            BIE/004/2005 V. Mundial        1.100    480.695    95.931   384.764
        Kuito               BIE/007/2005 CARE              1.200    544.332   184.695   359.637
        Andulo              BIE/005/2005 CARE              1.200    658.955   302.474   356.481
        Nharea/...          BIE/006/2005 CARE              1.200    760.393   377.311   383.082
        All the Province    BIE/001/2006 V.Mundial           250    418.110   123.090   295.020
        Kuito               BIE/002/2006 Africare          1.500   620.928   135.481   485.447
        Andulo              BIE/003/2006 FAS                400     188.000    94.000    94.000
        Chitembo            BIE/001/2007 CARE               500     405.239    74.801   330.438
        Nharea              BIE/002/2007 Africare           300     387.266    82.606   304.660
        Camacupa            BIE/003/2007 Africare           300     387.266    82.606   304.660
                                                 Subtotal 11.054  5.855.591 1.574.075 4.281.516
Huambo  Bailundo I          HBO/011/2005 ADRA              1.186    420.548     5.280   415.268
        Catchiungo          HBO/002/2005 OIKOS               750    269.537     7.150   262.387
        Chinjenje           HBO/008/2005 CIC                352     148.333        0    148.333
        Londuimbali         HBO/003/2005 OIKOS               750    269.942    16.150   253.792
        Ukuma               HBO/010/2005 CIC                650     245.451        0    245.451
        Bailundo II         HBO/004/2005 V. Mundial        1.200    789.047   369.067   419.980
        Caála               HBO/005/2005 V. Mundial        1.200    634.557   215.336   419.221
        Longondjo           HBO/009/2005 CIC                860     345.436    25.945   319.491
        T. Tcholohanga      HBO/007/2005 OADECO            1.200    446.160     3.575   442.585
        Calima              HBO/006/2005 OADECO              600    232.174        0    232.174
        Ekunha              HBO/013/2005 IMVF               900   1.300.049   966.196   333.853
        Mungo               HBO/012/2005 OIM               1.600   660.840    162.882   497.958
        Huambo              HBO/016/2006 Handicap Fr.       150     309.069   212.701    96.368
        Huambo              HBO/001/2006 M. V. Queve         316    145.303    35.020   110.283
        Bailundo            HBO/012/2006 DW                1.400   342.108     86.378   255.731
        T. Tcholohanga      HBO/003/2006 DW                 911     222.371    54.678   167.693
        Catchiungo          HBO/017/2006 DW                1.400   342.108     86.378   255.731
        Caála               HBO/018/2006 DW                 507     267.734   187.053    80.681
        Catchiungo          HBO/020/2006 CCF                433    372.649     80.388   292.261
        Katchiungo          HBO/019/2006 OIKOS             1.700    444.033    11.650   432.383
        Bailundo I          HBO/004/2006 ADRA              1.200    474.382     9.346   465.037
        Bailundo II         HBO/005/2006 V. Mundial        1.200    513.876    93.940   419.936
        Caála               HBO/006/2006 V. Mundial        1.000    398.750   101.090   297.660


                                       29

           Londuimbali                HBO/013/2006 OIKOS             826     332.230    10.800   321.430
           T. Tcholohanga             HBO/014/2006 OADECO            900     351.978    23.650   328.328
           Huambo/Comunas             HBO/015/2006 OADECO           1.000    358.612    22.944   335.668
           All the Province           HBO/002/2006 V.Mundial         250     418.110   123.090   295.020
           Chinjenje                  HBO/022/2006 CIC               320      90.480    18.096    72.384
           Ucuma                      HBO/023/2006 CIC               320      90.480    18.096    72.384
           Longonjo                   HBO/021/2006 CIC               522     115.065    23.013    92.052
           Londuimbali;Bailundo       HBO/002/2007 V.Mundial         200     385.616    86.240   299.376
           Mungo                      HBO/020/2008 V.Mundial         200     385.616    86.240   299.376
           Ukuma                      HBO/004/2007 CIC               320     131.736    26.347   105.389
           Longonjo                   HBO/006/2008 CIC               495     174.211    34.842   139.369
           Chinjenje                  HBO/005/2008 CIC               286     135.381    27.076   108.305
           Mungo                      HBO/003/2007 OIM               600     398.223    75.705   322.518
           Ukuma, Longodjo, Chinjenje HBO//2008    CIC               240     324.893    26.738   298.155
                                                          Subtotal 27.944 13.287.089 3.333.080 9.954.009
Huíla      Chipindo                   HLA/002/2005 ACORD            1.200    484.515    35.284   449.232
           Caluquembe                 HLA/003/2005 ADRA             1.000    377.459    14.878   362.581
           Kuvango                    HLA/001/2005 ACORD             575     261.438     8.351   253.087
           Matala                     HLA/007/2005 CARE              750     287.938    11.515   276.423
           Chicomba                   HLA/006/2005 CARE              350     142.608    15.380   127.228
           Caconda                    HLA/005/2005 CARE              800     303.772    10.766   293.006
           Jamba                      HLA/004/2005 CARE              250     116.971    12.606   104.365
           Cacula/Quil.               HLA/008/2005 ACORD             320     143.295    13.091   130.204
           Quipungo                   HLA/001/2007 GTZ               500     416.799   125.501   291.299
           Caluquembe                 HLA/004/2007 Mis.Cat.          444     225.783    48.980   176.803
           Kuvango                    HLA/005/2007 Mis.Cat.          390     261.207    52.660   208.547
           Caconda/Chicomba           HLA/012/2007 CARE              855     375.164    75.416   299.748
           Matala/Jamba               HLA/006/2007 CARE              750     375.710    77.367   298.343
           Lubango                    HLA/003/2007 OIKOs             850     491.366    96.918   394.448
                                                          Subtotal  9.034  4.264.025   598.712 3.665.313
Malange    Malange                    MAL/003/2005 ADRA             1.000    381.007    32.245   348.762
           Caculama                   MAL/001/2005 OIKOS             300     114.247     3.475   110.772
           Kangandala                 MAL/002/2005 OIKOS             300     115.314     4.856   110.458
           Cacuso                     MAL/001/2006 ADMERA             59      19.842     3.510    16.332
           Kalandula                  MAL/001/2008 Missão            370     231.082    45.300   185.782
           Caculama                   MAL//2008    M. Católica       100      55.996    11.200    44.796
                                                          Subtotal  2.129    917.487   100.586   816.901
K.Norte    All the Province           KUN/001/2005 CARITAS           770     187.655     5.348   182.308
           Dondo                      KUN/003/2008 Dom Bosco          631    443.048   143.060   299.988
           Ambaca                     KUN/002/2008 Mis. Cat.          520    440.604   140.760   299.844
           All the Province           KUN/004/2008 CARITAS           160      40.909    11.824    29.085
                                                          Subtotal  2.081  1.112.217   300.991   811.225
Kunene     Toda a Prov.               CNE/001/2005 ACORD            1.367    492.986    30.908   462.078
           Kwanhama, Nam.             CNE/001/2008 AMMIGA            250     260.253    17.011   243.243
                                                          Subtotal  1.617    753.239    47.918   705.321
K. Kubango Menongue                   KKB/001/2005 CARITAS          1260     534.674    34.873   499.801
           PPD's/Prov.                KKB/002/2006 V. Mundial        250     410.740   112.200   298.540
           Mavinga                    KKB/001/2006 V. Mundial        800     383.999    84.150   299.849
           Menongue                   KKB/001/2007 V. Mundial        800     485.509   186.100   299.409


                                                30

            Menongue                KKB/002/2007 V. Mundial          400    358.831    77.242   281.589
            Mavinga/sede            KKB/005/2007 V. Mundial          480    383.744    84.480   299.264
            Mavinga/C.              KKB/006/2007 V. Mundial          450    375.593    76.560   299.033
            Menongue                KKB/004/2007 CARITAS            200      81.962        0     81.962
            Rivungo                 KKB/003/2007 COOPIL              215    251.526    28.416   223.110
            Cuchi                   KKB/001/2008 ADC                 420    285.478    24.905   260.573
                                                         Subtotal  5.275  3.552.056   708.926 2.843.130
K. Sul      Cassongue               KUS/002/2005 V. Mundial        1.250    541.211   104.236   436.975
            Quibala                 KUS/001/2005 ACM               1.000    364.445    15.007   349.438
            Mussende                KUS/003/2005 CARITAS            930     270.869     8.395   262.475
            Libolo                  KUS/004/2005 M.Católica         255     116.563     3.026   113.536
            Cela                    KUS/001/2006 OIKOS             1.329    520.329    23.261   497.069
            Kilenda, Amboim, etc    KUS/003/2006 Africare           700     483.935   209.316   274.619
            Seles e Conda           KUS/002/2006 Africare           700     386.010   153.516   232.494
            Quibala II              KUS/005/2006 ACM               1.000    318.416    26.299   292.117
            Cassongue II            KUS/004/2006 V. Mundial        1.000    393.030    66.330   326.700
            Mussende II             KUS/001/2007 CARITAS            800     260.508     4.841   255.667
            Sumbe,P.Am.             KUS/004/2007 V.Mundial           510    549.780   221.232   328.548
            Gabela                  KUS/005/2007 GTZ                637     674.308   374.349   299.959
            Calulo                  KUS/002/2007 Dom Bosco           593    436.496   136.500   299.996
                                                         Subtotal 10.704  5.315.899 1.346.307 3.969.592
Luanda      All the Province        LAD/001/2006 V.Mundial          250     362.340    82.720   279.620
            Viana                   LAD/002/2006 CORV               180     328.148   130.000   198.148
            Viana                   LAD/003/2006 CCF                512     253.186    87.885   165.301
            Cidade                  LAD/001/2007 ADRA-I              661    499.635   199.973   299.662
            Kikuxi                  LAD/004/2007 GTZ                 80     219.489    80.644   138.845
            All the Province        LAD/003/2007 Dom Bosco            33     48.370    18.381    29.989
                                                         Subtotal  1.716  1.711.168   599.603 1.111.565
Lunda Sul   All the Province        LUS/001/2006 CARITAS           1.450    509.921    38.600   471.321
Lunda Norte Chitato                 LUN/001/2006 Diocese            200      57.000    12.000    45.000
            Xa-Muteba, etc          LUN/003/2006 CARITAS           1.100 493.484       19.900 473.584
            Cambulo                 LUN/002/2006 Ig.Met.Angola      240     123.115     5.311   117.804
            Chitato, Lucapa         LUN/001/2007 ADESPOV            741     294.668    29.529   265.139
                                                         Subtotal  2.281    968.267    66.740   901.527
Uíge        Uíge                    UGE/002/2005 CARITAS            800     291.019     3.000   288.019
            Negage                  UGE/001/2005 CARITAS            200      85.078     1.442    83.636
            Sanza Pombo             UGE/001/2006 ACM                345     109.589     3.060   106.529
            Puri                    UGE/001/2007 Ig.kimb.(IKA)      110      51.175     1.184    49.991
            Bungo                   UGE/002/2008 IERA               171      87.142     2.591    84.551
            Negage                  UGE/002/2007 Paróquia/S.José     120    118.413    24.400    94.013
            Maq.do Zombo            UGE/004/2007 CARITAS            458     271.218    51.800   219.418
            Dange                   UGE/003/2007 MIDA               100      85.004     2.352    82.651
            Kimbele                 UGE/007/2008 MIAZAZA            225     307.633    21.250   286.383
            Ambuila,Bembe e Songo   UGE//2008    IKA                315     171.592    15.190   156.402
            Negage e Uíge           UGE//2008    CARITAS            468     292.279        0    292.279
            Buengas&Milunga         UGE/008/2008 MIAZAZA            260     154.937    26.970   127.967
            Cangola                 UGE/009/2008 C. Vermelha        241     174.405    36.411   137.994
                                                         Subtotal  3.813  2.199.484   189.650 2.009.834
Namibe      Namibe                  Nam/001/2005 CARITAS            140     159.139    62.561    96.578


                                              31

                                                             Subtotal    140     159.139     62.561     96.578
Moxico        Lwena (N/s)               Mox/001/2005 Dom Bosco           568     542.488    443.476     99.012
              Lwena, Leua, ..           Mox/002/2005 Dom Bosco          1.031    574.943     75.911    499.032
              Luau                      Mox/001/2007 OIM                 692     371.385     72.130    299.255
              Alto Zambeze              Mox/002/2007 OIM                 350     330.183     65.793    264.390
              Luena                     Mox//2008    CAPDC               430     181.588     46.000    135.588
              Luena                     Mox/002/2008 C.R.Física          120    192.764      50.300    142.464
              Luena                     Mox/001/2008 Promaica            220     237.659     48.415    189.244
           7                    Subtotal                                3.411  2.431.008    802.024  1.628.985
Zaire         N'Zeto                    ZAI/001/2006 Est. Des. Rural      32   35.256     7.051      28.205
              Kuimba, M.Congo, S        ZAI/001/2007 AFRICARE             163    206.927 126.349        80.578
              Soyo/Kuim.                ZAI//2007    Ig.B.N.S.J.C.       560    294.103   57.866       236.236
              Nzeto                     ZAI//2007    Ig.B.N.S.J.C.       350    220.564   44.506       176.058
              Tomboco                   ZAI//2007    EDR                  60      33.411  6.682         26.729
              Noki                      ZAI//2008    Vida Sagrada        280     290.367  63.660       226.707
              Nzeto                     ZAI//2008    EDR                 100      98.234  19.647        78.587
           7                                                 Subtotal   1.545  1.178.862    325.761    853.101


Total number of projects: 177                                   Total 104.556 53.393.899 11.789.328 41.644.348




                                                   32

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)


An economic and financial analysis was not carried out.




                                         33

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                          Title               Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Maria Margarida Baessa
Mendes                    Executive Assistant                AFMAO

Aniceto Timoteo Bila      Senior Operations Officer           AFTAR
Sean Bradley              Senior Social Development Spec      EASSO
Inguna Dobraja            Advisor to Executive Director       EDS20
Marcelo Jorge Fabre       Senior Social Development Spec      AFTCS
Olivier J. Lambert        Sector Leader                       MIGOP
Elvis Teodoro Langa       E T Consultant                      AFTFM
Elisabeth Maier           Consultant                          COCPO
Esteves Mbangu            E T Consultant                     AFMAO
Maria Isabel Nhassengo-
Massingue                 Procurement Asst.                   AFCS2

Jonathan Nyamukapa        Senior Financial Management Spec.   AFTFM
Pia Peeters               Senior Social Development Spec      AFTCS
Domingas de Fatima Rego
Pegado                    Team Assistant                     AFMAO

Francesco Sarno           Consultant                          HDNSP

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                          8                        81.13
  FY03                                         35                       324.20
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                    0.00
                         Total:                43                       405.33
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                    0.00
  FY03                                                                   11.73
  FY04                                          8                        95.89
  FY05                                         16                        87.09
  FY06                                         20                       113.12
  FY07                                         18                       100.86
  FY08                                         12                        70.08
  FY09                                         17                         0.00
                         Total:                91                       478.77




                                           34

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

a) Stakeholder Surveys8
An end-of-project survey was conducted with the IPs and FAO to evaluate the following
aspects: (i) evaluation of the level of reintegration achieved by the ex-combatants assisted
through the implemented sub-projects; (ii) a critical analyze of the support received from
IRSEM (central, provincial and local levels) to implement the sub-projects; (iii)
identification of the main difficulties and constraints for sub-project implementation; and
(iv) the lessons learnt that could be useful for the implantation of new sub-projects to
support the reintegration of vulnerable groups in Angola.

The key findings on the experience of the IP participation into ADRP included:

 (i)    the program played a critical role in supporting the peace process in Angola and a
        significant part of the ex-combatants are social and economic reintegrated in their
        communities of resettlement.
 (ii)   The level of economic reintegration could be higher if the investment per
        beneficiary was in accordance with the Angolan cost of life and the sub-project
        installments were paid by IRSEM/FMPU in-time.
 (iii) The main difficulties in implementing the sub-projects were related with the long
        time taken by IRSEM to analyze the sub-project proposals, to process the
        payments, mainly the second and the third payments, making difficult to enroll
        and to keep the ex-combatants involved into the sub-projects. Frequently the ex-
        combatants, due to the long time required to implement the sub-project activities
        moved away from the area and new beneficiaries have to be identified and
        approved by IRSEM to fill the vacancies.
 (iv) The FMPU did not understand the PIM procedures and has considered as non-
        eligible expenditures that were made under the sub-project objectives to respond
        to unexpected events or to the increase of prices, which posed additional delays in
        processing the request of payments.
 (v)    To implement the sub-projects respecting the rigorous requirements of financial
        management and procurement it will be necessary to train the IP staff before the
        starting of the subprojects and to provide a permanent support to the sub-project
        management to respect the established procedures.
 (vi) Sometimes the IRSEM provincial staff was not able to provide the appropriate
        answers to the implementation problems because they have problems of
        communication with the central structure and with FMPU.
 (vii) The delays in funding the last sub-projects has created serious problems to the IP
        respecting the intended beneficiaries (already identified during the sub-project
        designing) and their financial management, as a result of the investments made
        after the contracting with IRSEM with their own resources.




8Based on the answers to a questionnaire sent to the IP and FAO project management.


                                              35

 (viii) The implementation of the ADRP sub-projects has allowed reinforcing the
        activities that the IP was implementing in the area, allowing a better use of the
        resources made available by other donors.
 (ix) An important lesson learnt is that the sub-project budget should include a budget
        line to compensate the partner for the depreciation and sometimes destruction of
        the IP assets (mainly vehicles) during the implementation.
 (x)    In the future, a better linkage with government entities, employers and
        development programs should be ensured to facilitate a sustainable reintegration
        of the beneficiaries.
 (xi) ADRP was an important step in moving the IP from emergency to development-
        oriented interventions and it has strengthened their human capacity to implement
        new reintegration projects.

The management of FAO project supports the IP comments, formulating the following
additional findings:

   a) Collaboration with IRSEM was a bit difficult in the beginning where there was an
        important lack of communication; this was solved through the recruitment and out
        posting of FAO staff in the main IRSEM provincial offices.
   b) The implementation of ADRP projects allowed a better integration of FAO with
        Ministry of Agriculture through support to EDA and veterinary services, and
        integration of FAO and IRSEM in the agricultural sector.
   c) The main difficulty was the communication among partners in the beginning of
        the process.
   d) The experience and the results of the ADRP Project were useful in designing
        similar activities in other countries covered by MDRP.


b) Outputs of the interviews conducted by IRSEM local representatives




Social context




                                              36

Economic context




                    37

38

Indicators of effectiveness and efficiency:




                                           39

c) Questionnaires' Results/Graphs - External Evaluation Mission

Methodology of the evaluation




                                         40

41

42

43

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

No stakeholder workshop was carried out.




                                        44

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

     Brief Comments on the Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
                                      PGDR/ADRP
                                 ___________________

                                REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
          Institute for Social and Professional Reintegration of Ex-Combatants


Ms. Maria Correia
Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP)
Program Manager

                          0922/00.01/GAB.DIR.G/IRSEM/2009

SUBJECT: Brief Comments on the Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for
the PGDR/ADRP sent by the MDRP

Dear Madam,

1.      Further to our analysis of the draft Implementation Completion Report on the
Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Program (ADRP/PGDR), and our evaluation
of the same, we have the following comments:

      i.   The report is well written, highlighting various relevant and significant
           aspects of the implementation of the ADRP/PGDR.             We would like to
           recognize the quality of the work.
      ii.  As noted in the report, the ADRP/PGDR, as an emergency program, was
           implemented in a country that was in a post-conflict period and where the
           supply of goods, services and specialized consultants represented a serious
           challenge.   For IRSEM and its Implementing, Institutional and Strategic
           Partners, this was an important opportunity to learn and garner valuable
           lessons and capacity, with a view to maintaining peace and national stability
           through the reintegration of ex-combatants and associated vulnerable groups.
     iii.  With regard to the overall ratings of the Program, in terms of the Recipient
           and the Bank, we are generally in agreement. Given the enormous effort of the
           implementing agency IRSEM and the particular context in which the
           ADRP/PGDR was implemented, however, we consider that the performance
           of the Recipient could be elevated to "satisfactory" for the following reasons:
               a. The Program was implemented for the most part by nationals, with
                   IRSEM fully assuming its role of national execution.
               b. On the other hand, it was the first time that IRSEM assumed complete
                   responsibility for a program of this dimension; as you know, past
                   demobilization and reintegration processes were the control of the
                   United Nations.



                                            45

              c. Contracting     of  an    independent     Financial    Management       and
                 Procurement Unit (FMPU/UGFA) in order to create the capacity
                 required of the Program, was a condition of project effectiveness of the
                 ADRP/PGDR, and due to the procedures themselves was a slow
                 process.
              d. The goal of the FMPU/UGFA was to provide advice and/or technical
                 assistance in financial management and procurement to the Program,
                 as per the World Bank procedures laid out in the Grant Agreement.
              e. The World Bank duly alerted IRSEM to the quality of the services
                 provided by the firm responsible for managing UGFA, for which we
                 were again grateful. This said, fearing a repetition of the long process
                 of contracting a new firm to replace KPMG/Frennan, taking into
                 account the emergency nature of the project and knowing that this was
                 a condition of eligibility, we were left in a very difficult situation; after
                 all, the cancellation of the KPMG/Frennan contract could have led to a
                 stoppage in the project, with corollary implications on peace and
                 stability in the country. At the time, the absence of the Task Manager
                 in Angola was noted.
              f. Finally when we were forced to terminate the contract, which took
                 place in the final phase of the project (April 2008), it was done at a
                 time when little could be done to reduce the damage done.
              g. As to the irregularities identified, these were withheld for submission
                 for payment; moreover in the interests of the project, we are still
                 awaiting a response from the Firm [KPMG/Frennan] given that these
                 processes were under their responsibility.

2.     IRSEM, in its capacity as government Agency and implementing agency of
ADRP/PGDR, greatly appreciates the World Bank's prompt response it demonstrated to
the government's request for support to DDR in Angola and hopes to count on future
support.


IRSEM CENTRAL, LUANDA, 22 JUNE, 2009

General Director

Antonio Francisco de Andrade
General




                                            46

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


n/a




                                    47

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Technical Annex for a proposed grant of SDR 24 million (US$ 33 million equivalent) to
the Republic of Angola for an Angola Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration
Project ­ World Bank, March 7, 2003

Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) ­ World Bank, March 2003

IDA Development Grant Agreement H027- ANG ­ September 2004 and its amendments

European Community Grant TF054552ANG related to IDA Grant Number H027-ANG ­
December 2005

Implementation Completion Memorandum for the Special Project to Support the
Reintegration of Ex-Combatants in the Framework of the Peace Process in Angola
­ World Bank, December 2005

Independent Progress Review of the Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Project
(ADRP) ­ Creative Associates International, January 2006


Annual Independent Evaluation of the Angola Demobilization and Reintegration
Program (ADRP) ­ Creative Associates International, September 2007

Annual Independent Evaluation ADRP ­ Angola Demobilization and Reintegration
Program - Cristina Udelsmann Rodrigues and João Neves, December 2008

Implementation Status Reports and aide memoires throughout the life of the project




                                          48

Annex 10. Approval from RVP on PDO Clarification




                                 49

