CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER. 149 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 29, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated May 29, 1969, between UNITED
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association, dated June 1, 1961 as amended Feb-
ruary 9, 1967, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said Development Credit Regu-
lations No. 1 being hereinafter called the Regulations).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Agree-
ment set forth or referred to, a development credit in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million
dollars ($5,000,000).
S cTIoN 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights of
cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations and in accordance with the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from time
to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by
further agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.


﻿4
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of4he reasonable
cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed
under this Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for expenditures under Cate-
gory II of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(ii) the equivalent of sixty-five per cent (65%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid for expenditures
under Category I of said Schedule 1; provided, how-
ever, that if there shall be an increase in the esti-
mate of such expenditures, the Association may by
notice to the Borrower adjust the above percentage
as required in order that withdrawals of the amount
of the Credit then allocated to such Category and
not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the ex-
penditures remaining to be made under such Cate-
gory; and provided further that if there shall be
a decrease in the estimate of the total cost of the
Project, the Association may by notice to the Bor-
rower further adjust the above percentage in order
that withdrawals from the Credit Account may
approximate seventy per cent (70%) of the total
cost of the Project.
(b) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, no withdrawals shall be
made on account of expenditures made prior to the date
of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (%3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be paid semi-annu-
ally on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing December 15, 1978 and ending
June 15, 2018, e.ch installment to and including the install-
ment payable on June 15, 1988 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per c2nt (11/V o) of
such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purpose of Section 3.02 of the Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTIoN 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement to expenditures on the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECT.ON 3.02. Except as the Association shall otlierwie
agree, (i) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in February 1968, and in accordance
with such other procedures supplementary thereto as are
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement or as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, and
(ii) contracts- for the procurement of such goods shall be
subject to the approval of the Association.
SEcTioN 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in carrying
out the Project.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity
with sound technical, financial and administrative standards
and with due regard to economy, and shall at all times
make or cause to be made available, promptly as needed,
all funds and other resources required for carrying out the
Project and for the effective utilization, staffing, equipping,
operation and maintenance of the educational institutions
included in the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the educational institutions
included in the Project to be so operated as to promote
the educational objectives of the Borrower and to be pro-
vided with qualified teachers and administrators in adequate
numbers.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, furniture
and equipment of the educational institutions inluded in
the Project to be adequately maintained and shall cause all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made. The
Borrower shall establish appropriate administrative and
financial procedures for the purposes of such maintenance.
(d) To assist in the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall establish in the Borrower's Ministry of
National Education a special unit headed by a Project Co-
ordinator, acceptable to the Association, who shall be re-
sponsible for the proper execution and supervision of the
Project. The Borrower shall appoint as members of such
unit (i) an experienced architect, acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, (ii) an accountant and (iii) such supporting techni-
cal, accounting and secretarial staff as may be necessary
for the purposes of such unit.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in
the carrying out of the Project the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed qualified and experienced con-
0


﻿7
sultants acceptable to the Borrower and the Association,
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association.
(f) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause Parts A, B and C of the Project de-
scribed in Schedule 2 to be carried out by contractors
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association employed
under contracts satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
(g) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association for its approval promptly upon their prepara-
tion the plans, specifications, contracts and work schedules
for the construction included in the Project and the master
lists of instructional equipment and furniture included
therein, and any subsequent material modifications thereof,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take appropriate
steps to develop agricultural, commercial and technical
subjects in its teacher training institutions and secondary
schools.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing
paragraph (a), the Borrower shall (i) employ ten qualified
specialists for such periods as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association to assist the Borrower in
establishing adequate facilities for training teachers in the
above mentioned subjects and in developing agricultural,
commercial and technical education in the Borrower's sec-
ondary schools, and (ii) provide ten fellowships for the
purpose of training Tanzaniais overseas as specialists in
the said subjects. The duties, responsibilities and qualifi-
cations of the specialists referred to in sub-paragraph (i)
above shall be satisfactory to the Association. The Bor-
rower shall promptly inform the Association of the appoint-
ment of such specialists and the qualifications of the spe-
cialists so appointed.


﻿8
(c) The Borrower shall promptly take all requisite steps
for the acquisition and retention by the Borrower of all
such lands, interests in land and properties and all rights,
powers and privileges as may be necessary or proper for
the construction and operation of the educational institu-
tions included in the Project to ensure that such lands are
available immediately as needed for the purposes of said
construction.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall strengthen the staff
of the Inspectorate in the Borrower's Ministry of National
Education by appointing thereto an adequate number of
specialists in agricultural, commercial and technical educa-
tion.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained such records as shall be adequate to iden-
tify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition,
in respect of the Project, of the ministries or departments
of the Borrower responsible for the construction, operation
and maintenance of the Project or any part thereof; (ii)
enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the operation thereof, the goods and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Project, the goods and the operation of the edu-
cational system of the Borrower, the programs ior educa-
tional development in its territories and the operation and
financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the min-
istries or departments of the Borrower responsible for the
construction, operation and maintenance of the Project or
any part thereof.


﻿9
SECTION 4.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully with each other to assure that the
purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end,
each of them shall furnish to the other all such information
as cither shall reasonably request with regard to the gen-
eral status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to finan-
cial and economic conditions in the territories of the Bor-
rower and the international balance of payments position
of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplislunent of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SEcTIoN 4.00, The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.07. This Agreement shall be free from any
taxes tha.t shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers or make other provisions


﻿10
satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
practice.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower undertakes to insure the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or
(ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, then at any sub-
sequent time during the continuance thereof, the Associa-
tion, at its option, may declare the principal of the Credit
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately, and
upon any such declaration such principal shall become due
and payable immediately, anything in this Development
Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
SECTION 6.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1973 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.


﻿*                              11
SECTION 6.02. The date of July 31, 1969 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 8.04 of the Regulations.
SECTION 6.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Treasury
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SEcTIo 6.04. The Minister of the Borrower for the time
being responsible for finance is designated for the purposes
of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESs WB REOP, the parties hereto, acting through
their re'resentatives thereunto duly autl ,orized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective


﻿12
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/- J. M. YINZA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice Prcsident


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                                in Dollar Equivalent
I. Civil works, professional fees and
administration                         3,420,000
II. Furniture and instructional equipment   810,000
III. Unallocated                             770,000
5,000,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
Category I or Category II shall decrease, the amount then
allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category
will be reallocated by the Association to Category III.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
Category I or Category II shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase, to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit in the case of Category II, and
in the case of Category I, an amount equal to 657 of such
increase, will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from Category III, sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association in respect of the cost of the
items in the other Category.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
A. The construction and equipment of:
(i) one new secondary school;
(ii) extensions to twenty-four secondary schools;
(iii) extensions to two primary teacher training col-
leges; and
(iv) extensions to one secondary teacher training col-
lege.
B. The construction of 63 staff houses at 14 secondary
schools and 2 primary teacher training colleges.
C. The remodelling of 9 staff houses at 2 secondary schools.
D. Consulting services for the above works.
The specific educational institutions to be included in
the Project, the specific locations thereof, enrollment levels
thereat and the approximate areas of construction shall be
those shown in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, subject to
modification by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1973.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
List of Educational Institutions  ,
1. New Secondary School, 13 Staff Houses and 576 stu-
dent boarding places.
Approx.
Student  Total Area
Staff   New Total  Boarding  to be
Name of School   Houses   Enrollment  Places  Constructed
(FT2)
Tarime             13       600       576     88,100
2. Additions to 24 Secondary Schools, including 38 Staff
Houses and remodelling 9 Staff Houses, and 2,31.8 boarding
places (612 new and 1706 by remodelling).
Ilboru             -        540        -       5,600
St. Andrews        -        540        -       3,400
St. Francis        -        540       5402     3,900
Mpwapwa            -        280        -      14,200
Msalato             3       540       324     30,000
Tosamaganga         3       540        -      11,100
Livingstone         1       420        -      10,300
Assumpta            3       540       2523    15,000
Lyainungu           1       420       1403     6,100
Moshi Tech.        -        880        -       6,000
Umbwe               3       400       1202    15,800
Musoma Alliance     1       540       1002    23,000
Iyunga             -        560        -       3,500
Rungwe             -        280        -       7,200
Marian              7       540       2544    22,800
Mzumbe             -        680        -       4,900
St. Joseph's        1       280        -       7,100
Bwiru               31      400       1202    13,800
Songea              61      540        -       6,200
Tabora              3       540        -       5,100
Galanos            -        280        -       2,200
Tanga               7       680        -      14,800
Ihungo              1       540       1803     9,200
Rugambwa            4       420       288     12,800
I remodelling
2 remodelling and furniture
3 furniture only
4 remodelling for 60 and furniture only for 194 places


﻿16
3. Additions to 2 Primary Teacher Training Colleges,
12 Staff Houses and 960 student boarding places.
Approx.
Student  Total Area
Staff   New Total  Boarding   to be
Name of School    Houses   Enrollment  Places  Constructed
(FT2)
Korogwe              7       480        4805    63,100
Katoke               5       480        4806    56,600
4. Additions to one Secondary Teacher Training College
and 80 new boarding places.
Dar es Salaam
Teacher Training    -                    80    .12,300
College
5 120 places by remodelling
8 170 places by remodelling


﻿17
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Pursuant to Section 3.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement, international competitive bidding will be used
to carry out the Project, and the procedures set forth in
the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, dated February 1968, shall be applied by
the Borrower together with the following supplementary
provisions:
1. Contracts for Civil Works
(a) The several civil works included in the Project
shall be grouped to form one or more economical bid
packages, whenever practicable.
(b) Prior to inviting bids the Borrower shall:
(i) Submit to the Association for approval lists
containing the types and groups of works pro-
posed to be let and the estimated costs thereobf,
together with a description of the method to. be
used for obtaining bids in respect of each one.
(ii) Upon obtaining such approval, the Borrower
shall submit for the approval of the Association
the draft bidding documents, the draft contracts,
the list of firms that the Borrower proposes to
invite to bid, if any, and the proposed interna-
tional advertising coverage.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall send to the Association a summary
thereof, the analysis of the bids and a brief justifica-
tion of the Borrower's decision on the award; pro-
vided, however, that in the case of any contract, or a
group of contracts covered by a single award, involv-
ing an amount of US$100,000 equivalent or more, the
Borrower shall request the Association's approval be-
fore making the award.
(d) As soon as a contract has been awarded, the Bor-
rower shall send a certified copy thereof to the Asso-


﻿18
ciation promptly after execution of such contract and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal in respect ofsuch contract.
(e) The Borrower shall request the Association's ap-
proval for any proposed change in a contract involving
a price increase of 5 per cent, or more than US$10,000
equivalent, whichever is less.
2. Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
(a) Lists for all items of equipment and furniture re-
quired for the Project shall be prepared, showing the
specifications and estimated unit and total price of
each item. Items will be grouped so as to permit bulk
procurement as shall be consistent with sound tech-
nical and proourement practices.
(b) Prior to inviting bids the Borrower shall:
(i) Submit to the Association for its approval the
lists mentioned in paragraph 2 (a) above, to-
gether with a description of the method to be
used for obtaining bids in respect of each one.
(ii) Submit for the Association's approval the
proposed standard bid, tender and contract docu-
ments.
(c) In the case of a contract involving an amount of
US$25,000 equivalent or more, the Borrower shall
send to the Association, after the bids have been evalu-
ated and awarded (provided the bid amount was within
original estimates) a summary and analysiv thereof,
and a brief justification of the decision on the award-
ing of the contract.
(d) As soon as a contract has been awarded, the Bor-
rower shall send a certified copy thereof to the Asso-
ciation, promptly after the execution of such contract
and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal in respect of such
contract.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 5
Employment of Specialists
It is hereby agreed that the specialists to be employed
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of the De-
velopment Credit Agreement shall be employed for the
periods specified below and shall have the following quali-
fications and responsibilities:
A. One coordinator in agriculture to be employed in July
1969 for four years:
(i) Qualifications and Experience
As a minimum, a degree in agriculture from a recog-
nized university, followed by at least five years experi-
ence in the field of agricultural education including at
least two years in educational administration.
(ii) Duties and Responsibilities
He will advise and assist the Ministry of National
Education on all agricultural education matters par-
ticularly agricultural curriculum development for
teacher training colleges and secondary schools; co-
ordinate the teacher training and secondary school agri-
cultural education programs; and advise and assist in
the design of building facilities and preparation of lists
of equipment and teaching materials.
B. One teacher training expert in agriculture to be em-
ployed in July 1969 for four years:
(i) Qualifications and Experience
As a minimum, a degree in agriculture from a recog-
nized university, followed by at least five years experi-
ence in agriculture teaching including at least two years
as an agricultural teacher trainer.
(ii) Duties and Responsibilities
He will assist in the training of agriculture teachers
at a suitable agricultural training institution. He will


﻿20
also assist in curriculum and syllabus development for
agricultural teacher training courses and develop,teach-
ing materials and resources.
0. Four school experts in agriculture, two to be employed
in July 1969 for three years, and the other two to be
employed in March 1970 for three years:
(i) Qualifications and Experience
As a minimum, a degree in agriculture from a recog-
nized university plus at least four years experience in
teaching agriculture at the secondary school level.
(ii) Duties and Responsibilities
They will teach agricultural subjects at secondary
school level to include classroom and field work, and
assist in the development of curricula and syllabuses,
teaching plans and materials.
D. Two teacher training experts in technical subjects to
be employed in March 1970 for three years:
(i) Qualifications and Experience
As a minimum, a degree in industrial arts from a
recognized university or an appropriate Final City and
Guilds of London Institute qualification plus a mini-
mum of two years industrial experience and three years
technical teaching.
(ii) Duties and Responsibilities
They will develop courses of training in industrial
subjects at secondary school level for technical teacher
trainees. This will include the preparation of curricula
and syllabuses, teaching plans, development of mate-
rials, workshop layout and equipment lists. They will
also participate in the teaching of technical teacher
trainees at the Dar es Salaam Teacher Training College.


﻿21
E. Two teacher training experts in commercial subjects
to be employed in July 1969 for three years:
(i) Qualifications and Experience
As a minimum, a degree in office arts from a recog-
nized university or its equivalent plus a minimum of
two years commercial experience and two years com-
mercial teaching.
(ii) Duties and Responsibilities
They will develop courses of training in commercial
subjects at secondary school level for teachers of these
subjects. This will include the preparation of curricula
and syllabuses, teaching plans, development of mate-
rials, workshop layout and equipment lists. They will
also participate in the teaching of commercial teacher
trainees at the Dar es Salaam Teacher Training College.
All specialists should be fluent in the English language
and all will be responsible for training their Tanzanian
counterparts.


