FILE Copy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 312a-SYR
APPRAISAL OF
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
February 28, 1974
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Water Resources Development Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRINCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Syrian Pound (LS)
US$1.00       = LS 3.85
us$o. 260     = LS 1.000
us$260,000    = IS 1 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 millimeter (mm)                      =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                            = 3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)                    = 10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)                     = 1.31 cubic yards
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)           =  810.7 acre feet
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)      = 35.35 cubic feet per second
1 liter per second (1/sec)             =  0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilometer (km)                       =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)               =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                         =  2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                        =  2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)                     =  2,205 pounds
1 kilowatt (kW)                        = 1,000 watts
1 megawatt (MW)                        = 1,000 kilowatts
ABBREVIATIONS
GADEB = General Administration for the Development of the Euphrates Basin
GOED   = General Organization for the Euphrates Dam
CMO    = Cotton Marketing Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31






TABLE OF CONTENTS  - Continued                                                             Page No.
C.    Water Demand,  Supply  and Quality                     ...... ..          12
D.    Construction  Schedule  and Status  of
Engineering  .. .............  . * * ............                     13
Construction  Schedule  ................             ...          13
Status of Engineering              ......        ......           13
E.    Cost Estimates  ........ * . ....  *.....                                 13
F.    Financial  Plan  . ............. "    *.. . .......                       14
G.    Procurement,  Disbursement,  and Audit                                    15
Procurement    .          .... *....*..........                   15
Disbursement  ............................                        16
Auditing  of Accounts                    ........                 16
V.    ORGANIZATION  AND MANAGENENT  *****,******.....                   .....          16
The Project Entity  .....   * .   .........................  .           16
Extension  ...................               .................           17
Training  .............         ............ *........... .........      17
Settlenent  .................................................            18
Operation  and Maintenance  ..                  ...............          18
C,redit ......................................................           19
Recovery of Project  Costs   ..... O..*                .........         19
VI.    AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION,  MARKET
PROSPECTS, PRICES  AND FARM  INCOMES  ................                          20
VII.    BENEFITS  AND JUSTIFICATION  ........                  ........  ........         22
Environment and Health  .....               ..................           23
VIII.    AGREEMENTS  REACHIED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ............                            23
0



0
ANNEXES
1.  Table 1 - National Production of Selected Crops
Table 2 - National Livestock Population, 1960-71
2.  Agrarian Reform
3.  The Euphrates River
4.  Development of the Euphrates Basin in Syria
5.  Climatic Data - Raqqa - Mean Monthly Records
6.  Soils
7.  Agricultural Development
8.  Agricultural Experiment Stations
9.  Agricultural Extension and Education
10.  Agricultural Credit
11.  Project Description
12.  Consultants
13.  Bilharzia and Malaria
14.  Water Demand, Supply and Quality
15. Construction Schedule (Chart 7941 (2R))
16.  Settlement
17.  Cost Estimates
18.  Estimated Investment Schedule
19.  Equipment to be Procured under the Project
20.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
-321. Project Organization
22.  Cash Flow of Investment Recovery
23.  Market Prospects and Prices
24.  Farm Budgets
25.  Economic Analysis
26.  Annual Labor Requirements
MAP
10973     - Balikh Irrigation Project - General Location
10560R1   - Balikh Irrigation Project
.






SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Balikh Irrigation Project
Preface
In formulating this proposal it has not been possible to take full
account of the consequences of recent increases in petroleum prices. Cost
estimates have been adjusted to take account of the most recent estimates
available of the effects on project cost of petroleum price increases (para.
4.18), but commodity price projections used are those obtaining at the time
of preparation of the report (para. 6.04). Available information indicates
that the proposed Loan/Credit remains fully justified.
The hostilities of October 1973 have not changed the sectoral
priority of the proposed project.
0






SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a 41,000-ha irrigation and rural development
project in the basin of the Balikh River, a tributary of the Euphrates River
in northern Syria. The project would provide for irrigation and drainage
facilities; rural infrastructure including feeder roads, village water sup-
plies, and community buildings; equipment and machinery for operation, main-
tenance, and mechanized farming; consultant services; and materials for dis-
ease control (mainly bilharzia). An important feature of the project is that
it would provide for the settlement of about 7,500 farm families, including
about 3,000 of the 8,600 that will need to be resettled as a result of the
filling of the new reservoir under construction on the Euphrates at Thawra
(Lake Assad), and for whom no other provision for resettlement has been made.
The project would also provide for studies of the requirements for the reha-
bilitation of some 200,000 ha of existing irrigation in the Lower Euphrates
Valley and for the feasibility study and detailed design of a first stage
55,000 ha rehabilitation project in the valley.
*Ei    ii.        The agricultural sector is of major importance in Syria accounting
for 23% of GDP and providing employment to 65% of the labor force. Exports
of agricultural products constitute about two-thirds of total export earnings.
Agricultural production in the predominantly semi-arid to arid climate of
Syria fluctuates widely according to weather conditions unless crops are ir-
rigated. Government strategy for agricultural development is to stabilize
agricultural production by increasing the area under irrigation and inten-
sifying production on these lands. Development of the waters of the Euphrates
Basin, which represent as much as 88% of the water resources of the country,
is, therefore, seen as a factor of major importance.
iii.      Estimated total project cost, including some limited investments
pertaining to existing and future developments is US$170.4 million equiva-
lent with a foreign exchange component of US$73 million or 43%. Financing
of 100% of the foreign exchange is proposed to be covered by an IBRD loan of
US$63 million, and an IDA credit of US$10 million. Major civil works costing
about U1S$149 million would be tendered in three separate contracts to be
awarded following international competitive bidding. Equipment and machin-
ery would also be procured after international competitive bidding, except
for purchases not exceeding US$5,000 equivalent when procurement will be in
accordance witk the normal procedures of the Project Authority, provided such
contracts do not exceed an aggregate of US$100,000. Construction contracts
for various administrative and community buildings and water supplies would
be let in small contracts to local contractors after local competitive bid-
ding. International competitive bidding would not be appropriate for there
*      smaller works because they are widely scattered and their construction would
be spread over long periods.



- ii - 
iv.       The General Administration for the Development of the Euphrates
Basin (GADEB), an organization within the Ministry of the Euphrates Dam,
would be the executing agency for the project, assisted by design consultants,
and general consultants provided by the project.
v.        Water would be supplied to the project from the Euphrates River,
which flows through the territories of Turkey, Syria and Iraq. The implica-
tions of the use by the proposed project of waters from an international river
has been carefully considered by the Bank's staff. The staff is satisfied
that:  (a) the order of magnitude of additional diversion by Syria due to the
project, which is partly offset by the reduction in water use caused by the
cessation of irrigation by farmers in the Euphrates Dam reservoir area, is so
marginal that it cannot be considered harmful to the present or long-term
interests of any of the riparians and b) when account is taken of the present
level of diversion from the Euphrates River by Syria, the additional diversion
attributable to the project would be well within the allotment to Syria under
any equitable apportionment of the Euphrates waters between the three ripar-
ian countries.
vi.       At full development in 1986, the annual incremental value of pro-
duction would be about US$15 million. The economic rate of return would be
about 11%. The project would provide near full farm employment opportunities
to about 7,500 families.  Net farm income after payment of project charges
(35% of net farm income) would range between LS 5,250 and 5,800 (US$1,360-
1,506) at full development.
vii.      With the assurances obtained from the Government, the project is
suitable for Bank Group financing. The Borrower would be the Government of
the Syrian Arab Republic. A US$63 million Bank loan for a period of 30 years
with a 8-year grace period, and a US$10 million IDA credit on usual terms are
recommended.



0
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Syrian Arab Republic has requested Bank Group
assistance in financing the 41,000 ha Balikh Irrigation Project, in the basin
of the Balikh River, a tributary of the Euphrates River. This would be the
first support by the Bank Group in Syria's agricultural sector.
1.02      Development in the Euphrates Basin in Syria by the public sector
began in 1968 with construction of a dam and power plant on the Euphrates
River at Thawra. The dam was closed in July 1973 and filling of the reservoir
started at the end of 1973. About 11,400 families will be displaced from
lands in the reservoir area and 8,600 of these will be resettled on farms
downstream in the Balikh River Basin. A 19,600 ha pilot irrigation project
in the Balikh Basin, in part supported by UNDP, is nearing completion and will
provide for the resettlement of about 5,600 of these families. Because of
the closure of the Euphrates Dam there is an urgent need for the project which
will provide for the resettlement of the remaining 3,000 families. The pro-
posed project would cater for this need and improve agriculture and general
living conditions for the 4,000 to 5,000 farm families presently in the project
area.
1.03      This report is based on technical feasibility studies prepared by
Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (UK), and takes into account various studies
by other consultants, FAO and UNDP, but particularly an updating feasibility
report prepared in January 1973 by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme in col-
laboration with the General Administration for Development of the Euphrates
Basin (GADEB), the Government agency responsible for the project. A special-
ist technical mission in March-April 1973 consisting of Messrs. Ellsperman and
Rippon (Bank Consultants) reviewed the engineering aspects of the project,
particularly the feasibility of canal construction in the gypsiferous soils
of the project area. The project was appraised in May 1973 by Messrs. P.
Peperzak, R. O'Sullivan, T.H. Yoon (Bank/IDA) and J.W. Bailey and L.M. Wilcox
(consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
2.01      Cultivated land in Syria is estimated at 6 million ha of which
about 500,000 ha are irrigated. Production from rainfed lands varies widely
from year to year because of fluctuations in annual rainfall.  The major crops



-2-
are cereals and cotton and secondary crops include olives, fruits and vege-
tables. Livestock (mostly sheep) is an important subsector. Some 40% of the
irrigated land in the country, about 200,000 ha, is in the Euphrates River
Basin which provides some 88% of the country's water resources.
2.02      Although agriculture accounts for only 23% of GDP, the economy is
heavily dependent on the sector. In recent years it has provided roughly
two-thirds of exports and nearly two-thirds of direct employment. However,
the long-term growth rate of agricultural production, about 2.4% per year,
has not kept pace with overall economic growth, nor with the high population
increase. In the past decade the agricultural population in Syria has been
rapidly growing in terms of both absolute number and percentage of total pop-
ulation. 1/ Because the agricultural sector has been burdened with most of
the increase in active population, disguised unemployment and underemployment
in this sector is considered serious. Growth was especially slow during 1966-
70, mainly due to a high incidence of drought years but other factors included
continued difficulties in implementing land reform, 2/ inadequate supporting
services, import restrictions on agricultural inputs, consumer bias in food
price policies and a low level of realized agricultural investment. In 1971
and 1972 agricultural production rose sharply, largely owing to exceptionally
good weather conditions. Statistics on major agricultural output and live-
stock population are presented in Annex 1.
2.03      Agricultural exports accounted for 64% of total export earnings
during 1966-70 while foodstuffs accounted for 40% of imports.  Agricultural
exports are relatively stable being largely composed of cotton, which is ir-
rigated, whereas the volume and composition of agricultural imports are largely
determined by weather conditions. In drought years cereals and livestock must
be imported while in years with favorable rainfall these commodities are
exported. In four out of the above five years the agricultural trade balance
was positive.
2.04      The Government's development strategy for agriculture is to con-
centrate on increasing and stabilizing agricultural production by expanding
the irrigated area and intensifying production on existing irrigated land to
reduce the uncertainties associated with a dependence on rainfed agriculture.
Since most of the water resources outside the Euphrates River Basin are al-
ready developed for agriculture, expansion of irrigation must mainly take
place in the Euphrates Basin. In the Third Development Plan (1971-75) high
priority is given to development of irrigation in the Balikh Basin because
of the urgent need to provide for the resettlement of farmers from the
Euphrates Dam reservoir area (para 1.02).  The plan also provides for studies
1/   Official statistics showed that between 1961-1969 the percentage of the
agricultural labor force in the economy expanded from 52% to 67% with
an increase of absolute number from 622,000 to 1,322,000.
2/   Land redistribution was completed in 1969 (Annex 2).



-3 -
of drainage problems in existing irrigated lands with a view to making pos-
sible increased production from these lands by providing drainage facilities,
since poor drainage is a major constraint on production, particularly for
some of the existing irrigation in the Euphrates Valley.
B. Development in the Euphrates Basin
2.05      The Euphrates River (Annex 3), about 3,000 km long, flows through
the territories of three countries (Turkey, Syria, and Iraq); it has a mean
annual flow of about 32 billion m3. The bulk of the river flow is contributed
by run-off from the Turkish mountains, where annual precipitation averages
about 625 mm. In Syria two tributaries, the Balikh and Khabour Rivers, join
the Euphrates. About 50% of the mean annual flow of the river is diverted
for irrigation by Turkey, Syria, and Iraq. Two barrages and one off-river
storage reservoir already exist on the river in Iraq, and two dams across the
river are under construction--the Keban Dam in Turkey and the Euphrates Dam
at Thawra in Syria. Both dams are planned to be completed by 1975. Keban
Dam will be used exclusively for hydropower generation, while the Euphrates
Dam in Syria will provide both power and irrigation.
2.06      In the three riparian countries combined, the water requirements
for the development of all the lands suitable for irrigated agriculture
in the Euphrates Basin exceeds the availability of water supplies in the
Basin. Since 1962 the three countries have been discussing the sharing and
use of the Euphrates waters in further developments. Meetings are continuing
but it will take some time before agreement is reached. Safeguarding exist-
ing consumptive uses in the three countries during the filling periods of the
Keban reservoir and the Euphrates Darn reservoir (Lake Assad) is of immediate
importance, since the filling of both reservoirs started in November 1973.
In recent months progress has been made in negotiations towards an agreement
on filling schedules. Syria and Iraq agreed on a schedule of releases from
the Euphrates Dam in Syria covering the critical low flow period November 1973
to February 1974 and further discussions are planned between the riparians on
required releases during subsequent periods. The Syrian Government has in-
formed the Bank Group in writing that it will continue its efforts to come to
an agreement on reservoir releases with the other two riparians, and will in
any event make every effort to release from the Euphrates Dam sufficient
quantities of water to satisfy Iraq's reasonable needs from the river.
2.07      The Euphrates Dam, under construction in Syria (Annex 4), is an
earthfill dam, 4,500 m long and 60 m high. Lake Assad will have a live storage
capacity of 7.4 billion m3.  Total installed power capacity by 1975 would be
300 MW, and the possibility exists for the installation of two additional 100
MW units. The flow regulation provided by the dam will generally be benefi-
cial to agriculture in both Syria and Iraq since present damaging flood flows
will be reduced and present critical low flows increased. About 41,300 ha of
presently unirrigated land could be served by gravity flows from Lake Assad.
Other lands in the vicinity of Lake Assad can be served by pumping and, if
developed for agriculture, would benefit from the raised level of the water
ir. the Lake.



- 4 -                                                 9
2.08      For development of irrigation in the Euphrates Basin, priority is
given by the Government to development in the Balikh Basin region where good
agricultural soils can be commanded by gravity flow from Lake Assad or by
relatively low pump lifts. Construction of a pilot irrigation project, cover-
ing about 19,600 ha net, has been underway since 1970 and will be completed
by 1974. UNDP support has been provided in the form of a Pilot Irrigation
Project within one of the pilot sub-areas.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
3.01      The project is located in northern Syria in the basin of the Balikh
River, a tributary of the Euphrates. The Balikh joins the Euphrates from the
north near the town of Raqqa (Map IBRD 10560R1). The project area lies on both
sides of the Balikh River on the plateau adjacent to the Euphrates River Val-
ley in the Governorate of Raqqa.
Climate
3.02      The project area has an arid climate with an average annual rain-
fall of about 200 mm.  Rainfall usually occurs from October through MIay, while
there is virtually no precipitation from June through September.  July and
August are the hottest and driest months with mean maximum temperatures of
over 380C while the coldest weather is in January with a mean minimum of
2.30C. Wind speeds are highest in the summer and may reach an average of
5.2 m/sec in July, causing frequent dust storms when the soil surface is
dry. Frosts occur occasionally-in the winter, making it impossible to grow
citrus and other frost-sensitive crops. The climatic conditions, in general,
are favorable for intensive irrigated agricultural development. Detailed
climatic data are presented in Annex 5.
Geology
3.03      The Balikh Basin was formed by tectonic movement and sedimentation
occurring through the tertiary period and into the quaternary. The sedimen-
tary rocks form an interbedded sequence of marls, gypsum, clays, silty
sandstones and limestones. Marl and gypsum are the predominant rock types
and are generally deeply weathered. Aeolian activity during the quaternary
period has resulted in widespread deposition of powder gypsum, occurring
over large parts of the area either on the surface or covered by shallow
soil layers. Volcanic activitv during the upper quaternary period left two
extinct volcanoes in the eastern part of the area, the Mlankhar Charbi and the
Mankhar Sharqi. An area of about 7,000 ha around these volcanoes consists
of soils of typical volcanic origin, being deposits of clays, sands and gravel
interspersed with volcanic ash and lapilli.



*                                             - 5-
Soils
3.04      The soils on which irrigation is to be developed in the project
area are generally well suited for irrigation being deep, well-drained,
moderately permeable and with adequate moisture-holding capacity. Many of
the soils overlay gypsum or gravel at variable depths. The soils closer to
the Balikh River have minor limitations in soil depth and internal drainage,
but they are suited for irrigation of most crops.  Some 4,000 ha occurring
in scattered areas with a gravelly consistence or gypsiferous subsoils have
been included in the project because local experimental results and expe-
rience in other countries indicate that there is no serious limitation to
crop growth as long as the gypsum content is less than 50% and the soil depth
above the gypsiferous layers is at least 30-40 cm. Some 6,000 ha of volcanic
soils also included in the project are presently high in salinity and exchange-
able sodium, but are considered to be easily reclamable by simple leaching
because of their rapid infiltration rate (Annex 6).
Topography and Drainage
3*05      Topography of the project area is in general very regular, both in
the valley of the Balikh River and on the upland terraces. Only the transi-
tion from the valley to the higher elevations is irregular, exhibiting a
strip of several kilometers in width with heavily eroded escarpments.  As
the soils of the terrace lands are mainly of medium texture with favorable
infiltration rates, surface drainage throughout most of the project area is
quite satisfactory. The volcanic soils area also has a very smooth topography
with just enough slope to provide for sufficient external drainage.
Water Resources
3.06      A minor amount of surface water exists in the Balikh Basin and a
limited quantity of groundwater of suitable quality for irrigation is found
in the same general area near Tel es Samen (northern tip of project area).
Both sources of water are fully utilized by existing cooperative farms. The
only major source of water available for development of the project area is
the Euphrates River, which has a mean annual measured flow volume of about
26 billion m3 at Thawra. Quality of the Euphrates River water is satisfac-
tory for irrigation.
Transportation and Communications
3.07      Raqqa, the administrative center of the project area, is located
55 km east of Thawra and 1PO km east of Aleppo.  Good transport facilities
exist between these cities by means of a modern highway and a railroad
line. Aleppo is well connected with the capital, Damascuis, and the Syrian
ports of the Mediterranean by road, rail and air.
0



-6-
Population and Land Tenure
3.08      About 25 villages with an estimated population of about 30,000, or
4,000-5,000 families, are situated in the project area. Raqqa, lying im-
mediately adjacent but not within the project area, has an estimated popu-
lation of 125,000. About 90% of the land in the project area is Government
owned and this land is leased annually to local farmers for rainfed cultiva-
tion at a nominal rental. The balance of the land (about 4,000 ha) is either
privately owned under titles of long standing, or farmed by cooperatives
formed by Government to take over previous large holdings under the Agrarian
Reform Act of 1958 (Annex 2). The cooperative holdings (about 2,600 ha) are
concentrated in the Balikh Valley, the only part of the project area where
some irrigated farming is practiced at present.
Present Agricultural Production and Existing Development
3.09      Detailed records of existing land use are not available, but it is
estimated that about 20,000 ha in the project area are planted with rainfed
wheat and barley annually (Annex 7). In years of adequate rainfall, yields
of 800 kg of wheat and 1,200 kg of barley per ha may be obtained. When rain-
fall is inadequate for grain production, the crop is grazed. On average a
grain crop is harvested every other year.  Nost of the cultivation is carried
out on a sharecropping basis between the lessees of the land and tractor
owners or other enterpreneurs who normally supply the seed and may carry
out some of the cultivation and harvesting operations by machine. No fer-
tilizers or other inputs are used on rainfed lands.
3.10      Irrigated farming is confined to about 2,800 ha of lands adjacent
to the Balikh River by gravity or by pumping from wells. Cotton is grown
when sufficient water is available in the summer and wheat with limited sup-
plementary irrigation during the sDring months. Fertilizer is used on ir-
rigated land, particularly for cotton. Yields of irrigated cotton and wheat
are, on the average, 1,500 kg of seed cotton and 1,800 kg of grain per ha,
respectively.
Livestock
3.11      There are no intensive livestock svstems in the area but it is es-
timated that about 22,000 breeding ewes plus followers are kept in the proj-
ect area.  Feeding of livestock is largely by cotton and wheat stubbles and
through grazing of rangelands in and near the project area. Small supple-
mentary quantities of grain may be given as feed in the winter. In drought
years mortality is high and flocks migrate to rangelands near the Turkish
border. On the average, the offtake from a typical sheep flock of 100 breed-
ing ewes is estimated at 10 cull ewes weighing 28 kg (liveweight) each, 23
lambs weighing 26 kg each, 4,200 kg of milk and 205 kg of raw wool. Livestock
health is, in general, poor.



-7-
3.12      Cattle-raising for milk production is actively promoted by the
Government. As a start, GADEB has set up a cattle experiment station near
Raqqa, adjacent to the project area. A small number of cattle is kept as
draft animals by the farmers in the project area.
Agricultural Research
3.13      Four agricultural research stations are active in the vicinity of
the project area, run by the Research Department of the Agriculture Sector
of CADEB. Three are multipurpose stations and one specializes in problems
connected with the reclamation of saline soils. Three more stations are
being set up by GADEB near the project area to study the utilization of
gysiferous soils, the application of experimental results on a field scale,
and livestock development, respectively. In addition, FAO/ UNDP operates a
multipurpose station in the Wadi el Fayd section of the pilot area. The work
programs of all research stations in the area are properly geared to the needs
of land development in the project area (Annex 8).
Agricultural Extension
3.14      The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for extension services
throughout the country and maintains a field office of the Directorate of
Agriculture in Raqqa.  The main tasks of the technical staff of the Direc-
torate include the supervision of cooperatives; supervision of credit; re-
search at the agricultural experimental station in Raqqa; and provision of
agriculture extension services. At present, extension services are restricted
to the provision of limited technical assistance to irrigated cotton growers
in the Euphrates and Balikh Valleys by temporary units consisting of one en-
gineer and one supervisor (Annex 9).
Agricultural Credit
3.15      The Agricultural Bank is responsible for extending agricultural
credit. The bank has a branch in Raqqa, one of 35 such branches in Syria,
covering the project area and much of the Raqqa Governorate. In recent
years this branch has extended over 1,000 loans annually, to individual
farmers and cooperatives. Its total annual business amounts to LS 17-18
million. Almost all of these loans have been short-term and mostly for
cotton (about 95%). As in other areas in Syria, short-term credit demand
in this area is well covered, but there is a shortage of credit for medium-
and long-term loans. In 1971, medium- and long-term loans amounted to only
LS 0.8 million (mainly for pumps and machinery) out of LS 17.6 million.
Credit is extended mostly in cash (90%) and partly in kind. Eertilizers,
seeds, and chemicals supplied to the farmers are usually extended through
the Agricultural Bank. Recovery rates are good for cotton loans (90-95%)
but poor for rainfed farming, particularly in dry years.
3.16      Interest rates are 4% for cooperatives and 5.5% for individual
farmers for loans up to LS 50,000; and 7.5% for amounts over LS 50,000.
Overdues carry an annual rate of 9% calculated on the overdue period. These
rates are comparable to interest rates in other sectors, which are generally
low.



-8-
Marketing
3.17      Marketing of the major crops, cotton, wheat and barley, is carried
out by the Government Cotton Marketing Organization (CMO) and the Wheat Or-
ganization, respectively. Both organizations have branch offices in Raqqa.
Marketing of other produce is mostly through wholesale market centers in
Raqqa, Thawra and Aleppo.
Cooperatives
3.18      There are 84 cooperatives with a total membership of 5,600 farmers
in the whole of the Raqqa Governorate. These cooperatives, which are mainly
service cooperatives, operate largely in the Euphrates Valley and on the
neighboring dryland terraces, covering an area of about 18,500 ha of irri-
gated cotton and 15,800 ha of rainfed cereal production.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Summary Description
4.01      The project would provide for the development of irrigated agri-
culture and rural infrastructure in an area of about 41,000 ha net, including
about 50% or 800 ha of Tel es Samen cooperative farm, in the Balikh Basin
(Maps IBRD 10973 and 10560R1).  The project would also provide for the re-
settlement of the balance of farming families that will be displaced by the
filling of Lake Assad for whom no other provision for resettlement has been
made. 1/  The project works would include:
(a) a main supply canal;
(b)  an irrigation distribution system, including one primary
pump station and four secondary pump stations, and surface
drainage facilities;
(c) on-farm development; and
(d) access roads and infrastructure for resettlement villages,
consisting of primary water supply facilities and community
buildings.
1/   3,000 families out of a total of 8,600 families.  Provision for the
resettlement of 5,600 families is being made in the ongoing pilot
project (para. 1.02).



*                                                - 9-
The project would also provide for the procurement of machinery and equip-
ment for supervision, operation and maintenance, and mechanized farming;
general consultants for the project, and consultants to carry out operational
studies of Lake Assad and technical studies of the requirements for the re-
habilitation of some 200,000 ha of existing irrigated agriculture in the
Lower Euphrates Valley (Map IBRD 10973); and the initial supply of materials
and chemicals for bilharzia and malaria control. The work would be carried
out under the direction of the Genera] Administration for the Development of
the Euphrates Basin (GADEB), a semi-autonomous Government agency.
B. Detailed Features 1/
4.02      The Main Supply Canal, called the Lower Main Canal, would have a
length of about 148 km. It would take off from the headworks which are being
constructed in the left abutment of the Euphrates Dam. After an 18.5 km
headreach section, almost parallel with the Euphrates River, the canal would
turn northward and follow the northern boundary of the project. A 1.0 km
lined tunnel would carry the canal discharge through some highlands close to
the gravity intake from the reservoir and at km 75, the canal would cross the
Balikh River by means of a syphon. With a design capacity at the head of the
canal of 140 m3/sec, the Lower Main Canal could ultimately serve an area of
about 102,000 net ha of which some 26,000 ha are already irrigated, or will
be irrigated at the time of completion of the canal, by pumping from the
Euphrates River. After the proposed project of 41,000 ha, some 35,000 ha
would remain to be developed at a later stage (Annex 11).
4.03      The full length of the main supply canal that would be provided
by the project is required to irrigate the project area, however investments
would be made under the project to provide for a canal capacity greater than
that required for the project area alone in order to allow for the require-
ments of developments in the area. Thus, the 18.5 km headreach section of
the canal would have sufficient additional capacity to make possible the
planned conversion to gravity supply of about 26,000 ha which are presently
irrigated by temporary pump facilities from the river and subject to an un-
certain water supply due to the instability of the river (Annex 11), as well
as the development of the further 35,000 ha referred to above. Beyond km 18.5
the degree of additional capacity to be provided would be according to the re-
quirements of the 35,000 ha later stage. Construction of the canal to the
capacity required for the development of the additional 35,000 ha at this time
is determined by the special construction requirements in the difficult gypsum
soils which form part of the canal subgrade. The provision of the additional
capacity to serve the 35,000 ha would increase the cost of the canal by about
25% and increase total investment bv less than 10%. This additional invest-
ment would be but a small part of the substantial further expenditure re-
quired to develop these 35,000 ha. Avoidance of future interruption of the
1/   A more detailed project description is given in Annex 11.



-10-
irrigation regime would more than justify the investment in incremental canal
capacity.
4.04      The Irrigation Distribution System would consist of a network of
canals taking off from the Lower Main Canal. Generally, major canals would
take off from the Lower Main Canal to serve a number of minor canals, each
minor canal serving a number of watercourses. Watercourses would serve
standard-sized blocks of land of about 25 ha.
4.05      For purposes of construction, the project area is divided into
two units (Map IBRFD 10560R1). Unit I of the project, also called "the island,"
consists of the highland terrace between Wadi el Fayd and the Balikh River
and would be served by pumping fron the gravity system.  The project would
provide for an increase in the existing siphon capacity under the W%Tadi el
Fayd and water would be carried along the existing Upper Salhabiyah Canal
to a 15 cumec capacity pump station that would be built at Bir el Hashin.
Four additional secondary pump stations would be required to command'the
land in Unit I. Unit II of the project would be served entirely by gravity.
About 3,500 ha of land has relatively poor internal drainage but the need
for subsurface drainage facilities has not yet been conclusively established.
The Government has agreed that, if the need for subsurface drainage developed
in the future, the government would cause such facilities to be provided, as
and when required.
4.06      Main canals would be concrete-lined and have a trapezoidal section
with side slopes generally of 1.5:1 and a water depth-to-bed ratio of 1:2.
Special canal design measures would be needed to minimize seepage, which
could cause subsidence in areas where gypsum occurs.  This would require
placement of a 0.5-mm thick polyvinyl chloride (PVC) lining in addition to
the proposed concrete lining or an equally effective design. It is estimated
that about 70% of the length of canals to be constructed under the project
would require these special measures. Preformed PVC water stops would be
placed to form joints in the continuously poured concrete lining. In places
where high groundwater might be a hazard, deep drains would be placed to
protect the canals. Minor canals would consist of pre-cast canaletti. On-
farm watercourses would be unlined except in areas of high permeability where
plastic liners would be placed.
4.07      On-farm Development.  The project would provide watercourses, on-
farm drainage, and land shaping. All on-farm development work would be com-
pleted prior to settlement, as part of the major construction contracts.
4.08      Irrigation would generally be by furrow irrigation, but insuffi-
cient information is available to determine whether the best method of irri-
gating some of the more pervious volcanic soils is by furrow, basin, or
sprinkler irrigation. Since this would have implications for the final farm
layouts, the project would provide for an experimental farm to be set up in
the volcanic soils area to investigate the least expensive methods of irriga-
tion and crop production that would be appropriate for these soils. Due to
the proposed phasing of project construction the necessary technical informa-
tion would be available from the experimental farm well before construction
would start in the area of volcanic soils.



4.09      Rural Infrastructure:   About 110 km of paved surface roads on a
compacted base, 7 m wide and with 1.2-m shoulders, would be provided by the
project as major access routes. One road would run along the left bank of
the Euphrates River between Thawra and Raqqa, and other roads would connect
various points along the Lower Main Canal with the central administrative
headquarters at Raqqa.  Feeder roads about 4 m wide with 1 m shoulders would
be constructed within the project area to link existing and planned villages
to the main road network. Feeder roads would be gravel-surfaced on a compacted
soil base.  Twenty-eight villages would be provided with primary domestic
water supply facilities including water towers. The larger villages (14)
would be provided with buildings for schools, clinics, and community activities.
4.10      Equipment.  The size of the project's proposed farm holdings (5-6
ha each) is sufficiently large to give an adequate family income to settlers
in the project area, for whom no alternative emplovment exists, provided the
intensity of land use is close to the 136% anticipated in the project (para
\6.01). In order to have such farms managed by one family alone with the
luggested cropping patterns, mechanization of land preparation, cultivationt
,and harvesting would have to be integrated in the farming system. The Gov-
errnent intends, therefore, to establish agricultural machinery services to
carry out all mechanized operations in the initial stages of settlement.
Cooperatives will be gradually allowed to take over these services when they
have gained the necessary training, experience and financial resources. The
project would provide the agricultural machinery and spare parts required to
bring the project to full development.  Vehicles and motorcycles for trans-
port of extension workers and for project supervision and equipment and build-
ings for project maintenance would also be provided by the project. For
maintenance and repair of machinery and vehicles, 66 garages and 18 repair
shops would be provided.
4.11      Consultants.  GADEB has employed two consultants, GERSAR (France)
annd Technoexportstroy (Bulgaria) to prepare detailed project designs; these
consultants would not be financed tnder the project. General consultants
would be provided by the project to assist GADEB with reviewing project
designs; the evaluation of tenders; supervision of construction; the devel-
opment of operation and maintenance procedures for the project and the forma-
tion of an agricultural extension service. Consultants would also be financed
under the project to develop operating rules for Lake Assad (para 4.14); to
study the requirements for the rehabilitation of some 200,000 ha of irrigated
agriculture in the Euphrates Valley (para 2.04); and prepare a first stage
55,000 ha rehabilitation project in the Euphrates Valley. Outline terms of
reference for consultants are given in Annex 12.
4.12      Bilharzia and Malaria Control.  The development of irrigation in
the project area could cause a spread of bilharzia in the Tel Abiad-Raqqa
endemic zone, as well as a recurrence of malaria. The project would there-
fore provide materials for an intensification of the existing bilharzia and
malaria control program (see Annex 13). For this purpose, the present health
control unit in Raqqa, consisting of a health inspector, technical staff and
spray operators, would be strengthened and a second unit would be established.



- 12 -
The project would provide equipment and chemicals needed to combat and con-
trol both diseases for the first six years. The Government is preparing a
program for disease control and intends to furnish it to the Bank Group for
approval before December 31, 1974.
C. Water Demand, Supply, and Quality
4.13      At full development, from about 1986 onwards, about 710 Mm3 of water
would be diverted to the proposed proJect annually (Annex 14). Water would
be supplied by gravity from the 11.7 billion m3 capacity Lake Assad which
started being filled at the end of 1973. Filling is planned to last over a
period of about three years. Part of the water diverted to the project would
return to the Euphrates River as return flow, increasing eventually to about
30% of total diversions, leaving about 500 Mm3 for net annual consumptive use
by the project. The amount of water consumed by the project would be less
than 2% of the average river flow at Thawra and some 3% of the water of the
river that is presently unused. In a drought year, with a 10% frequency of
occurence, the corresponding percentages increase to 3% and 7% respectively
if the reasonable assumption is made that some 10-15% of river storage is
released for flow augmentation. If allowance is made for the reduction of
water use due to the cessation of irrigation in the area to be inundated by
Lake Assad and for diversion to the pilot area, the incremental net diversion
attributable to the project would be between 300 to 400 1-Im3 per annum.  The
implications of the use by the proposed project of water from an international
river has been carefully considered by the Bank's staff. The staff is satis-
fied that: (a) the order of magnitude of additional diversion by Syria due
to the project, which is partly offset by the reduction in water use caused
by the cessation of irrigation by farmers in the area to be inundated by Lake
Assad, is so marginal that it cannot be considered harmful to the present or
long-term interests of any of the riparians and (b) when account is taken of
the present level of diversion fron the Euphrates River by Syria, the addi-
tional diversion attributable to the project would be well within the allot-
ment to Syria under any equitable apportionment of the Euphrates waters bet-
ween the three riparian countries.
4.14      Although available data on the Euphrates water regime and prelim-
inary operating criteria for the Euphrates Dam sufficiently demonstrate the
security of water supplies to the project (Annex 14) no firm operating rules
have vet been developed for Lake Assad. Further reservoir operating studies
need to be carried out in order to develop firm operating rules which take
due account of the requirements of power, irrigation and compensation flows.
Consultants would be provided by the project to carry out the necessary
studies, and to develop specific operating rules for the reservoir (para 4.11).
4.15      Quality of the Euphrates River water at Thawra is satisfactory for
irrigation, having a relatively low salt and sodium content (Classification
C2-S1).  Water conductivity is presently in the range 300-600 micromhos/cm
(Annex 14).



-13 -
D. Construction Schedule and Status of Engineering
Construction Schedule
4.16      The project would be completed by December 1980 as shown in the
schedule given in Annex 15. Work is planned to start on the first construction
contract to be awarded in the fourth quarter of 1974. This contract would
cover the first 18.5 km of the Lower Main Canal and the development of about
10,000 ha which comprise Unit I. Work on the two other main construction
contracts is planned to start in the third quarter of 1975 and the first
quarter of 1976. Village infrastructure would be built in accordance with
the requirements for settlement (Annex 16). Water would first be diverted
into the Lower Main Canal in 1977 and 5,000 ha within the project would be
irrigated in that year. The proposed construction schedule would require
careful phasing of the project works to avoid delays. The general consultants
provided by the project would draw up a detailed plan of onerations to phase
the construction-settlement-agricultural development of the project and would
assist GADEB with monitoring progress (Annex 12).
Status of Engineering
4.17      A feasibility study of the development of the Balikh Basin was
completed in November 1967 by Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (UK). The
part of the study covering the proposed project of 41,000 ha was updated
by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme in January 1973. Detailed designs
by consultants are now underway, and contract documents for the first phases
of construction had been substantially completed by February 1974. Design
and construction experience has been obtained with works in the pilot areas.
E. Cost Estimates
4.18      Total project cost, excluding import duties and taxes, is estimated
to be LS 655.9 million (US$170.4 million), including LS 225.1 million
(US58.5 million) of contingencies. Estimates of civil works are based
on estimates presented in feasibility reports and unit prices from contracts
recently let in the pilot areas updated to December 1973. Estimates for the
cost of the plastic underlining of canals were adapted from recent actual
costs for similar work in the USA.  Physical contingencies vary between 10-20%,
but for most work items are 20%. The relatively high level of physical con-
tingencies is due to the difficult soil conditions in the project area. Con-
tingencies for price escalation for both local and foreign expenditures re-
flect the most recent estimate available of the effects on project cost of
the increases in petroleum prices. For civil works price increases of 12%
in 1974, 10% in 1975 and 8% in 1976 through 1980 have been allowed for. For
equipment, the corresponding figures are 9% in 1974, 7% in 1975 and 5% in
1976 through 1980.



- 14 -
4.19      The estimated foreign exchange component of the project, including
contingencies of US$23.8 million (LS 91.6 million) is US$73.0 million
(LS 281.1 million) or about 43% of total project cost. The foreign ex-
change estimate assumes that foreign contractors will win major construc-
tion contracts, since there are few, if any, Syrian contractors capable
of undertaking works of this size. Details of the cost estimates are given
in Annex 17 and are sumrarized below:
LS (millions)           US$ (millions)!1       Foreign
Item                          Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Exchange
Main Supply Canal            122.36   85.00 207.36   31.78  22.08  53.86    41
Irrigation and Drainage
System                       64.95   34.34  99.29   16.87   8.92  25.79    35
On-Farm Development            18.01    9.12  27.13    4.68   2.37   7.05    34
Rural Infrastructure           19.45    8.43  27.88    5.05   2.19   7.24    31
Equipment                       1.64   20.02  21.66    0.43   5.20   5.63    93
Consultants                                                                      78
Project General
Consultants                  3.59   13.63  17.22    0.93   3.54   4.47
Lake Assad Oper. Studies    0.40    1.16   1.56    0.10   0.30   0.40
Rehabilitation Project
Preparation Studies          3.51   11.55  15.06    0.91   3.00   3.91
Operating Facilities and
General Items                 7.46    6.23  13.69    1.94   1.62   3.56    46
Subtotal                241.37  189.48 430.85   62.69  49.21 111.91         44
Contingencies
Physical                     45.86   29.30  75.16   11.91   7.61  19.52    35
Price Escalation             87.64   62.29 149.93   22.76  16.18  38.94    42
Subtotal                133.50   91.59 225.09   34.68  23.79  58.46    40
Total Project Cost    374.87  281.07 655.94   97.37  73.00 170.37    43
/1   Differences due to rounding.
F. Financial Plan
4.20      The Bank Group, through a blend of an IBRD loan and an IDA credit,
would finance 100% of the estimated foreign exchange component of the project
of US$73 million.  Local currency exDenditures would be financed by the Gov-
ernment of Syria. The financing plan would be as folllows:



*                                                -15 -
LS           USS             % of
Item                      ---(million)---         Project Cost
IBR) Loan                  242.55        63.00             37
IDA Credit                  38.50        10.00              6
Government                 374.89        97.37             57
Total                655.94        170.37           100
Bank Group financing would cover about 43% of the total cost of the project.
The Bank loan would be made to the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic for
a term of 30 years, with an 8-year grace period and at an interest rate of
7.25% per annum, and the IDA credit for a 50-year period with a 10-year grace
period. The Bank loan/IDA credit blend is proposed on country grounds. A
30-year term Bank loan is appropriate on project grounds, approximating to
the life of a gravity feed irrigation project. An estimate of total annual
expenditures is given in Annex 18. Interest during construction, estimated
to be US$8.25 million, would be paid by the Government.
G. Procurement, Disbursement and Audit
Procurement
4.21      The major part of the civil works would be divided into three
construction contracts, with a total estimated value of UTS$149.00 million
equivalent. Bidding documents for these contracts and a standard set of
general conditions for other major civil works contracts costing less than
uS$500,000 would be approved by the Bank Group before being tendered under
international competitive bidding according to the Bank's guidelines. Cons-
truction of village community buildings, water supplies, and miscellaneous
administrative buildings (for example, on the experimental farm) estimated to
cost a total of US$2.5 million would be let in small contracts after local
competitive bidding.  Because they are widely scattered and construction would
be spread over long periods, international bidding would not be appropriate
for these smaller works.
4.22      Equipment and vehicles needed for supervision, operation, mainte-
nance, farm operations, and agricultural extension (Annex 19), and materials
for the bilharzia and malaria control component would be procured after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines,
except for purchases not exceeding Us$5,000 equivalent wlien procurement will
be in accordance with the normal procuremlent procedures of GADEB, provided
such contracts do not exceed an aggregate of US$100,000.
4.23      In the case of General Consultants, GADEB has invited one of the
present design consultants (para 4.11) to submit proposals. Consultants to
conduct the Lake Assad Operating Studies and the rehabilitation project pre-
paration studies (para 4.11) would be appointed according to normal Bank
procedures.



- 16 -
4.24      The Government has agreed that the above procurement procedures
would be followed.
Disbursement
4.25      Withdrawals from the Bank loan account would be made only after the
proceeds of the IDA credit are fully withdrawn or committed. Disbursements
would be made in FY1975-82 to finance:
(i)  45% of civil works contracts, representing the estimated
foreign exchange component;
(ii)  the CIF cost of imported equipment and materials, or 75%
of the cost of equipment procured in Syria representing
the estimated foreign exchange component;
(iii) the foreign exchange costs of consultant services.
A disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 20. Savings if any, would be
cancelled.
4.26      It is proposed that the IDA credit finance retroactively up to
$150,000 of expenditures for general consultants' services, which are expect-
ed to be made after January 1, 1974.  Any undisbursed amount of the proposed
loan and credit will be cancelled.
Auditing of Accounts
4.27      Government Departments and agencies maintain budgets and accounts
which are sublect to audit by the Auditor Genera.l.  The Government has agreed
that (a) separate accounts would be kept for the project by GADEB, and (b)
certified satisfactorily audited annual financial statements pertaining to
the project, including a review by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank Group, would be. forwarded to the Bank within four months of the end of
each fiscal year.
V. ORPMAIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
The Project Entity
5.01      The General Administration for the Development of the Euphrates
Basin (GADEB) would be responsible for project execution. Established in
1968 as a semi-autonomous agency of the Ministry of the Euphrates Dam, GADEB
is responsible for all aspects of the development of irrigation in the
Euphrates Basin in Syria.
5.02      GADEB has four main operational "sectors":  Irrigation, Agricul-
ture, Social Affairs, and Finance and Administration; and maintains separate
offices for Planning and Statistics, Land Acquisition, Public Relations and



-17 -
Procurement. GADEB is headed by a Director General, and the four operating
sectors are headed by Deputy Director Generals. A more detailed description
of the organization of GADEB is given in Annex 21.
5.03      Up to the present GADEB has been largely involved in:  planning
for the resettlerent of families to be displaced from the area to be inundated
by Lake Assad; in the planning and supervision of construction of irrigation
facilities and resettlement villages in the 19,600 ha pilot project; in re-
search activities at the various experimental stations in the Balikh Basin;
and in the planning and organization of future development activities in the
Balikh Basin, particularly the proposed project. Since little development of
irrigated agriculture has yet taken place, the staff concerned with this dev-
elopment aspect will need considerable strengthening.  Furthermore, although
experience in supervision of design and construction has been obtained in the
ongoing pilot areas, the unusual design, construction, operation and manage-
ment problems created by the presence of gypsiferous soils in the project
area would demand the experience of specialists presently not available in
Syria. Design consultants are already employed by GADEB (para 4.11) but pro-
vision has been made in the cost estimates for the employment of general con-
sultants to provide the further technical and managerial assistance that is
necessary. The Government has agreed that general consultants acceptable to
Bank Group be employed for the project on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank Group. Outline terms of reference for the general consultants are
given in Annex 12.  GADEB has asked for proposals for the post of general
consultants from one of the existing design consultants.
5.04      The post of Director General is of great importance for the effi-
cient operation of GADEB. The Government has agreed that the post of Director
General will be filled at all times by a person fully competent in the manage-
ment of a large irrigated agriculture project.
Extension
5.05      Because of the vital importance of agriculture extension in the
project area, a new Extension Section would be established within the Agri-
cultural Affairs Division of GADEB.  Extension staff would be drawn from
the present agriculttiral staff of GADFR, from new graduates of the univer-
sities and technical schools, and from the Ministrv of Agriculture. The
general consultants to be emploved for the project would include three
trained extension specialists, who would work in close cooperation with
the head of the Agricultural Extension Section and Extension Supervisors
of GADEB. Thev would assist GADER in the setting up of an efficient ex-
tension service for the project, and in the supervision of extension and
training of Extension Supervisors and Field Agents.
Training
5.06      Training programs for GADEB's staff have been planned but no com-
prehensive training plan has been prepared. Overseas training is being pro-
vided by a number of tNDP projects.  The Development Departmient of GADEB is
already providing short training courses for future directors of cooperatives



- 18 -
and other staff who will be working in the pilot project. Similar training
couirses are planned for the staff to be employed in the project area. A
number of senior staff from the Ministry of Agriculture would be seconded
to GADFB to provide in-service training of new graduates recruited for set-
tlement and agricultural development work. The general consultants would
provide training for extension supervision and field agents. The importance
of training was stressed during negotiations, and GADEB is preparing further
details of the ongoing and planned training programs of GADEB in order that
a satisfactorv assessment can be made as to whether the present arrangements
for training fully satisfy the needs of the project.
Settlement
5.07      The Social Affairs Sector of GADEB (Annex 21) would be largely
responsible for implementation of settlement and resettlement in the Balikh
Basin and for surveys, studies and evaluation of farm production and incomes
of farmers in the reservoir area as well as of those to be resettled in the
pilot and project areas. Basic resettlement policy issues of land tenure,
compensation for property inundated by the reservoir, project charges, etc.,
would be handled by the existing High Joint Committee for Resettlement com-
posed of ministers directly and indirectly involved with settlement, under
the Minister of the Euphrates Dam as Chairman. Two senior UNDP Consultants
for Regional Planning and Settlement Planning, respectively, have recently
been attached to the Ministry of the Euphrates Dam to advise and assist in
settlement issues.  The Government has agreed that a detailed settlement plan
would be furnished to the Bank Group for comment, prior to any settlement
taking place within the project area. It is expected that the settlement
plan for the project area would be patterned after the one now being develop-
ed for the pilot area, but would take into consideration the experience gained
during the pilot stage settlement efforts.
Operation and Maintenance
5.08      The Rural Engineering Division of GADEB (Annex 21) would gradually
take over operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage networks,
pumping stations and buildings from the Irrigation Sector as project con-
struction is completed. It would also be responsible for the distribution
of irrigation water and for providing machinery services. GADEB is preparing
a detailed operational plan for the formation of machinery services and in-
tends to furnish it to the Bank Group for approval before June 30, 1975. The
General Consultants would provide up to four specialists to assist in the
planning and setting up of machinery services (Annex 12).
5.09      The Irrigation Section within the Rural Engineering Division would
be specifically charged with the supervision of irrigation schedules and the
tabulation and collection of water charges for payment of operation and main-
tenance as well as for recovery of investment. Four operation and mainte-
nance branches would be set up covering the project area and the branches
would be responsible for operation and normal maintenance within their boun-
daries.  Coordination of operation would be through an operational headquarters



0                                                - 19 -
established at Raqqa. A central workshop and special plant for maintenance
would also be located at Raqqa. Detailed procedures to be adopted for op-
eration and maintenance, and staffing and equipment requirements would be
developed by the Project General Consultants (Annex 12).
5.10      The Euphrates Dam and the gravity intake for the Lower Main Canal,
presently being constructed by a different agency of the Ministry of the
Euphrates Dam, the General Organization for the Euphrates Dam (GOED), would
be operated and maintained by GOED on completion of construction. The Gov-
ernment has agreed that arrangements which are satisfactory to both the
Government and the Bank Group will be made for a periodical inspection of the
Euphrates Dam in order to ensure its safety.
Credit
5.11      Total annual credit requirements in the project area, at full de-
velopment, are estimated at LS 19.5 million (Annex 10). The Agricultural
Bank would provide credit and would be expanded to handle the expansion of
short-term credit in cash and kind to individuals and cooperatives. The
Agricultural Extension Section of GADEB would assist in the supervision of
credit (Annex 21). The branch of the Agricultural Bank at Raqqa, which em-
ploys about 20 people, will need further staffing and increase in funds as
the project's credit operations get underway. Efforts will also have to be
made to improve the extension of medium and long term loans, which so far
have been in short supply (para 3.15). The Government has agreed that it
would cause funds to be made available to the Agricultural Bank to cover
credit needs of the project for on-lending on terms and conditions commensu-
rate with the needs of the farmers.
Recovery of Project Costs
5.12      Traditionally, a proportion of the costs of construction opera-
tion, and maintenance of irrigation schemes has been recovered from the
beneficiaries of the schemes, but there has been no unified legislation on
charges. In the past two decades, the Government has had two types of
charges on public irrigation systems: (a) costs of operation and mainte-
nance; and (b) cost recovery of investment in irrigation infrastructure
such as dams and canals. In the case of development of the Euphrates Basin,
Government is considering measures for the recovery of investment costs from
the beneficiaries of the project, in addition to the operation and mainte-
nance costs. Estimates of future farm income in the project area suggest
that significant revenues could be generated from the project. With the
level of output and prices estimated for the project, the recovery of an-
nual Operation and Maintenance costs and full investment costs at no interest
within the project lifetime could be obtained with a levy of about 35% of the
farmers' projected annual net farm income. Taking account the projected
buildup of farm income, this level of recovery could start from about the
third year of agricultural development. Cost recovery during the first and
second years of agricultural development would be unlikely to be more than



- 20-
15% and 25% respectively of net farm income. This would amount to weighted
average per farm project charges of LS 640, LS 1,270, LS 2,060 for agricultural
development years 1, 2 and 3, respectively; and LS 2,880 at full development,
which is equivalent to about LS 530 per ha.
5.13      At this level of recovery, the present value at a discount rate of
10%, of Government subsidy to farmers amounts to about LS 238 million (LS
5,805 per ha). Revenues would thus cover 32% of the total costs. 1/ If the
Euphrates Dam's sunk costs in the estimated range that can be prorated to the
project are included without interest, the recovery rate would be between
24-30%. In view of the need to maintain adequate incentives for the proj-
ect beneficiaries who are all small farmers, this substantial level of pub-
lic subsidy appears inevitable to develop the project area. The indicated
level of project charges is considered to be the appropriate level that
could be levied without jeopardizing the farmers' production incentive.
5.14      The Government has agreed that project charges would be levied from
the project beneficiaries in order to recover not less than:
(a) full operation and maintenance costs of the irrigation
system which would serve the project area; and
(b)  full investment costs allocated to the project without
interest within the project lifetime of 35 years.
VI. AC-PIC11LTURAL DEVELOPEINT AND PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS,
PRICESP AND FAR4 INCOMFS
6.01      Irrigation to be provided under the project would enable the devel-
opment of irrigated crop and forage production, eventually integrated with
livestock production, over an area of 41,000 ha where, before, only about
2,800 ha were under partial irrigation and 20,000 ha under low yield and un-
reliable dry land cereal farming. Overall cropping intensity would gradually
increase from 48% to about 136% at full development in 1986.  With proper
use of fertilizers and other agricultulral inputs, most crops would attain
full development in the fourth year, with the exception of cotton, which
would reach full development in the fifth year, and fruit orchards in the
sixth year after planting. Projected yields, area under production, and
the indicative total output of each crop at full development are presented
in Annex 7, Table 1. For example, cotton production, at full development,
is expected to increase substantially from about 2,000 to the order of
45,000 tons per annum, and cereal production from about 12,500 to some
55,000 tons per annum. New crops such as maize, berseem, groundnuts,
1/   The corresponding cash flow for the project is given in Annex 22.                     0



- 21 -
alfalfa, vegetables, fruits and potatoes would be introduced. Full live-
stock development is expected to be attained in about the fifth year fol-
lowing supplemental feeding with forage, crops. The number of breeding
ewes supported bv the project area would increase significantly (Annex 7,
Tables 2 and 4) and annual output of livestock products would increase.
Indicative projections are as follows: milk, from 0.9 million to 6.0 million
kg; wool, from 45 to 220 tons; and meat of marketable cull ewes and lambs,
from about 190 to 1,900 tons (liveweight).
*            6.02       Different crop rotations would he followed on the various types of
soils, with emphasis on considerable crop diversification on the better soils,
integration of crop and livestock production on lower quality soils, and
groundnuts, vegetables and fruits on light volcanic soils. The proposed
farm sizes include: (a) 5.3 ha farm on Classes I, II and III soils, (b) 6.3
ha farm on Class IV and heavy volcanic soils, and (c) 5.0 ha farm on light
volcanic soils. The difference in farm sizes is due to differences in labor
requirements for the various crop rotations, as, in principle, it is planned
that each type of farm could be managed by one family alone (para 4.10).
Satisfactory intensities of land use can only be achieved if operations
such as land preparation, planting, cultivation and harvesting are mecha-
nized.  Mechanization is already practiced under contract with private op-
erators or through cooperatives in the irrigated areas in the Euphrates
Valley.
6.03      21arket prospects are favorable for both domestic and export crops
under the project. Marketing and processing facilities are adequate. Cot-
ton outnut from the project, which is expected to rise to some 45,000 tons
of seed cotton, would replace the output which will be foregone in the area
to be inundated by Lake Assad where present output is of the order of 40,000
tons of seed cotton (Annex 23).
6.04      Domestic prices of agricultural commodities to be produced in the
project area are, generally, at parity with world prices after allowance is
made for transportation and other costs. The project's output is valued ac-
cording to the commodity price projections by IBRD's Economic Analysis and
Projections Department. The projected prices are ex-farmgate. Details of
market prospects and prices are presented in Annex 23.
6.05      Annex 24 presents the detailed full development farm budget for
three representative farms. The following table summarizes expected farmers'
incomes at full development and their repayment capacity toward recovery of
project costs.



- 22 -
5.3 ha Farm on  6.3 ha Farm on   5.0 ha Farm on
Class I, II,    Class IV and       Light Volcanic
Item                 III Soils        Heavy Volcanic   Soils
Soils
(Number of Farms in
each Category)                  (5,810)            (1,140)            (600)
----- -----------LS/year            ------------------
Gross value of farm output       13,575             14,540           12,375
Production costs excluding
family labor                     5,500               5,630            3,975
Net farm income before
project charges                   8,075              8,910            8,400
Project charges (35% of net
farm income or 39% of net
incremental income)              2,825               3,120            2,940
Net farm income                   5,250              5,790            5,460
6.06      At full development, weighted average net annual farm income in
the project area before project charges is expected to reach LS 8,230 at
1973 values. After deducting 35% of the net income as project charges,
farmers would be left with LS 5,350. This compares with currently iden-
tifiable farm income of LS 920 received by the farmers in the project area
(Annex 24, Table la), and would be close to the average national income.
The average national farm family income is likely to be within the range
of LS 3,000-4,000.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The provision of irrigation inputs and services and the development
of the rural infrastructure under the project would make possible the reset-
tlement of the balance of the farmers displaced from the area to be inundated
by Lake Assad who cannot be resettled in the pilot area and bring intensive
and advanced agriculture into a net area of 41,000 ha in the Balikh Basin,
which currently has a low cropping intensity and yields, with no prospects
for agricultural improvement without the project. The major quantifiable
benefit from the project would be the substantial increase in agricultural
output which would raise farmers' income and employment opportunities.
0



- 23 -
7.02      At full development, the annual gross value of agricultural output
from the project area is expected to reach LS 103 million, nearly 17 times
the expected output without the project. After deducting the annual costs
of production and without costing the family labor inputs, the incremental
value of the project's net annual production would be LS 61 million.
7.03      The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 11% (Annex
25). If the estimated proportion of the sunk costs in the Euphrates Dam that
are allocable to the project are included in the first project year, the rate
of return would be between 8% and 10%, depending on the basis for the al-
location of sunk costs (Annex 25). If the entire investment cost for canal
construction were charged against the proiect, despite the fact that a part
of the investment would be serving an area outside the project area, the
economic rate of return would be 8%. Under the assumption of a 10% con-
struction cost overrun combined with a 15% reduction in project net incre-
mental benefits, the rate of return would be 9%. Sensitivity tests suggest
that the project's economic rate of return is unlikely to drop below 8.5%
(Annex 25).
7.04      The project would result in substantial level of income for a large
number of farm families in the project area, and would contribute to reducing
income disparities between agricultural and urban areas as well as reducing
migration to urban centers. The project would have a substantial employment
effect by providing near full farm employment opportunities to some 7,500
families, requiring 2.6 million man-days of work, compared to the estimated
400,000 man-days' labor requirement in the area without the project (Annex
26). Additional employment would also be generated in farm machinery, agri-
cultural marketing and processing sectors. Unquantified benefits include the
general improvement of living conditions in the project area, the demonstra-
tion effects of the project, institution-building and training.
Environment and Health
7.05      Project area farmers would benefit from various social infrastruc-
tural improvements provided under the project. An important contribution in
that respect would be the provision of a clean water supply for domestic pur-
poses to the villages. This should aid in the sustained control of bilharzia,
following the eradication of this disease in the project area.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The r1overnment has agreed that:
(a)  if the need for subsurface drainage develops in the project,
the Government would cause such facilities to be provided as
and when required (para 4.05);



- 24 -
(b)  procurement procedures outlined in para 4.21 through 4.23                         0
would be followed;
(c) separate accounts would be kept for the project by GADEB
and certified, satisfactorily audited annual financial
statements pertaining to the project, including a review
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group,
would be forwarded to the Bank within four months of the
end of each fiscal year (para 4.27);
(d) general consultants for the project, acceptable to the
Bank Group, would be employed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank Group (para 5.03);
(e) the post of Director General of GADEB would, at all times
be filled by a person fully competent in the management
of a large irrigated agriculture project (para 5.04);
(f) a detailed settlement plan would be furnished to the Bank
Group for comment prior to any settlement taking place
within the project area (para 5.07);
(g) Government and the Bank Group will agree to satisfactory
arrangements for a periodical inspection of the Euphrates
dam in order to ensure its safety (para 5.10);
(h) Government would cause funds to be made available to the
Agricultural Bank to cover credit needs of the project for
onlending on terms and conditions commensurate with the
needs of the farmers (para 5.11);
(i) project charges would be levied from the project's benefi-
ciaries at rates and terms sufficient to recover not less
than: (i) full operation and maintenance costs of the ir-
rigation system which would serve the project area, and
(ii) full investment costs allocated to the project with-
out interest within the project lifetime of 35 years (para
5.14).
8.02      The following points were also discussed with the Government during
negotiations:
(a) the preparation of a detailed plan for an effective bilharzia
and malaria control program before December 31, 1974 (para 4.12);
(b) the ongoing and planned training programs of GADEB, (para 5.06);
(c) the preparation of a detailed operational plan for the formation
of machinery services before June 30, 1975 (para 5.08).
0









ANIEx 1
Tabl e 1
SYRIAN ARAB REIPUBLiC
-BALIKH IERRIGATION PROJECT
National Production of Selected Crops
('000 tons)
Ypears      Cotton       W.4heat      1ar ee        lentils,   So;rTh I           'lS. r Lreplr
1960                        r55        156             0           31              12?
1961                        757         33                        3                86
1 62                     1 ,371        798           70           66               f1
1 260                     1 ?120        78l           9           -0              1 27
19?6l        373 /1I      1 ,10n       6? 70                               1
1 96<         L76         1 ,0o Th     6'-0           66           IL             171
1966         37 ,          5             3           22           15
1967         329          1 ,0U         90                                        1 L
1^26Q        39'-           600         12           htO          37              166
196,         3t92         1,003        c27             -0 n1                       12 j P
19<70o       383            62        ?3            98           182?
1971 n-7      6)6                       166           61           10
1^7^ /2 TLi               1,308         710            36          20              27
/1   Rerresent- annua a-ver.e nroductiLo-, for 1 960 throucrh 1964.
/6  ..re'iminaorv.
Sourcke:  Central . u'e^-.u  o  Statistics throucrla 1?971; M1inistry, of ATricu1t'rst
in 1 ^72.
0



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIM  IRRGTIOAL%  PROJBCT
National Livestock Population.  960-71
('000)
Livestock        1960    1961    1962    1963    196lh   1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971
Sheep           3,61t9  2,901   3,223   3,926   4,753   5,373   5,682   5,735   4,848   5,963   6,112   5,230
Goats /*1         660     439      535     690     800      877     910     827     779      770     771     701
Oxen              130       96     112     113     112    1i1       108      84      85       86      60      71
Cows              250     239      231     21)4    252     274      293     253     273      277     305     29?t
Calves             73       86      91      92      99      121     124     129     1 ti    150     145     139
Camels /1          25       13      12      11      11        8       7      10       6.1t    6.0      3.9     8.6
Buffalo /1          2J1 1Ji          1.7     1.6     1.5      1.3     1.8     1.3     1.3      1.3     1.7     0.8
Pigs /1             0.3      0.1     0.1     0.2     0.2      0.1     0.1     0.1     0.3      0.1     0.1     0.h
Horses             63       66      67      67      67       70      67      62      63       64      68      66
Mules              67       72      70      68      65       65      66      63      65       66      65       62
Asses             189      1 t'6    196    202     200      190     199     241      235     243     235      2)04
Poultry         2,860   3,296   3,367   3,736   4,675   4,599   4,090   3,734   1,,246   3,585   3,669   4,785
W Without lambs or kids.
/1  Number of livestock subject to enumeration tax by Mohafazat.
Source: Statistical Abstracts, Central Bureau of Statistics.



ANNEX 2
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agrarian Reform -/
1.        In 1958, the Government initiated a program of agrarian reform aimed
at breaking up the large estates and redistributing land to sharecroppers and
farm laborers. After a temporary setback following the dissolution of the
union with Egypt in 1961, a new agrarian reform law was introduced in 1963.
Ceilings on land ownership were set between 15 and 55 ha on irrigated land
and 80 and 300 ha on rainfed land, depending on quality and extent of annual
rainfall. The excess land was to be redistributed to tenants and landless
farmers in plots up to a maximum size of 8 ha of irrigated land per family
or 30-45 ha of rainfed land per family. Actual allotments have been much
lower than those specified limits; the expropriated land allotted for farmers
(individually), on average, comes to 8.4 ha per farmer, including a combination
of both irrigated and unirrigated land. The allotments of the State Domain
land in the Ghab region, which consists of mostlv irrigated land, are about
3.0 ha per farmer on average.
2.        An area of 1.5 million ha was expropriated from 1958 to 1969; but
the redistribution of land was very slow until 1968. Uncertainty about the
final distribution created a serious impediment to agricultural development
as these allottees had no interest in making improvements.
3.        By the end of 1969, 0.8 million ha of 1.5 million ha were finally
distributed. The remaining 0.7 million ha were earmarked for State farms or
otherwise excluded from distribution for various reasons, namely unsuitabil-
ity for cultivation, community use, etc.  In addition, 0.4 million ha of State
domain land were also distributed. Thus, the total land redistributed under
agrarian reform, 1.2 million ha, represents 20% of the total cultivated area
of the country.
1/   Source:  N. S. Randhawa, draft report, "Syrian Arab Republic:  Problems
and Prospects of Development of Agriculture", IBRD, EMENA, November 1971.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
The Euphrates River
1.        The Euphrates River has a length of about 3,000 km and a drainage
area of 444,000 sq kE. The river passes through the territories of three
countries, Turkey, Syria, and Iraq. The mean annual "natural" flow is about
32 billion m3 of which about 50% is presently used by the three countries
situated on the river. On the basis of mean annual flow volume, it is the
third largest river in the Mliddle East region after the Nile (about 92 billion
m3/annum) and the Tigris (about 47 billion m3/annum).
2.        The headwaters of the river originate at an elevation of over 3,000
m in the Taurus Mountains of northeastern Turkey.  After leaving the mountain-
ous areas of Turkey the river cuts through the Syrian Plateau in a 5-10 km
wide valley situated some 40-60 m below the surrounding plateau land. Two
tributaries, the Balikh and Khabour, join the Euphrates in Syria. After
leaving Syria, the Euphrates enters Iraq where downstream from Ramadi the
valley broadens and the river flows through the flat Mesopotamian Plain. The
Euphrates and Tigris Rivers join some 50 km north of Basrah to form the
Sliatt-el-Arab which flows out into the Persian Gulf.
3.        The bulk of the river flow is contributed by run-off from the Turkish
mountains where annual precipitation over thie basin averages about 625 mm, vary-
ing from 400 mm near the Syrian border to over 1,500 mm at the headwaters.
Much of the precipitation in Turkey falls as snow. In Syria precipitation
varies from 400 rmm at the Turkislh border to slightly over 100 ma at the Iraqi
border. In Iraq the rainfall increases to about 200 mm in the lower portion
of the drainage area near the Persian Gulf. At Thawra, in Syria, the mean
annual measured flow volume, based on 46 vears of records (1925-70) is about
26.0 billion m3.  About 50% of the average arnual flow of the river is pres-
ently diverted for irrigation by Turkey, Syria and Iraq.
4.        There are two existing control structures on the river, the Ramadi
and Hiidiyah Barrages, both situated in Iraq.  Two dams are presently under
construction - Keban Dam in Turkev and the Euphrates Dam in Syria. The Ramadi
Barrage is situated about 150 km from the Syrian/Iraqi border, and controls
inlet to Lake 1'abbaniya, a 2.9 billion m3 capacity off-river storage reservoir
which provides for some regulation of the river flow in Iraq.  The Ilindiyah
Barrage, some 80 km downstream, controls the river water levels for irrigation
systems commanding some 525,000 ha.  Keban in Turkey is plarned to be completed
by 1975.  The gross capacity of Keban reservoir will be about 30 billion m3
and the dam will be used exclusively for hydropower generation with a final
installed capacity of 1,240 MW.  The Euphrates Dam in Syria was closed in
July 1973, and filling of the reservoir (Lake Assad) started at the end of
1973. The dam will provide for both power ancd irrigation in the planned
developr,ment of the Euphrates Basin in Syria (Annex 4).






ANNEX 4
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKII IRRIGATION PROJECT
Development of the Euphrates Basin in Syria
A. The Euphrates Dam
The Dam, Power Station and Reservoir
1.        The dam under construction at Tlhawra is an earthfill dam with an
impervious clay core. The height of the dam will be a maximum of 60 m. The
crest level will be 308 m asl and the full supply level in the reservoir 300
m asl.  The length of the dam will be 4,500 m, and the volume of fill 46 mil-
lion m3. Construction is predominantly by hydraulic fill. Provision is being
made for a possible Stage 2 heightening of the dam by 20 m to a crest elevation
of 328 m asl at some later date. Construction of the dam is well advanced and
reservoir filling started at the end of the cotton harvest season in November/
December 1973.
2.        The power station is situated on the right abutment, and is integrated
with the gated spillway.  Three 100 MW units will be installed by the end of
1973 and space has been provided for the further installation of five more
100 MW units. If the dam is heightened to the Stage 2 level of 328 m asl the
power capacity could be increased to 1,100 MW. The turbines are 6 m diameter
Kaplan turbines.  The discharge through the units at design head would be 292
m3/sec per unit.
3.        The Spillway situated above the power station will have a crest level
of 286.5 m asl, and tainter gates will retain a normal reservoir level of 300
m asl. Maximum spillway discharge with a flood of 0.01% probability of occur-
rence routed through Keban reservoir would be about 17,000 cusecs, under which
conditions the water level in the reservoir would reach 304.9 m.
4.        Lake Assad will have a gross Stage I capacity of 11.7 billion m3
with a retention level of 300 m asl and a live storage of 7.4 billion m3 with
a minimum operation level of 285 m asl. The Lake will be about 80 km long
and average 8 km wide at maximum retention level, when the surface area will
be 640 sq km. Evaporation loss has been estimated by the project consultants
to be 1.5 billion m3 per annum. If the dam is heightened to the Stage II
crest level of 328 in asl the live storage would increase to 12.8 billion m3
with a retention level of 320 m asl.
5.        Some 63,000 ha of which some 28,000 ha is presently irrigated and
7,000 ha under rainfed agriculture will be inundated by Lake Assad.
0



ANNEX 4
Page  2
Irrigation
6.        The possibilities of expanding irrigation in the Euphrates Basin
from a reservoir at Thawra or by direct pumping from the river were first
investigated by consultants in 1963 1/. Technically the investigation was
limited to a six-month reconnaissance soil survev and some very preliminary
engineering studies which identified about 550,000 ha in the basin suitable
for irrigation.  About 185,000 ha of this, situated in the Euphrates Valley
lowlands, were already irrigated.  In view of thp very preliminary nature
of the engineerinr studies, the economic feasibility of the development of
these areas was not estahlished at this time, but it was established that
the soil and topographical features of the basin were such that large areas
would be suitable for irrigation if water for irrigation could be economic-
ally provided. A study of the macro economic framework and social aspects
of development of irrigation in the Basin was made in 1964. 2/ Subsequent
to the reconnaissance survev of 1963, work carried out by government agencies
has increased the area of land considered technically suitable for irrigation
to 640,000 ha. This area of 640,000 ha is now used by GADEB as an indicative
planning figuire of the potential for future development.
7.        Construction of irrigation facilities is now underway in the Balikh
Basin and further development has high government priority. In addition a
drainage project in the lowlying lands of the Euphrates Valley is actively
promoted by the government for inclusion in the next five year development
plan (1976-80).  The foreign exchange cost of the necessary preparation
studies for such a drainage project would be provided by the presently
proposed project (Annex 12).
B. Development of the Balikh Basin
Background
8.        A detailed study of the feasibility of irrigation in the Balikh Basin
was carried out bv consultants from 1966-68 3/. The study included detailed
soil and topographic surveys, the establishment of experimental farms in the
project area, the preparation of irrigation suitability maps and preliminary
engineering drawings with canal and drain layouts, farm budget studies, crop
water requirement studies, etc. The study proposed a staged development be-
ginning with a pilot project area of 19,600 ha. The pilot area would initially
1/   "Report on the Investigations in the Euphrates Project Area, "NEDECO
October 1963.
2/   "An Agroeconomic and Socioeconomic Evaluation of the Euphrates Project,"
NEDECO August 1964.
3/   Irrigation and Drainage Project in the Euphrates Basin--the Balikh
Basin--Gibb and Kocks, 1967.



ANNEX 4
*                                                                         Page  3
be served by a temporary pump station pumping water directly from the Euphrates
River so that this area could be used to resettle some of the 65,000 people
who would be displaced from the area to be inundated by Lake Assad. Construc-
tion is now nearing completion on the pilot area.
The Irrigation Layout
9.        The proposed irrigation layout for the development of the Balikh
Basin consists of two large separate irrigation systems, the Lower Main Canal
system and the Upper Main Canal system. The Lower Main Canal system, which
would finally serve a total area of 102,500 ha net, would obtain water by
gravity from Lake Assad. The Upper Main Canal System would be supplied by
pumping water from Lake Assad through a head of 33.8 m. Water would be pumped
from both main canals to serve areas which cannot be served by gravity from
the canals.
Works Under Construction
10.       Four pilot areas covering 19,600 ha are presently under construction
and all are within gravity command of the proposed alignment of the Lower Main
Canal. The purpose of the pilot area is to provide experience with design
and construction of irrigation works in the Region, as well as agricultural
development and village settlement. The pilot area will also provide for the
resettlement of some of the people displaced by the filling of Lake Assad.
11.       The Swediyah Unit (1,400 ha) is situated in highlands adjacent to
the Euphrates River some 8 km downstream of the Euphrates Dam, and will be
fed by two stages of pumping from the Euphrates River until the section of
the Lower Main Canal adjacent to the unit is completed. Most of the unit
will then receive gravity supplies from the Lower Main Canal.  The Fayd Unit
(3,600 ha) is situated on the right bank of the Wadi el Fayd. Irrigation of
land in this unit started in 1973 and the unit is being used for a broad
range of exneriments by the staff of a INDP project which has been established
in the Balikh Basin since 1969. The Salhabiyah UTnit (8,600 ha) is situated
between the Wadi el Fayd and the Balikh River and is close to the town of
Raqqa. The llamrat IUnit (6,000 ha) lies further east close to the area of
volcanic soils. The latter two areas are close to completion and irrieation
is expected to start in them in 1974.
12.       The Fayd, Salhabiyah and Hamrat units have been designed according
to a general engineering plan which envisages the future construction of the
Lower Main Canal to feed the pilot area by gravity. Until this canal is con-
structed these areas will receive water from the Euphrates River via a tem-
porary pump station. However, due to the relative instability of the river
at the point of take-off of the pumped supplies, the security of the temporary
pumped supplies is not high.
13.       Apart from the pilot projects, work has also started on the construc-
tion of the gravity intake for the Lower Main Canal. The structure is being
constructed as part of the main dam construction contract.



ANNEX 4
Page  4
Development Plans
14.       The proposed project is included in the 1971-75 National Development
Plan. Following implementation of the project, high priority is given to com-
pletion of remaining areas that can be served by the Lower Main Canal. As
part of a UNDP financed project, detailed investigations are being carried out
in these areas. No firm program has yet been formulated for the construction
of the IJpper Main Canal.
0
0



*                                                        0                                                         0
SYRIAN ARAB REFUBLIC
BALIKH MRIGATION PROJECT
Climatic Data - Ragga - Mean Monthly Records
/1      %    /1        /1          /2            /2            /1/2
RairXall-   Relative-    Mean/-        Mean -Meair              Sunshine/      Winidt-     Evap. from/3
mms        humidity      temp.      maximum      milimuinm      hours       speed      open surface
m/sec.          mms
Janiuary        39.5          79.6        6.9         12.1          2.3         146.4         2.6            43
February        26.7          71.6        8.5         14.0          3.7         168.5         2.6            62
March           30.5          61.2       12.5         18.8          5.8         230.'7        3.3           133
April           22.5          52.9       17.8         24.         10.8         263.1         3.5           189
May             18.3         44.3        23.2         30.8         15.3         313.0         3.5           267
Ju.e             0.5         33.5        27.9         36.2         19.2         361.3         4.6           396
July              -          38.8        30.1         38.9         21.6         381.2         5.2           443
August            -           39.7       28.6         38.2         21.0         389.2         4.2           378
September        2.6!         13.3       25.3         34.1         16.7         330.5         3.1           252
October         21.8          9J4        19.6         28.4         12.1         263.8         2.1           164
Uoveptber       13.5          63.8       13.3         21.0          6.8         209.9         1.7             90
December        32.6         77.0         8.4         14.3          4.0         159.1         2.2            59
Total      203.5                                                                                       2,476
/1  Records 1955-70.
/2  Records 1959-68.
/3  Records 1959-66.






ANNEX 6
Page 1
0
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils
1.        A land classification of the project area has been prepared by
Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners and reproduced on maps at a scale of 1:25,000.
Although considered a semi-detailed classification, the survey was made in
greater detail in many places, with borings logged to segregate areas as small
as 5-10 ha. Wlhere significant, logs have been furnished with data on ECe,
EC5, pH, lime, gypsum, and ESP in addition to the physical characteristics
of soil texture, gravel, stones, gypsum layers, etc. Also, tests on perme-
ability, infiltration rate, and moisture-holding capacity have been carried
out at many locations.
A. Description of Land Classes
2.        Classes I, II and III.  These lands comprise an aggregate total of
30,800 ha within the net irrigable area of the project. They are suitable
for sustained good-to-high yields of most climatically adapted crops with
relatively low-to-minimal costs of management.  The Class I soils are deep,
well drained, moderately permeable soils with adequate raoisture-holding cap-
acity on smooth gently sloping lands. They are free of adverse conditions
such as salinity, alkalinity, stones or gravel. They occur most extensively
on the smooth terrace lands between Wadi el Fayd and the Balikh River, also
called the "island" area (linit I on Yap IBRD 1056ORT), and on the alluvial
flood plain of Wadi Balikh and other minor drainage ways. Their texture is
predominantly loam or clay loam on the surface, with some clay in the subsoil.
Permeabilities are generally in the low range permissible for Class I. In a
few of the Class I lands (near Tel Es Samen and in the pilot areas), map
notations indicate the advisability of drainage, but this should be achieved
at minimal costs.  The general fine surface texture will require careful ir-
rigation to achieve sufficient moisture penetration during the peak irrigation
season. This may necessitate deep pre-planting irrigation followed by more
frequent irrigations during the summer to achieve adequate penetration without
excess run-off.
3.        The Class II lands present moderate limitations in productivity and
require somewhat more difficult and costly management. Subclasses included
are 2s (soil limitations due to coarse texture or slight salinity), 2d (drainage
problems), and 2sd (soil and drainage limitations). The 2s lands occupy a few
small areas of soils of coarse texture and slight salinity associated with
highly saline volcanic soils, and a few scattered areas of fine-textured soils
with ECe's exceeding 4 mnhos/cm. The 2d lands occur extensively along Wadi
Balikh (and in the pilot areas), and consist of clay loam surface soils under-
lain by slowly permeable clays with rust mottling, indicating former conditions
0           of high water table.  The 2sd lands are confined to a few parcels of fine-
textured soils with subsoil salinity exceeding 4 mmhos/cm in the pilot area.



ANNEX 6
Pant 2 
Minor sodium problems may also require correction. Class II lands are well
adapted to most crops if provided with proper irrigation management, drainage,
and/or leaching. Cotton, grain and shallow-rooted forage crops should do
especially well.
4.        Occurrence of Class III lands is limited to the pilot area and to
one small area of the Wadi Balikh flood plain near Tel Es Samen. They are
characterized by slowly permeable clays, drainage, rust mottlings, and salinity
exceeding 16 mmhos/cm. Suitability of crops and management problems will be
similar to those of Class 2sd; however, more extensive drainage and leaching
may be required to reduce the higher salinity to acceptable levels.
5.        Class IVs.  These lands, comprising a total area of 4,200 ha, are
scattered throughout the terrace and upland areas, particularly near Bir Al
Hashim. They are gently sloping to moderately undulating and have either
gravelly (about 2,900 ha) or highly gypsiferous subsoils (about 1,300 ha).
These two conditions are similar in restricting moisture retention and eEC.
In addition,-the gypsiferous soils present potential problems of subsidence
and maintenance of ditches and slopes.
6.        The gypsiferous soils occur in scattered parcels rarely exceeding
50 ha and generally adjoining 4s gravelly soils (which also contain some
gypsum), class VI lands (unsuitable for irrigation), and sometimes class I
and II lands.  A few parcels of about 20 ha completely surrounded by Class
VI lands were excluded from the total of 1,300 ha.  The land surface is
smooth to gently undulating. Typical soil profiles include those of medium
surface texture and low gypsum content underlain by clay loams with visible
gypsum crystals, and soils of medium texture and moderate gypsum content to
depths of 50 to 75 cm underlain by highly gypsiferous material. Field ob-
servations and the Gibbs soil logs indicate that most of the lands are low
in gypsum to depths of 30 cm and contain generally less than 25% from 30-60
cm, with a few exceeding 25% within 1 m depth.
7.        Experience in other parts of the world, and particularly in the
southwestern US, indicates that the gypsum content of these soils is not
sufficient to prevent successful irrigated cropping. Nutrient imbalance from
gypsum per se is rare.  Moisture-holding capacity and CEC usually decrease
with increased gypsum contents, but no severe crop yield reductions should
occur if the gypsum content is less than 50% and if overlain by 30 to 45 cm
of medium-to-fine textured soil.
8.        Both gypsiferous and gravelly soils have therefore been included in
the project, although the original recommendation was to exclude the gypsiferous
soils. They appear to be suitable for cotton, wheat, alfalfa, and most other
field crops and some vegetables as well.  The relatively low moisture-holding
capacity of the subsoil will require frequent irrigations (e.g. 5" deliveries
at 10-day intervals). If land subsidence occurs, irrigation by sprinkling
may be advisable. In view of the adequate land slope and air movement, frost
hazards should not be severe; and fruits such as figs, olives, and grapes may
be grown.  Further guidance in the selection of crops would be available from
experimental work at Gharnata and Najd, where the same soils occur.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
9.        Class V.  These include about 7,200 ha of volcanic soils of high
salinity and sodium. They occupy smooth gently sloping areas adjoining the
rough basalt deposits from Mankar Garbi and l4ankar Sharqi. The soil surface
is covered with a thin deposit of dark gray lapilli. The soil profile shows
little genetic development, and consists of fine gravelly (lapilli) loams,
silt loams, and fine sandy loams, with no structural development beneath the
platy surface layers, and occasional lenses of nearly pure lapelli, 10-15 cm
thick, at depths of one meter or more.
10.       The soils are derived from a mixture of aeolian loamy deposits and
basaltic lapilli of high nephaline content. lIence, salinity and exchangeable
sodium are generally high and constitute the chief reclamation problem. In
extensive areas the ECe ranges from 7 mmhos/cm in the surface to 18 mmhos/cm
in the subsoil with corresponding ESP's ranging from 8 to 17%. In a few other
locations the surface ECe is 128 mmhos/cm, decreasing to 5 in the subsoil,
with the ESP remaining relatively constant at 11 to 10%. In a few rare loca-
tions subsoil ESP may be as high as 56%. The clay minerals include mont-
morillonite, with nearly equal proportions of kaolinite and various other
non-swelling minerals.
11.       Along a relatively low area extending from 2 to 8 km north of Mankar
Sharqi, the volcanic soils are predoninantly of clay loam texture with a platy
mildly alkaline surface and strongly alkaline subsoil with weakly developed
prismatic structure, resembling a solonetz profile. Recent analyses indicate
an ECe ot 88 mmhos/cm in the surface soils and ESP of 13-17%. In addition to
adverse profile conditions, these soils will also be subject to resalination
by percolation from higher lands, following irrigation. An area of about 700
ha is covered by these problem soils. At several locations, moreover, cemented
layers of volcanic ash, about 0.5 cm thick, individually, and 1-15 cm thick,
in total, have been observed at depths of 0.5-1.0 m. These particular soils
occur over an area of about 500 ha.
12.       The volcanic soils had originally been excluded from the project,
but following further field and laboratory investigations they are now con-
sidered relatively easily reclaimable, except for the two types of problem
soils (with cemented layers and high alkali contents) described above.
Initial leaching of salts should be accomplished rapidly because of the high
infiltration rates and low moisture-holding capacities of the predominantly
coarse-to-medium textured soils. With progressive leaching, permeability may
decrease in areas of high ESP. This may be readily corrected by the calcium
available in the Euphrates irrigation water or by applying gypsum from nearby
abundant native gypsum deposits. The clay mineralogy and light soil texture
would indicate low CEC and gypsum requirements; however, some of the laboratory
analyses have shown CEC's of 20-25 me/100g, with ESP's of 50%.   Gypsum require-
ments could therefore range as high as 40T/ha, but this would be exceptional,
as laboratory tests suggest that the ESP may be reduced by leaching without
added calcium.
0



ANNEX 6
Page 4
13.       A variety of crops may be grown following reclamation of the volcanic
soils by simple leaching. Alfalfa or sugarbeets appear best adapted because
of their salt tolerance, deep rooting habits, and ability to utilize the low
moisture capacity per unit depth. Other suitable crops would include cotton,
wheat, and certain vegetables because of their shallower rooting habit requir-
ing more frequent irrigations. With salinity control, relatively salt-tolerant
fruits such as figs, olives, and grapes might also be considered, since the
ground slope and air movement should decrease the frost hazards. Principal
management considerations will be leaching, possible calcium amendments and
proper irrigation management. Sprinkling should be considered as a means of
efficient leaching and optimizing irrigation efficiency. No unusual nutri-
tional problems have been identified, but the predominantly light-textured
soils would normally require relatively frequent fertilizer applications.
14.       As for the problem soils mentioned above, ripping to break up the
cemented layers might provide adequate drainage; otherwise shallow rooted,
salt-tolerant crops might even be grown. The fine textured sodic soil would
be best adapted to salt-tolerant grasses for pasture.
B. Continuing Investigations Required
15.       During the development of the project there will be a need for (a)
more detailed soil maps of the project area necessary for the proper layout
of land-holdings and irrigation and drainage networks, as well as a more ac-
curate delineation of problem areas and soil conditions affecting land manage-
ment, such as high salinity or alkalinity, poor drainage, and shallow soil
profiles; and (b) continued applied research on drainage, leaching, soil amend-
ments, fertilizer requirements, crop selection and irrigation management.
16.       Detailed soil mapping.  Mapping is in progress and should be con-
tinued throughout the area. In uniform soils with no apparent problems such
as in the "island area", one boring per 10 ha may suffice; in complex problem
areas, one or more borings per ha may be needed.
17.       In potential drainage problem areas, deep borings to barrier layers
should be made together with field permeability tests to supplement the data
from the Gibb report, and observation wells should be installed to establish
the fluctuation in salinity and groundwater. These should be made frequently
enough to permit a calculation of the drain spacing necessary to maintain
water tables below four feet. Preliminary data may be gathered continually,
but meaningful calculations cannot be made until some irrigation experience
is gained and subsurface flow volumes established. In the volcanic soils,
particular attention should be given to the occurrence of cemented strata,
restricting root and water penetration, and a more accurate delineation of
the highly saline and alkali areas.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
18.       Applied research.  Research on leaching and alkali reclamation
(Khatuniyah) 1/, management of gypsiferous soils (Gharnata), adapted cross,
soil and irrigation management on shallow calcic-gypsiferous soils (Nayd), and
field crop production on saline soils (FAO - Wadi el Fayd), should be con-
tinued. Results at Najd indicate a potential for fruit-growing, and con-
tinued research should establish desirable irrigation heads, length of run
and duration of application for shallow soils. At Gharnata, tests to be
started in 1973 would establish the potential for wheat, cotton, and other
crops on highly gypsiferous soils. Work at Najd and Wadi el Fayd demonstrates
the need for adequate land preparation and pre-leaching.
C. Experimental Program, Volcanic Soils
19.       As no experimental work has been done yet on the volcanic soils in
the Euphrates Basin, a separate experiment station should be set up immediately
for that purpose. The experimental program should include the following:
(a) Field leaching
20.       It will be necessary to determine the required quantities of leaching
water and calcium amendments (if any) before proceeding with the development of
the volcanic soils. Available laboratory tests suggest successful control of
sodium by leaching alone and a minor degree of resalination by nephaline
weathering. This must be confirmed in the field by application of water to a
limited area until infiltration rates and EC approach a steady state, plus
analyses of ESP before and after leaching. This would indicate the leaching
quantities required, the decreased permeability due to sodium deflocculation
as EC decreases, and the quantity of calcium required for correction. Analyses
of EC and ESP should be made again on the same site one year later to observe
the rate of resalination and increased ESP due to nephaline weathering.
21.       In the low-lying area of highly saline-sodic fine-textured soils
north of Mankar Sharqi, leaching plots alone will not be conclusive. It will
be necessary, in addition, to evaluate drainage conditions and to study the
effect of highly saline-sodic percolating waters from the irrigation of higher
adjacent lands. It is advisable to defer permanent development of this area
until adjoining lands are developed and these conditions can be evaluated.
22.       As more detailed delineations are made of the soils underlain by
cemented layers, it will be necessary to evaluate their effect upon leaching,
reclamation, and crop root penetration. Since the layers may not be completely
continuous throughout, it is possible that no special treatment will be required
in addition to leaching, possible Ca amendments, and selection of shallow rooted
salt-tolerant crops. Where the layers are shallow and not too thick, ripping
and subsoiling alone might be sufficient.
1/   Names in parenthesis refer to experiment stations, mentioned in Annex 8.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
(b) Determination of proper soil and water management
23.       The chief soil needs are the above mentioned leaching and possible
calcium amendments, build-up of organic matter, nitrogen, and improved tilth
through legume growth, protection against wind erosion through stubble man-
agement, raising of alfalfa, and wind breaks, and fertility management. Ir-
rigation water management will require consideration of continuing leaching
needs (generally achieved through pre-planting irrigations), proper timing
and quantities of water applied, optimum control of water, and method of
irrigation.
24.       Some studies will be needed to select the most desirable method of
irrigation. The lands are sufficiently smooth to permit efficient irrigation
with gravity methods, using short runs and large heads to avoid excessive
losses through deep percolation. Sprinkling might also be considered as
providing the best control of irrigation losses, providing that wind patterns
are not too erratic or severe and that a fairly continuous flow of water is
available. Sprinkling also offers the advantage, particularly on fine-textured
soils, of more efficient leaching per unit of applied water.
(c) Selection of adapted crops
25.       In general, deep-rooted crops are advisable in coarse-textured soils
to utilize the limited available moisture per unit depth and avoid irrigations
so frequent as to tax the irrigation system capacity. In addition, if salinity
control proves difficult, emphasis should be placed on salt-tolerant crops such
as alfalfa or sugarbeets. If the system allows more frequent irrigations,
shallower rooting salt-tolerant crops such as cotton, wheat and certain veg-
etables are also suitable. If salinity is fairly well controlled, various
fruit crops could be grown as the area has favorable air drainage and frost
protection.
(d) Fertility management
26.       Data from the Gibb report indicate adequate levels of available
P and K and low levels of N. This can be corrected by introducing legumes
into the crop rotations and by the application of fertilizers. No unusual
problems are foreseen; however, with the coarse-textured soils, nitrate leach-
ing may necessitate frequent light fertilizer application or the use of urea
or other slow-release forms of nitrogen, if economical. During the develop-
mental work on crops and irrigation, routine soil tests on available nutrients
correlated with leaf tissue analyses would provide the guidance needed on
fertility management.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Development
A. Existing Situation Without Project
1.        Agriculture and livestock production are the main activities in the
project area, but on a very extensive basis. Rainfed wheat and barley are the
main crops planted at a maximum of 20,000 ha in any year. The area harvested
and yields vary greatly, dependent on the winter rainfall. When rainfall is
inadequate--which, on the average, is the case in one out of each two years--
the grain crop is not harvested but grazed. In years of adequate rainfall,
yields of 800 kg of wheat and 1,200 kg of barley per ha are obtained.
2.        Irrigated farming is confined to about 2,800 ha of lands adjacent
to the Wadi Balikh where gravity supply is available in the winter and to a
limited extent by pumping from the Wadi balikh or from wells in summertime.
Both wheat and cotton receive limited, and usually inadequate, irrigation
water by these means.  Yields average 1,800 kg of wheat and 1,500 kg of cotton
per ha.  Part of the irrigated farming in the project area and all of that ir-
rigated by pumping from the river is done at Tel es Samen farm, a cooperative
farm set up by the Ministry of Industry (Table 1).
3.        Livestock production within the project area is based on about 22,000
breeding ewes of fat-tailed Awassi sheep. Feeding is done by grazing on wheat
and cotton stubbles and grasses and weeds on the rangelands. Very little sup-
plementary feed in the form of grain or forage is being given. The major
lambing period is late winter and little flock segregation is practiced.
Winter lambing ewes are milked and shearing is done once a year, usually in
the spring. About 900 tons of milk and 45 tons of wool are produced annually,
while culling of ewes, at the rate of 1 per 10, combined with an offtake of
2.3 lambs per 10 breeding ewes, yield about 2,200 cull ewes at 28 kg live-
weight each and 5,000 lambs at 26 kg liveweight each from the total sheep herd
sustained by the gross project area of about 48,000 ha (Table 2). Livestock
health is poor, although veterinary services are provided by the Ministry of
Agriculture at Raqqa in the form of inoculations against disease and some
treatment of diseased animals. Chicken pox, foot and mouth disease, and black-
leg are the major sheep diseases. Net income derived from the sheep herd in
the project area is about LS 0.8 million.  It is estimated that net income
derived from additional livestock, owned by the present population in the
project area but grazed on about 90,000 ha of rangeland outside the project
area, amounts to an additional LS 1.1 million.
0



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        Costs of both crop and livestock production are minimal.  In the
case of cereals, the cost is confined to that for land preparation and plant-
ing as no other inputs are used. Production costs for irrigated wheat and
cotton are higher as they include also the cost of fertilizers. In the case
of livestock, costs are limited to the purchase of some supplementary stock
feed such as barley grain, straw or cotton stubbles, and veterinary services.
The combined gross value of crop and livestock production output within the
project area and that derived from livestock grazing outside the project area
minus production costs gives an estimated total net value of production of
LS 4.6 million, equivalent to an average net family income of about LS 923
per annum on the basis of 5,000 families presently living within the project
area (Annex 24).
B. Potential Development With the Project
5.        Irrigation would enable the growing of a large variety of food,
industrial and fodder crops, vegetables, and fruits as well as a gradual
increase in livestock production. Choice of crops and crop rotations would
be largely determined by the type and quality of soils and several different
farm types are, therefore, proposed as follows:
(a)  Farm Type A
Landholding area: 5.0 ha + 0.3 ha communal land
Soils:              Class I, II and III
Crops:              Cotton, wheat, maize, berseem, sesame,
potatoes, alfalfa, vegetables and fruits
Remarks:  (i)       This farm type, on the better quality soils,
allows the greatest degree of crop diversi-
fication as well as the highest cropping
intensity (130% in fifth year, 145% thereafter).
(ii)      Maize is gradually introduced in rotation with
wheat, increasing in area from 10% in the first,
to 20% in the second, and 30% in the third year.
(iii)      Potatoes are introduced into the cropping
pattern after full development has been reached
(sixth year and onwards).
(iv)      Alfalfa, vegetables and fruits will be grown
on communal land during the first five years
of development; thereafter, alfalfa and veg-
etables will be included in basic farm plan
with consequent enlargement of the area under
each.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(v)      The number of breeding ewes to be supported
by this farm type will be 7 for the first 5
years and 10 thereafter, when the area under
alfalfa is increased (see iv).
(b) Farm Type B
Landholding area:   6.0 ha + 0.3 ha communal land
Soils:               Class IV and heavy volcanic soils
Crops:               Cotton, wheat, berseem, alfalfa,
vegetables and fruits
Remarks:  (i)        Choice of crops and crop rotations
places the emphasis on integrated crop/
livestock production through devoting
30% of the farm area to fodder produc-
tion, supporting at least 20 breeding
ewes and followers. Cropping intensity
is 120%.
(ii)       As alfalfa production is an integral
part of the basic farm plan, only
vegetables and fruits will be grown on
the communal land.
(c) Farm Type C
Landholding area:   5.0 ha
Soils:               Light volcanic
Crops:               Groundnuts, wheat, alfalfa, vegetables
and fruits
Remarks:  (i)        As the volcanic soils are the last to be
provided with irrigation facilities, i.e.,
in 1981--the eighth year of the project
development--sufficient experience should
have been gained in the project area with
the settling and resettling of new farms
as well as with irrigated crop production,
to abolish the system of communal land as
a "trial ground" for alfalfa, fruits and
vegetables. Consequently, the basic crop-
ping pattern would include more intensive
production of fruits and vegetables most
suited to the typical volcanic soils.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(ii)       The number of breeding ewes supported by
this farm type would be 7.
(iii)       Cropping intensity would be 110%, but
opportunities would exist to increase this
percentage by growing more than one veg-
etable crop per season.
6.        In spite of the limited number of different types of farms and crop
rotations proposed, a great deal of flexibility could be exercised. The farm-
ing pattern could become more and more integrated with livestock production,
while the raising of sheep might eventually make place for that of cattle
with emphasis on milk and meat production. The surplus of fodder crops and
especially of alfalfa would find a ready market in Aleppo for the existing
sheep-fattening operations in that city. Within the various cropping patterns,
other crops could be substituted for the ones proposed. For instance, sugar
beets could also be introduced in the crop rotations, depending on the es-
tablishment of a sugar beet factory in the area. If their introduction
would not materialize in the present project, it is expected that their cul-
tivation would be included in crop rotations to be followed in the develop-
ment of additional areas in the Balikh Valley. In the proposed cropping
patterns, berseem has been included in rotation with summer crops as a
second forage crop.  Berseem has been chosen over its possible substitute
of vetch/barley because of its beneficial effect on saline soils.
7.        Expected crop yields following development are given in Table 3.
It is assumed that maize, potatoes anid vegetables reach maximum yields in
the third year of development; wheat, berseem, sesame, groundnuts, and alfalfa
in the fourth year; cotton in the fifth year; while fruits (mostly apricots
and plums) will start bearing in the fourth and reach full production capacity
in the seventh year. Table 1 gives total production at full development based
on these figures.
8.        In the calculation of livestock feed requirements (Table 2), it is
assumed that an adult sheep requires 1.4 Animal Feed Units (UF) per day and
that dry forage hay (alfalfa, berseem) contains 500 UF per ton, grain (maize,
wheat, barley) 1,000 UF per ton, and stubble (cotton, maize, barley, wheat)
230 UF per ton. At least half of the feed requirements would be supplied
through forage, while the balance would be made up by feeding with straw and
stubble grazing.  If there would be a shift from sheep to cattle raising, feed
requirements of cattle would be estimated at 14 UT per head per uay.
9.        The following assumptions are made in the design of the development
pattern (Table 4):
(a) existing dry land farming would continue as before through
the first four project years and then gradually decrease and
finally disappear in 1980 when project works will cover most
of the area and make dry land farming impractical;



ANNEX 7
Page 5
(b) irrigation would be provided as of 1977, according to the
schedule in Table 4; establishment of farms would follow the
same schedule but settlers would come into the area one or
more years ahead of that time (see Annex 15); and
(c)  the livestock population wculd be made up of the 22,000
breeding ewes originally in the area and the about 60,000
ewes brought in from the reservoir area; nevertheless,
upgrading of the present flocks may prove to be necessary,
and the purchase cost of new ewes is, therefore, taken into
account (Table 2).
0






SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Area, Yields and Production of Crops Without and With Project
Without Project                With Project (At Full DeveloDment - 1986)
Crops              Area      Yield    Production        Area      Yield    Production    Incremental
(Ha) (ton per ha)    (ton)          (Ha)  (ton per ha)   (ton)        Production
L,totton (irrigated)       1,400       1.5       2,100        16,493       2.75      45,356        43,256
Jheat (irrigated)        1,400       1.8)      6,520        13,803       4.0       55,212        48,692
Wheat (rainfed)         10,000        .4)                        _         _            _             _
Barley (rainfed)        10,000        .6       6,000             -         -            -        (6,000)
Maize                        -         -           -         8,715       5.0       43,575        43,575
Berseem                      _-                    -         4,273       8.0       34,184        34,184
Sesame                                 -           -         2,905       1.0        2,905         2,905
Groundnuts                   _         -           _         1,500       3.0        4,500         4,500
Alfalfa                      _-                    -         3,018      15.0       45,270        45,270
Potatoes                     _-                    -         1,453      12.0       17,436        17,436
Vegetables                   _-                    -         2,448      17.0       41,616        41,616
Fruit                        _-                    -         1,109      12.0       13,308        13,308
Total cultivated area   22,800                              55,717
Total net area          48,ooo                              41,000
Cropping intensity         48%                                136%
(Dg



ANNEX 7
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                                        Table 2
BALIKH IRRIGATION ROJECT.
Livestock Development, Cost of Production and Return
(Data for 100 Breeding Ewes)
Without Project                          With Project
Category               Average Year             Year 1          2        3         4         5
Production
Cull ewes (number)                   10                   16          21        22        22        22
Cull ewes (kg LW)                  280                   512         735       858       924       990
Lambs      (number)                  23                   27          30        31        31        31
Lambs      (kg LW)                 598                   702         870    1,023    1,116    1,209
Milk       (kg)                  4,200                 4;875       5,600    6,300    6,300    7,000
- Wool       (kg)                    205                   228         260       260       260       260
Value of Production (LS) -
Cull ewes (@,LS 1.8/kg)            504                   922       1,323    1,544    1,663    1,782
Lambs      (@ LS 2.1/kg)         1,256                 1,474       1,827    2,148    2,344    2,539
Milk       (@ LS .45/kg)         1,890                 2,194       2,520    2,835    2,835    3,150
Wool      (@ LS 3.0/kg)             615                  684         780       780       780       780
Total                          4,265                 5,274       6,450    7,307    7,622    8,251
Cost of Production (LS)
Feed costs:
Supplementary                    400 
Alfalfa and berseem-z2              -                1,010       2,020    2,270    2,530    2,530
Veterinary                          100                  200         200       200       200       200
Cost of ewes/3                     240                   240         240       240       240       240
Total                            740                 1,450       2,460    2,710    2,970    2,970
Net Return (LS)
Per 100 breeding ewes            3,525                 3,824       3,990    4,597    4,652    5,281
Per breeding ewe                 35.25                 38.24       39.90    45.97    46.52    52.81
/1  Farmgate (financial) prices in 1973 (equivalent to economic prices in 1973).
/2  Cost of alfalfa and berseem equivalent to production cost of 2 ha alfalfa + 3 ha berseem;
which, at full development, is equivalent to (2 x 15) + (3 x 8) = 54 tons dry forage =
54 x 500 = 27,000 Animal Feed Units (UF). Total UF requirement for 100 sheep = 100 x 365 x 1.4
= 51,100. Balance of UF (51,100 - 27,000 = 24,100) will be made up by stubble grazing and straw
of cotton, wheat, maize and sesame, produced on sheep-owner's farm.
/3 At LS 12 per ewe, averaged over five years.



ANNEX 7
Tabl.e 3
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION f'ROJECT
lrojected Crop Yields
(Kg per ha)
Crops                              Year of Development
*2         3          45                    6
Cotton            1,800      2,000      2,250      2,500      2,750      2,750
Wheat              3,400      3,600.    3,800      4,000      4,000      4,000
Maize             3,000      4,000      5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000
Berseem           5,000      6,000      7,000      8,000      8,000      8,000
Sesame               700        800        900     1,000      1,000      1,000
Groundnuts        2,000      2,300      2,700      3,000      3,000      3,000
Alfalfa           8,000    10,000    12,000    15,000    15,000    15,000
Potatoes         10,000    11,000    12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000
Vegetables       1h,000    16,000    17,000    17,000    17,000    17,000
Fruits                 -          -          -     4,000       8,000    12,000
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BAtIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Development Pattern of Farm Establishment and Agricultural Production
Category                        1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985+
Existing Production
Irrigated area (ha):                          ,                                  12
Cotton                                1 40OL- 1,400   1,400   1,400         90'    400         -        -       -
Wheat                                 1,400-  1,400   1,400   1,400         goo      400       -        -       -        -        -        -
Dryland (rainfed) production (ha):
Wheat                                10,000   10,000  10,000  10,000   6,000/2 2,000           -        -       -        -        -        -
Barley                               10.000   10,000  10.000  10.000             22000         -       -        -        -        -        -
Total area under production            22,800   22,800  22,800  22,800  13,800   4,800           -        -       -        -        -        -
No. of breeding ewes supported
by grazing of 48,000 ha gross
project area, including.area                                                   /2
under crop production                22,000   22,000  22,000  22,000  12,000   4,000           -        -
New Development
Net irrigated area (ha):                                                                                              /3
Class 1,2 and 3 soils                                            4,400   8,800   8,800   8,800           - (30,800)
Class 4 soils                                                      600   1,200   1,200   1,200           _ ( 4,200)
Volcanic soils (heavy)                                                -       -        -        -   3,000 ( 3,000)
Volcanic soils (light)                                                -       -        -        -   3,000 ( 3,000)
Total, by year                                                 5,000  10,000  10,000  10,000   6,000
Total, accumulated                                             5,000  15,000  25,000  35,000  41,000  41,000  41,000  41,000  41,000
/4
Net area settled (no. of farms):
Class 1, 2 and 3 soils                                             830   1,660   1,660   1,660           - ( 5,810)
Class 4 soils                                                       95      190      190      190        - (   665)
Volcanic soils (heavy)                                                -       -        -        -     475 (   475)
Volcanic soils (light)                                                -     _          -        -     600 (   600)
Total, by year                                                   925   1,850   1,850   1,850   1,075           -
Total, accumulated                                               925   2,775   4,625   6,475   7,550   7,550   7,550   7,550   7,550
Livestock population:
No. of breeding ewes supported by
irrigated crops                         -         -       -   7,710  23,130  38,550  53,970  67,670  70,160  75,140  80,120  85,100
Total no. of ewes                    22,000   22,000  22,000  29,710  35,130  42,550  53,970  67,670  70,160  75,140  80,120  85,100
LI Including 400 ha of Tel es Samen cooperative farm.
/2 Agricultural production on dryland and irrigated area will be gradually absorbed by irrigated project area.
/3 Accumulated totals in parentheses.
/4  Proposed size and distribution of farms:
Farm Size
(ha)                                                                                                     oj.
Class 1, 2 and 3 soils           5.0 (major crops) + 0.3 (for alfalfa, fruits and vegetables)  =  5.3
Class 4 soils.                   6.0 (major crops including alfalfa) + 0.3 (for fruits and vegetables)  =  6.3
Volcanic soils - heavy)
Volcanic soils - light           5.0 (major crops, including alfalfa, fruits and vegetables)
*                                                                             * O 



*                                                                                     r    
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Area and Crop Production During Development Period
Crops             1977     1978     1979     1980     1981     1982     1983     1984     1985      1986     1987
-----------------------------------------(ha)-----------------------__________-_____________
Cotton                    2,360    7,080  11,800   16,520   17,945  17,738   17,323   16,908   16,493   16,493   16,493
Wheat                     1,888    5,664    9,440   13,216   15,256   15,048   14,633   14,218   13,803   13,803   13,803
Maize                         0      415    1,660    3,320    4,980    5,810    6,225    7,055    7,885    8,715    8,715
Berseem                     529   1,587    2,645    3,703    4,273    4,273    4,273    4,273    4,273    4,273    4,273
Sesame                      415    1,245    2,075    2,905    2,905    2,905    2,905    2,905    2,905    2,905    2,905
Groundnuts                    0        0        0        0    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500
Alfalfa                     140      420      700      980    1,565    1,773    2,187    2,602    3,018    3,018    3,018
Potatoes                      0        0        0        0        0      208      623    1,038    1,453    1,453    1,453
Vegetables                   92      267      452      637      995    1,204    1,618    2,032    2,448    2,448    2,448
Fruits                      102      306      510      714    1,109    1,109    1,109    1,109    1,109    1,109    1,109
Total:
Area cultivated       5,526   16,984   29,282   41,995   50,528   51,568   52,396   53,640   54,887   55,717   55,717
Area developed       (5,000) (15,000) (25,000) (35,000) (41,000) (41,000) (41,000) (41,000) (41,000) (41,000) (41,000)
Cropping intensity (%)      110      113      117      120      123      126      128      131      134       136      136
---       -  -  -   -  -  --          ---(ton)---------------- --------- ---------- ---------
Cotton                    4,248  13,216   23,246   34,456   40,915   44,170   45,746   46,140   45,356   45,356   45,356
Wheat                     6,419   19,635   33,606   48,333   57,535   58,621   58,124   56,872   55,212   55,212   55,212
Maize                         0    1,245    5,810   13,280   21,580   27,390   31,125   35,275   39,425   43,575   43,575
Berseem                   2,645    8,464   15,341   23,276   29,300   31,986   33,614   34,184   34,184   34,184   34,184
Sesame                      290      913   1,619    2,407    2,656    2,822    2,905    2,905    2,905    2,905    2,905
Groundnuts                    0        0        0        0    3,000    3,450    4,050    4,500    4,500    4,500    4,500
Alfalfa                   1,120    3,640    6,720   10,500   17,140   22,822   31,057   39,038   45,270   45,270  145,270
Potatoes                      0        0        0        0        0    2,075    6,432   11,205   16,185   17,015   17,436   . >
Vegetables                1,295    4,070    7,122   10,268   15,688   19,472   26,045   32,892   39,948   41,192   41,616  
Fruits                        0        0        0      408    1,632    3,672    6,120    9,332   11,728   13,308   13,308  
_                                                                            -                vr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-






ANNEX 8
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Experiment Stations
1.        There are four existing experiment stations immediately adjacent to
the project area (Najd, Qortoba, Raqqa, and Khatuniyah) and one in the pilot
area (the FAO/UNDP station in Wadi el Fayd), while three more stations are
under establishment (Gharnata, Salhabiyah and Eshbirija).
Naid (Formerly Bellaneh)
2.        This station, established in 1965 by the consultants (Alexander
Gibb and Partners) for water duty studies, became a multipurpose station in
1968 with an expanded area of 65 ha. The soils of this station are representa-
tive of those of a large part of the Balikh Basin, including those classified
as Class IV (gravelly and gypsiferous soils). The experimental program in-
cludes varietal trials on field crops, water duty trials, and trials with
various cultural practices and cropping rotations.  Crops included in the
program are cotton, alfalfa, sugar beet, berseem, wheat, peanuts, sunflower,
beans, onions, maize and a variety of vegetables. An area of 20 ha was
recently added to the station for the growing of tree crops (apricots, peaches
and plums) and grapes.
Qortoba (Formerly Qurbatiyeh)
3.        This small (6 ha) station was established in 1966, also for water
duty trials. It is located near the Najd station but because its soils are
representative of those of the lower lands on the Euphrates River, the same
water duty experiments carried out at Najd were duplicated here. Water duty
trials have been discontinued recently and the station has been transformed
into a forest nursery.
Khatuniyah
4.        This is a 10-ha station started in 1969 on soils representative
of saline lands close to the river.  The experimental work program is directed
towards problems of reclamation and management of saline soils.
Ragga Research Station
5.        This station, with an area of 25 ha, belongs to the Ministry of
Agriculture but a large part of it is loaned to and under the direction of
GADEB. The soils on this station are again representative of the lower lands
of the Euphrates, but with a higher percentage of sand than at Qortoba.  The



ANNEX 8
Page 2
work program at this station is similar to that at Najd, with emphasis on crop
rotations and the use of agricultural machinery in cultivating and harvesting
of wheat, cotton and berseem. A fairly large selection of vegetables is also
grown on this station.
Wadi el Fayd
6.        This FAO/UNDP station is only in its first year of operation 1/ since
water did not become available until early this year in the pilot area. It
is a multipurpose station on soils representative of the alluvial lowlands
and low terrace lands in the Wadi. The research program includes water duty
trials, trials on land preparation and pre-leaching of saline soils, and a
large number of varietal and rotation trials. Crops included in the program
are cotton, wheat, maize, fodder crops, soybeans, and cow peas.
Gharnata
7.        Soils are representative of a wide range of gypsiferous soils with
varying contents of gypsum in the subsoil as well as in the topsoil. Recla-
mation and utilization of gypsum soils and their behavior under irrigation
will be studied.
Salhabiyah Field Station
8.        This station, partly located in the Salhabiyah pilot area, will
have as major objective the application of experimental results obtained
elsewhere on a field scale. The area allocated to the station is 300 ha.
Eshbiriya Livestock Station
9.        This station is also located in the pilot area and 325 ha are
now under establishment. Barns have been constructed and there will be
facilities for 600 head of cattle. The research program will concentrate
on the study of performance of imported breeds of cattle. The station will
also be used for the demonstration of improved methods of animal feeding
and milk production. Following establishment of the herd on the station,
consideration will be given to starting large-scale forage trials under
sprinkler irrigation.
Proposed Station for Volcanic Soils
10.       Under the project, it is proposed to set up an additional station
in the volcanic soils area to study methods of reclamation and irrigation on
those particular soils. A brief summary of the suggested program for the
station is given in the annex on soils (Annex 6).
1/   The UNDP Pilot Irrigation Project (SYR522) was started in 1970, but
experimental work was carried out at the Najd and Qortoba stations
until water became available in Wadi el Fayd.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Extension and Education
Agricultural Extension
1.        Extension is at present the responsibility of the Ministry of Agri-
culture, but no well-defined extension program exists in the country. Agri-
cultural engineers, agronomists, and veterinarians and other agriculturally
trained people are provided by the Ministry to the various regional Directo-
rates to deal with an assortment of tasks such as plant disease control,
research at experiment stations, demonstration activities, supervision of
cooperatives and of credit, veterinary services, supervision of credit, and
training of organized groups of farmers, e.g., in improved methods of cotton
growing. For instance, temporary extension units, composed of an engineer
and an agricultural supervisor are formed during the cotton season to supply
technical assistance to the farmers, including spraying of cotton and giving
advice on fertilizer applications. Similar teams are used for plant disease
control in potatoes and sugar beets.  Production organizations, such as the
Cotton Marketing Organization, the Wheat Marketing Organization, and the Meat
Organization, collaborate with the Ministry of Agriculture in various produc-
tion-oriented training activities. Responsibility for this type of extension
in the project area rests now with the Director of Agriculture in Raqqa, but
will eventually be transferred to GADEB.
2.        The Agricultural Sector of GADEB is already involved in agricultural
extension, including training programs for farmers and technical personnel.
In this framework GADEB has initiated its first intensive on-the-job training
program for selected farmers and village leaders from the inundated area who
will be resettled in the pilot project. Other training programs to be ini-
tiated include training of technicians in animal husbandry and the use of
agricultural chemicals as well as of tractor drivers, machine operators, and
irrigators. Experiment stations in the project area, especially that run by
FAO/UNDP in Wadi el Fayd, will serve as main demonstration centers for irri-
gated crop production. Finally, literacy courses will be given in cooperation
with the Ministry of Education.
3.        To alleviate the shortage of qualified and experienced technicians
to train and supervise extension personnel in GADEB, a few experienced men
from the Ministry may be transferred to GADEB. In general, however, recruits
will be drawn from recent graduates of the universities and agricultural
technical schools in the country.
Agricultural Education
4.        Training of agriculturalists in Syria is provided at three levels.
Students may major in agriculture at the regular high school level. Graduates



ANN ^ Y9
Page 2
of these schools become low level agricultural technicians. At the intermediate
level, there are 13 agricultural technical schools, one in each governorate,
with a four-year study program. Each year a total of about 300-400 students
graduate from these schools and may be employed as agents of the Ministry of
Agriculture for some of the tasks described in para 1, or they may become
agents for the various service cooperatives. In order to become full-fledged
extension workers, these agricultural school graduates must follow special
training courses in methods of demonstration, use of audio-visual equipment,
etc. At the university level, there are agricultural faculties in Damacus,
Aleppo, Latakia from which about 150 students graduate each year. Enrollment
at the universities has greatly increased over the last few years (Latakia has
been in existence only for the last two years) and the number of graduates is,
therefore, expected to increase considerably in the near future. Present
student enrollment in the agricultural faculties are: 1,600 in Damascus, 700
in Aleppo and 400 in Latakia. University graduates are usually employed by
the Ministry of Agriculture at the Ministry headquarters in Damascus, or at
the Directorate level in one of the governorates. In addition to the above,
there are a few smaller, more specialized schools such as the Veterinary
School in Damascus and the Agricultural Mission School in Qammishli, where
specialized training is given in such subjects as artificial insemination
and the raising of specific crops, respectively. The number of graduates of
each of these schools may be anywhere from 20 to 40 each year.
5.        In general, the level of education appears to be adequate and the
number of graduates more than sufficient to fill the vacancies which will be
opening up during implementation of the Euphrates Irrigation Project and other
development projects in the Euphrates Basin. Staff requirements for the
project would be: 60 field agents, 10 extension supervisors, and about 7
specialists.



Table 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit Requirements in Project Area
(LS '000)
Year                Production Costs        Credit Requirementsa
1977                      2,876               -      1,1470
1978                      9,003                      4,600
1979                     15,977                      8,165
1980                     23,720                     12,125
1981                     29,638                     15,150
1982                     31,971                     16,340
1983                     34,042                    17,400
1984                     35,949                    18,375
1985                     370374                    19,100
1986                     38,183                    19,515
1987                     38,246                    19,550
1988+                    38,246                    19,550
/1 Based on credit requirement/production cost ratio at full
develoument, i.e., 19,548/38,2146 = 51.1)% (see Table 2).



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Costs of Production at Full Development
Fert  iser                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sub-total           Credit
FerMitaer    Other          Machine    Hired       Sales                              2 Colurns                        Requirement
Crop       Seedi   Chemicals    Materials    Operation   Labor&   Commission   Interest   Contingenc    1, 2 & 3    Total            Area   (Cola 9xIl)
-------------------------------------------------------(IS/ha)----------------------------------------- - ----    (Ha)    (' IS)
(1)        (2)          (3)           (4)        (5)        (6)          (7)          (8)          (9)        (10)      (11)
Cotton            10          285          45           415      (150l4         0          10           40           340        805    16,493      5,608
Wheat             35          195           80          205         0           0            5          25           310        545    13,803      4,279
Maize             10          290          80           225         0           0          10           30           380        645      8,715     3,312
Berseem          100          135           5           210         0           0           7           23           240        480      4,273     1,026
Sesame            10          125          15           230         0           0           5           20           150        405      2,905        436
Groundnuts        30          180          80           220         0           0          10           25           290        545      1,500       435
Alfalfa           30           65            0    :     420          0          0            5          25            95        545      3,018        287
Potatoes         250          340         200           290         0           0          25           55           790      1,160      1,453     1,148
Vegetables        80          330         150           385       (200)       145           15          45           560      1,150      2,448     1,371
Fruits           100          230         315           530       (300)       210           35          55           645      1,475      1,109        715
18,617
Contingency (5%)         931
Total                 19.548
/ Hired labor in addition to family labor.
L2  Contingency - 5% of production cost, exclusive of interest.
a  Hired labor requirement when harvesting is done by hand, in which case cost of machinery operation would be reduced by about
the sane amount in LS per ha as indicated for hired labor.                                                                                             D X
4       4



ANNEX 11
Page 1
SYRIAL ARAB REPUBLIC
bALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Description
General Description
1.        The principal features of the project are:
(a) a main supply canal;
(b) irrigation distribution system including pumping facilities
and associated power lines and facilities, and on-farm devel-
opment of about 41,000 ha (net). About 10,000 ha would be
served by pumping from the gravity supply system;
(c) surface drainage facilities;
(d)  procurement of farm machinery and equipment for:  supervision;
operation and maintenance; and extension (Annex 19);
(e) roads and infrastructure for villages;
(f) maintenance and service centers; and
(g) consulting services (Annex 12).
Main Supply Canal
2.        The main supply canal comprises the Lower Main Canal (L.M.C.) and
its extension the Shininah Main Canal (S.M.C.). It would take off from the
headworks which are being constructed in the left embankment of the Euphrates
Dam. With a design capacity at the head of the canal of 140 m3/sec the main
supply canal could ultimately serve an area of about 102,500 net ha of which
some 26,000 ha are already irrigated or will be irrigated at the time of com-
pletion of the canal, by pumping from the Euphrates River. Of the remaining
76,000 ha that could be served by the canal, 41,000 ha comprise the proposed
project and 35,000 ha would remain to be developed at a later stage.
3.        The specific areas that would be served by the main supply canal,
according to the general engineering plan for development in the Balikh Basin
are as follows:
0



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Development Areas to be Served by the Lower Main Canal
Development Area                         Area in net ha    Status
The Project Area                            41,000           The Project
L.M.C. Highlift Pump Area                    25,154          For Later Construction
Euphrates Valley Rehabilitation Area          9,787          For Rehabilitation
(6,400 ha already
irrigated)
Pilot Project                                19,600          Under Development
Shininah Canal Gravity Extension Area         6,931         For Later Construction
Total                       102,472
4.        The intake facilities under construction comprise the first 0.2 km
of the L.M.C. so that the project work would start at km 0.2. The first 18,5 km
of the L.M.C. is essentially a headreach section which would convey water to
a distribution complex at km 18.5. The design capacity of the canal for this
section would be 140 cumecs. A 0.75 km long tunnel, about 5m in diameter would
be constructed between km 1.75 and 2.50 to convey water through some highlands
close to the head of the canal. Irrigation from the canal between km 0.2 and
18.5 would be limited to the conversion to gravitv flow of a 1,400 ha pilot
area, the Swediyah area, presently being equipped to be supplied direct from
the Euphrates River by temporary pump facilities.
5.        At km 18.5 the major part of the flow would turn north in a con-
tinuation of the Lower Main Canal which would serve: Unit II of the project
(31,000 ha) (Map IBRD 10560RI); the future L.M.C. Highlift Pump Area (25,154
ha); and the future Shininah Canal gravity extension area (6,931 ha). The
design capacity of the L.M.C. at km 18.5 would be 85 cumecs subsequently re-
ducing according to the offtake requirements for irrigation to about 10 cumecs
at km 44 of the S.M.C.
6.        The part of the flow not carried northwards in the continuation of
the Lower Main Canal would be distributed at km 18.5 to: the three other
existing pilot areas (Fayd, Salhabiyah, and Hamrat) by connecting the head-
reach section to the existing canal systen serving these areas; Unit I of
the proposed project via the existing Upper Salhabiyah Main Canal; and the
future Euphrates Valley rehabilitation area (9,787 ha). The three pilot
areas are presently served by a temporary pump station and canal at Kudayran.
After the planned conversion to gravity supply (Annex 4) the pumping units
and ancillary equipment would be transferred for use in the main pumping
station required to serve Unit I of the project (Bir el Hashim pump station).
0



ANNEX 11
Page 3
7.        The full length of the Main Supply Canal that would be provided by
the project is required to irrigate the project area, but the capacity that
would be provided is in excess of that required for the project alone, and
allows for the requirements of developments in the area as described above.
8.        The provision by the project of the additional capacity to allow
for the conversion to gravity supplies of the 26,000 ha, presently served by
temporary pump facilities from the river, is justified since no permanent
provision for secure water supplies to these areas has yet been made, and
the incremental investment required to provide these supplies via the L.M.C.
is the least cost solution. This incremental investment, estimated to be
about US$205 million is equivalent to about 5% of the cost of the Main Supply
Canal or about 2% of the project cost.
9.        Provision by the project of the incremental capacity required for
the development of the 35,000 ha remaining to be developed after the project,
is justified because the special construction requirements in the difficult
gypsum soils which form part of the canal subgrade require that the canal be
fully lined (para 12) and hence the cost of a later augmentation of canal
capacity would be prohibitive quite apart from the need to avoid interruption
in the canal regime. The provision of the additional capacity to serve these
35,000 ha would increase the cost of the canal by about 25% and increase total
*Sa      investment by about 10%.  This additional investment would be but a small part
of the substantial further expenditure required to develop these 35,000 ha.
Irrigation and Drainage System
10.       41,000 ha net would be equipped for irrigation by the project, of
which about 10,000 ha would be in the "island" area - Unit I on Map IBRD
10560RI and the remaining 31,000 ha, or Unit II, served by the L.M.C. beyond
km 18.5. The land in Unit I cannot be commanded by the gravity system, and
up to two stages of pumping would be required to obtain command. The existing
Upper Salhabiyah Canal has been constructed to the size necessary to convey
water for Unit I to the site of the proposed 15 cumecs capacity pump station
at Bir el Hashim, but two siphons across the Wadi el Fayd would be constructed
by the project to augment the existing capacity to convey water across the
Wadi. The siphons would be each about 2.3 m in diameter, have a maximum dis-
charge of 6.2 cumecs, and be about 3.5 km long. The main feature of the five
pump stations in the "island" area would be as follows:-
Punp Station              Design Discharge             Lift             Status
cumecs                  m
Bir Al Hashin                   13.7                    23              Primary
highlift                         7.1                     13              Secondary
Jarwah                           2.8                    12               Secondary
Al Ansaar                        1.1                     9               Secondary
No. 5                          0.5                     6               Secondary



ANNEX 11
Page 4
11.       Existing natural drainage channels such as the Wadi Balikh and the
Wadi el Fayd would be used as main drains. A surface drainage system to farm
level would discharge into the main drains. Some 3,500 ha of land with rel-
atively poor internal drainage may require subsurface drainage in the future.
Such subsurface drainage would be constructed by GADEB if experience under
irrigated condition proves that it is necessary and is not included in the
project.
Canal Design Features
12.       All main canals would be concrete lined, and would generally have
side slopes of 1.5:1 and a water depth to bed ratio of 1:2. In view of the
occurrence of gypsum in the soils of the project area (Annex 6) special meas-
ures would have to be taken to minimize seepage from canals wherever gypsum
occurs in the canal alignment in order to avoid subgrade collapse due to
solution of gypsum from the canal foundations. This would require the place-
ment of a 0.5 umm thick PVC lining in addition to the proposed concrete lining
or an equally effective technical solution. Where a plastic lining is neces-
sary, such a lining would be placed in large prefabricated sheets directly on
the excavated subgrade and the concrete lining would be mechanically placed
on top of the plastic lining. Subsurface investigations indicate that about
70% of the length of canals to be constructed under the project would require
the additional plastic lining.
13.       All concrete linings would be mechanically poured in-situ and have
mechanically placed preformed PVC waterstop at joints in the lining.  Where
high groundwater is a hazard, or where groundwater movement could cause
solution of a gypsiferous foundation, deep drains would be placed to protect
the canal. Cross drainage structures for the Lower Main Canal would be de-
signed to pass floods with a frequency of occurrence of 100 years, while for
smaller canals the design flood would be the 25 year flood.
14.       IIinor canals would be precast canalettes with supports placed at
the midpoint of the precaste unit. Water courses would for the most part be
unlined, except in areas of high permeability, where a plastic liner would be
placed. Watercourse discharge would be 40 liters/sec to serve a standard
watercourse unit of 23 ha.
On-Farm Development
15.       The project would provide for the development for irrigation down
to the farm level including the construction of watercourses, on-farm drainage
and land shaping. Some 75% of the project area would need land shaping.
Generally land requiring movement of more than 1,000 m3/ha has been excluded
from the project but where the requirement is less than 1,000 m3/ha, shaping
would be carried out as part of the major construction contracts.
0



ANNEX 11
Page 5
Roads and Infrastructure
16.       About 110 km of 7 m wide paved surface roads with 1.2 m shoulders
on a compacted base would be provided by the project as major access routes.
One road would run along the left bank of the Euphrates River between Thawra
and Raqqa and other roads would connect the Lower Mlain Canal with the central
administrative headquarters in Raqqa. Feeder roads about 4 m wide with 1 m
shoulders would be constructed within the project area to link existing and
planned villages to the main road network. Feeder roads would be gravel
surfaced on a compacted soil base.
17.       About 28 villages in the project area would be provided with
primary water supply facilities including watertowers, and larger villages
would be provided with buildings for schools, clinics, and community activities.
Garages and fully equipped repair shops would be provided in each village,
with about one village garage to eiglht tractors and one repair shop to about
4 village garages. In total about 68 garages and 18 repair shops would be
provided by the project. Four Operation and M4aintenance centers would be
constructed under the project in each of four operating divisions.
0
.






ANNFX 12
*Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Consultants
1.        Three different consulting contracts would be financed under the
project covering: general consultants to GADEB for the project; operational
studies of Lake Assad and the preparation of operational guidelines- and
studies for the rehabilitation of agriculture in the Lower Euphrates Valley.
The general scope of the work of the consultants would be as follows:-
A.   General Consultants to GADEB
(1) Engineering
(a) Review designs and specifications being prepared
by GADEB's design consultants during the course
of preparation of such work and advise and make
recommendations to GADEB concerning their tech-
_                              nical adequacy.
(b) Coordinate the production of unified specifications
and the use of unified design criteria by design
consultants.
(c) Evaluate tenders for construction and make recom-
mendations to GADEB for award of contracts.
(d) Approve all working drawings prepared by GADEB's
design consultants, prior to their use for con-
struction.
(e) Prepare a detailed work program coordinating the
phasing of construction contracts, settlement and
agricultural development, so that the maximum use
can be made of constructed facilities as soon after
completion as possible.
(f) Assist GADEB with the supervision of construction
of all works to be built under the project.
(g) Prepare a report presenting detailed operation and
maintenance procedures for the nrolect, including
recommendations for required staffing and equipment
for operation and maintenance.
(h) Prepare specifications and tenders for operation
and maintenance equipment reoiired to be pturchased



ANNEX 12
Page 2
for the project. Evaluate such tenders and make
recommendations to GADEB for award of purchasing
contracts.
(2) Agriculture
(a) Extension and Training
A team of extension specialists would be attached
to the Agricultural Extension Section of GADEB
to assist in the establishment and organiza-
tion of an Agricultural Extension Service. The
service to be created originally for the Project
area and adjacent pilot areas only, would be the
model for a larger organization, serving event-
ually the entire Euphrates Basin.
The consultant extension team would have the
following responsibilities:
(i) Develop a coordinated plan for a complete
and well integrated agricultural extension
service, taking into account agricultural
resources and production goals at the pro-
ject as well as the national level and the
availability of project and national resources
in personnel, equipment and facilities to
GADEB;
(ii) Assess the need for additional training of
extension personnel and develop a program
of classroom and in-service instruction;
(iii) Develop a training program for farmers in
the project area, including classroom in-
structions, field demonstrations, and learning
by work experiences;
(iv) Demonstrate under actual field conditions to
extension agents and farmers proper methods
of irrigation, crop production, use of agricul-
tural machinery, and all phases of improved
livestock management;
(v) Assist GADEB in the organization, implementation
and direction of the Agricultural Extension
Service.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
(b) Soil and Water Management
An experienced specialist in soil and water manage-
ment would be attached to GADEB to assist in the
effective application of improved methods of soil
management and irrigation.
His terms of reference should include:
(i) Advise and assist the management of GADEB
on the feasibility of application of locally
obtained research results pertaining to soil
and water management in project development,
with special reference to treatment of highly
saline, alkaline, and gypsiferous soils
through leaching, amendments, drainage, and
fertilization;
(ii) Advise GADEB on needs for additional research
and demonstration in soil management (erosion
control, drainage, subsoiling, amendments),
crop selection (with respect to salt tolerance,
rooting depth, organic matter formation), and
water management (method of irrigation, timing
and amounts of water application);
(iii) Assist the Experimental Division in the layout
of experiments related to subjects under (ii);
and
(iv) Assist the Agricultural Extension Section
in the demonstration and introduction of
improved methods of soil and water manage-
ment at the farm level.
B.      rational Studies of Lake Assad
(1) Review of existing hydrological data and data col-
lection methods
The Ministry of the Euphrates has already collected and
analyzed the available hydrological data of the
Euphrates River and its tributaries in Syria and
Turkey. The consultants will review the data, paying
particular attention to that part of the river that
will remain uncontrolled after the completion of the
Keban Dam in Turkey. The consultant will also review
present hydrological data collection methods in the
Euphrates basin in Syria and if necessary make recommen-
q                          dations for their improvement.



ANNEX 12
Page 4 
(2) Operational Studies
Using mathematical modelling techniques, the con-
sultant will conduct operational studies of Tabqa
reservoir under different assumptions of inflow to
Syria and outflow from Syria, to determine the rela-
tive importance of significant variables on the
operating regime of Lake Assad. Assumptions
to be used for diversion of water from the river
and required outflows from Syria will be provided by
the Ministry of the Euphrates.
(3)  Flood Forecasting
The consultant will investigate the present capabi-
lity for flood forecasting in Syria; make recommenda-
tions for the establishment of improved flood fore-
casting systems with different degrees of complexity;
and determine the benefits that could be obtained f
such improved systems.
(4) Operating Rules
On the basis of studies carried out, the consult
will develop practical operating rules and proce
for the operation of Lake Assad, taking into accc
irrigation demands from Tabqa reservoir and downs
flow requirements supplied by the Ministry of the
Euphrates; projected power and energy demands and
generating plant installation to 1985 supplied by
the Ministry of Electricity. The method for develc
the operating rules and procedures shall be set for
in detail and guidelines shall be provided to allow
continued updating of rules and Procedures.
(5) Downstream Effects
Assess the general implications of river control and
the proposed operational procedures on agricultural
land situated in the Euphrates Valley in Syria down-
stream of the Euphrates Dam. Evaluate the circumstance
under which re-regulating facilities would be needed
downstream of the Euphrates Dam.
(6)  Capacity and Energy Output
Assess the firm and secondary energy output and
capacities expected to be available between 1975 and
1985, consistent with irrigation requirementst under
different probabilities of flow occurrence and different
assumptions concerning future developments on the river.
(7) Prepare a report covering (1) - (6).



ANNEX 12
Page 5
C, Lower Euphrates Valley Rehabilitation Studies
1.        Increasing soil salinity on the existing irrigated land of the
Euphrates Valley has become a hazard to agriculture in the region in recent
years. The Third National Development Plan provides for studies of drainage
problems in existing irrigated areas, and the proposed project would contri-
bute towards this program of studies by providing for consultants to carry
out investigations and project preparation in the Lower Euphrates Valley,
which is the area of highest priority for remedial action.
2.        Consultants would:  (a) investigate the general requirements for
the rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture in an area of about 200,000 ha
in the Lower Euphrates Valley between the Zalabie-Halabie gorge and Abou
Kemal at the Syria/Iraq border and prepare a master plan for development,
delineating project boundaries and preliminary project layouts for a phased
rehabilitation of the area; (b) prepare a feasibility study for a first stage
rehabilitation project covering about 55,000 ha on the right bank of the
river in the valley to the detail necessary for appraisal by an international
lending agency; and (c) prepare detailed designs and contract documents for
the said project. Activities (a) and (b) would be carried out concurrently.
Activity (c) would be carried out after the completion of activity (b).
e          3.        The general scope of work to be carried out for the preparation of
the master plan (Activity (a)) would be as follows:
(i) additional soil surveys as necessary in order to prepare
land suitability mars to a scale of 1:25,000 and to identify
problem areas of waterlogging and soil salinity;
(ii) hydrogeological studies to identify the causes of water-
logging and sources of salinity;
(iii) consideration of alternative methods of alleviating waterlog-
ging and salinity problems through: (a) construction of an inter-
cept drain along the valley margins, (b) constructioi  of a system
of open drains, (c) tile drains either initially or as a later
phase of development when more intensive cropping could make
them necessary, and (d) improved irrigation practices and
control of water supply;
(iv) proposals for a new irrigation network to serve areas that
are unirrigated at present and to supplement or replace sup-
ply to partially irrigated areas.  These would include examina-
tion of existing irrigation systems and their integration into
or replacement by the new network;
(v) study of existing land tenure, and agreement with government
on proposals for necessary changes to facilitate construction
and operation of the new irrigation and drainage systems;



ANNEX 12
Page 6
(vi) delineate project boundaries and prepare preliminary project
layouts for a phased rehabilitation of the area.
4.        Preparation of the feasibility study for a 55,000 ha rehabilitation
project (Activity (b)) would require a more detailed analysis of item (i)
through (v) in paragraph 3 above and in addition the following:
(i) review of present agriculture and crop production, and proposals
for improvement of agricultural production under the project.
Besides changes in cropping patterns and cultivation practices
these proposals should include recommended changes in supply
of credit and organization of cooperatives;
(ii)  evaluation of farm budgets under present and proposed future
cropping patterns. Determination of the repayment capacity
of farmers, the recommended level of cost recovery, and the
means of collection;
(iii) examination of the need to improve infrastructure (roads, market-
ing facilities, stores, offices, etc.) and estimate of costs;
(iv)  recommendations on the organization of project management
during the construction period and after (organization                           0
chart), and the provision of extension services;
(v) examination of the future market potential and price
structure for produce from the project;
g (vi) cost estimates and economic evaluation of the project;
(vii) possible social improvements to be included in the project
(e.g. health centers water supplies, training centers);
(viii) an examination of the Bilharzia problem in the project area;
the effects of the project on its incidence in the project
area and consideration of whether an extensive program of social
control and treatment of affected persons could be undertaken
in conjunction with the project.
0



ANNEX 13
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Bilharzia and Malaria
A. Bilharzia
1.        Bilharzia is known to be endemic in parts of the Raqqa governorate,
from the Turkish border, in the North, near Tel Abyad through the valley of
the Balikh River, and downstream to Deir-ez-Zor. The only form of bilharzia
which has been recorded so far is the Schistosoma haematobium and the inter-
mediate host is reported to be Bulinus truncatus. Although in the past,
control efforts kept incidence of the disease in the Raqqa governorate low,
the situation has deteriorated and infection rates in the villages now range
between 13 and 25%.  In the Deir-ez-Zor governorate infection rates are even
higher.
2.        Possibility of the spread of bilharzia in the project area due to the
project would depend on control of the disease in the presently infected area
as well as on its introduction from other areas such as from the reservoir
area. A recent survey has shown that neither S. haematobium nor any specimens
of Bulinus are found in the reservoir area. As all major and minor canals in
the project area would be concrete lined, the only possible habitat for Bulinus
breeding would be the field irrigation water courses and drainage channels.
The chance for establishment of bilharzia in the area west of the Wadi Balikh
is, therefore, very small while the greatest risk of its spread is in the
valley of the Balikh River itself as well as in the area downstream of Balikh
on either side of the Euphrates River.
B. Malaria
3.        A malaria eradication program was initiated in Syria in 1960 using
residual DDT indoor spraying in the areas considered to be endemic for malaria.
Due to the effectiveness of this program, the whole of Raqqa province was con-
sidered to be free from malaria infection by the end of 1963. However, in
other areas also free of malaria, the introduction of irrigation has played a
pertinent role in the re-introduction of malaria because of the creation of
more favorable conditions for the survival of the local anopheles and/or the
importation of malaria cases from elsewhere. The introduction of the large-
scale Euphrates irrigation scheme may, thus, sufficiently change the local eco-
logy to cause increasing concern with respect to the malariogenic potential of
the area. Moreover, under the continuous use of residual insecticides, local
anopheles vectors may have developed a resistance to DDT and dieldrin which
would eventually warrant the use of more effective (and expensive) insecticides.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
C. Control of Bilharzia and Malaria
4.        In view of the danger of a spread of bilharzia and of possible
recurrence of malaria, it is recommended that a more intensive program of
disease and health control be initiated in the project area. The existing
bilharzia control team stationed in Raqqa should be strengthened and another
team should be placed in the western part of the project area. The two teams,
each consisting of a health inspector, snail collector, microscopist, and a
few laborers for spray operations, should conduct clearing operations of the
infected area and keep a watch on the new settlements for the occurrence of
both diseases. Each team should operate out of a control center, housed in
adequate building, with necessary laboratory equipment for analyses (including
a microscope and centrifuge) and field equipment for chemical control (sprayers
and chemicals), as well as transportation equipment. The teams should receive
periodical technical assistance from:
(a) an expert in malacology who would recommend the most
effective and safe snail control measures in case of
ecological conditions favoring the implantation of the
intermediate host (Bulinus); and
(b) a sanitary engineer conversant with the engineering aspects
of irrigation schemes in relation to bilharzia infection,
who would advise on how to minimize the risk of spread of
Bulinus to the newly irrigated areas as well as on housing
sanitation and water supply to the new settlement communities.
The Malaria Service should simultaneously extend its local network and assign
the necessary staff to both centers to be responsible for detection of malaria
infection as well as for the carrying out of preventive and controlling insec-
ticide applications. The national epidemiologist should be made responsible
for continuous supervision and guidance on the technical aspects of the inten-
sive bilharzia and malaria control campaign which should be initiated as soon
as possible so that effective control would have been achieved before resettle-
ment has advanced to any degree.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Demand, Supply, and Quality
Rainfall
1.        Rainfall in the project area averages about 215 mm per annum and
occurs primarily from October through May. In years when the rainfall is
higher than average, a low yield winter cereal crop can be harvested but this
occurs only once every two to three years. The summers are dry so that no
summer cultivation is possible without irrigation. Effective rainfall as a
percentage of total rainfall is relatively high due to the generally high
intake rates of the project soils.
Crop Water Requirements
2.        Water requirements of crops under irrigation in the project area
have been determined using the Penman method and checked by the Blaney-
Criddle formula as revised by Phelan. Crop factors have been determined by
field experimentation. Net irrigation requirements for typical crops to be
grown in the project area are as follows, with details in Table 1.
J   F   K   A   1N    J    jT    i    _    0   N   D   Total
-------------------- (in r) -______________________
Cotton       -   -   -  51  116  187  258  233   62   -   -   -         907
Wheat.       -   6  61  98  141   -    -    -    _    -  11   -         317
BerseeTn     -   -  61  98   -    -    -    _    62  79  2L    -        324
Maize        -     -   -           -   172  2014  16(  92         - _   639
Sesame       -   -   -   -   -    93  2J 2  22,1  1 4   79      - -     76L
Groundnuts  -   -   -   -  141  218  2 42  2c ib     6   -   -   -      951
Alfalf a     -   -  61  98  167  2119 (2 76 (262 (166  91
I (1 38 (262 (30)k
Orchard      -  10  61  98  167  218  292  20i  1! 6  92  31   -   1,269
Vegetables  -   -  12  80  167  218  242  204  12,  79   -   -   1,127
Potatoes    -   -  36  80  167  218  1CI   -    -    -   -   -          605
Maximum water requirements are in July.  The proposed cropping pattern (Annex
7) would have net water requirements of 2,009 m3/ha in July, equivalent to
0.75 liters/sec/ha.
1/   Peak water requirements in July might make it necessary to cut down
the alfalfa crop water requirement by about 50% which would create
therewith a state of semi-dormancy. This can be corrected again
one or two months later by the supply of additional irrigation water.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Project Water Requirements
3.        An overall water use efficiency of 55% from the point of take off
from the reservoir is assumed. Since all canals except for some water-courses
will be lined, a 10% conveyance loss is accepted. Field efficiency, measured
from the watercourse head regulator is estimated to be 60%. With the assumed
overall efficiency of 55%, the peak gross water demand (in July) would be equi-
valent to 1.364 liters/sec/net ha, and the average annual gross water require-
ment per ha would be about 17,400 m3/net ha. The actual design water duty
adopted was 1.375 liter/sec/net ha and this is acceptable.
On the basis of the above assumption the total annual water diver-
sion to the 41,000 ha that comprise the project would be about 710 million m3
at full development. This would be distributed through the year approximately
as follows:
J    F    M    A    M    J    J    A    S    0    N    D    Total
Gross Supply   -    2   26   60   98   100  150  146   86   35   5    -         708
(million m3)
% of Total     0   0.3  3.7  8.4 13.8  14.1 21.1 20.6 12.1  4.9 1.0   0         100
Part of the water diverted to the project would return to the Euphrates River
as "'return flow." It is expected that the percentage of total diversion to
return to the river would rise to about 30% after equilibrium conditions in
the soil storage reservoir are reached. Under these circumstances the annual
consumptive use by the project would be about 500 million m3.
Water Supply
4.        Water would be supplied to the Sroject from the Euphrates River by
gravity diversion from the 11.7 billion m capacity reservoir that will be
formed by the new dan across the Euphrates under construction at Thawra. The
average annual volumes of flow of the Euphrates River at Thawra, presently
about 26 billion m&, is projected to be ahout 24.5 billion ml by the time
that water will be first diverted to the project in 1977. The reduction in
flow between 1973 and 1977 would be due to evaporation losses from Keban and
Thawra reservoirs which are presently under construction (Annex 3). The
amount of water diverted to the project would be less than 3% of the average
river flow, and consumption by the project about 2%.
5.        The intake for the Lower Main Canal has been located at such a
level that under normal operating conditions full water supply to the areas
fed by the canal is assured. The reservoir has a full supply level of 300.0 m
above sea level (asl), whereas the invert of the intake is at 283.0 m asl.
Intake design is such that when the reservoir level is above 290.3 asl the
intake capacity is at least that of the maximum capacity of the Lower Main
Canal of 140 cumecs.  The reservoir storage from 290.3 asl to full supply



ANNEX 14
Page 3
level at 300.0 asl represents about 70% of the total live storage of 7.4
billion m3. When the reservoir level is below 290.3 asl the intake capacity
is affected by water levels in the Lower Main Canal and reduces progressively
to zero at a level of 285.0 asl. Under normal operating conditions the re-
servoir level would not drop below 297.0 asl.
6.        Simulated reservoir operating studies conducted by consultants using
measured river discharges covering the period 1931-1961 show a high degree of
security for water supply to the project. For example even if presently
planned developments on the river upstream of the Euphrates Dam are fully
implemented and result in a diversion of 9.6 billion m3 of water upstream of
the Euphrates Dam in excess of present diversion, a typical operational pat-
tern would have resulted in the reservoir level falling below the critical
level of 290.3 asl only once during the 32-year period. Furthermore, the
studies show a beneficial coincidence between the occurrence of minimum
annual reservoir levels--and hence minimum capacity to supplv water to the
project--and minimum crop water requtirements in the project area. Thus in
the simulation study referred to above, although the Lower Main Canal discharge
would have been reduced below full capacitv for a period of eight months some
70% of the project water requirements would have been supplied.
3       7.         Although available data on the Euphrates hydrology and reservoir
operation sufficientlv demonstrate the securitv of water supplies to the proj-
ect, no firm operating rules have yet been drawn up for Lake Assad. The
proposed project would provide for studies to be carried out by consultants
to develor operating rules (Annex 12).
Water Qualitv
8.        The Euphrates river water at Thawra is presently classified as C2-S
according to the TT.S. Salinity Laboratory Classification 1/. The low conducti-
vity of the water indicates that all but extremelv salt sensitive plants can
be grown under irrigation; and the low soditum percentage will minimize the
danger of sodium buildup in the soil from the evaporation of irrigation water.
Water diverted to the project from Lake Assad would have an even lower peak
salinity than that presently occurring in the unregulated river at Thawra due
to the equalizing effect of Lake Assad.
9.        The Euphrates water conductivity at Thawra is presentlv in the range
300-600 micromhos/cm. The higher conductivities occur when the river is at
low stage. At neir-ez-Zor some 200 km downstream, water conductivities aver-
age some 20% higher than at Thawra (Table 2) wlhereas in parts of Iraq, poor
water quality due to salinity is alreadv a serious constraint to irrigated
1/   C2 indicates "medium" salinity in the range 250-750 micromhos.
S1 indicates water "low" in Sodium.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
agriculture at certain times of the year. Although return flows from the
project will increase the overall quantities of dissolved solids in the
Euphrates river water, regulation of the river by upstream dams will result
in an increase in the present low flows, and the consequent dilution effects
will considerably improve the river water quality at critical periods over
that existing at present even allowing for the small increases of salinity
that could occur from return flows from the project.



ANlNEX 14
SYRIAN AR.B REPUBLIC                                        Table
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Water Recuirements
Crop                          J      F     X     A      M      J     J      A     S      0     N      D     Total
Eo (free watei surface) (mm)       40  "62   121   174   254   311   345   291   208   131    65    40    2,042
Rain, effective (mm)               34    23    24    24    11    -         -     -      -     -      15    23       154
Cotton
-rop factor                         -     -      -    0.2   0.5   o.6   o.75   .8   0.3    -         -     -        -
Cons. use (m)                    _      _     _      35   127   187   258   233    62    -        -      -        902
Net irr. req. (mm)               -      -      -     11   116   187   258   233    62    -         -     -        907
+40L1
Wheat
Crop factor                     0.5   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.6                          -      -    0.-4   0.5       -
Cons. use (ma)                   20.   43    85   122   152    -        -      -     -      -     26    20        468
Net irr. req. (mm)             (-14)    6    61    98   141                 - -  -    -           11    -         317
Berseem (for hay)
Crop factor                     0.5   0.6   0.7   0.7    -        -     -      -    0.3   0.6   0.6   0.6
Cons. use (mm)                   20    37    85   122    -        -     -      -     62    79    39    23         468
Net irr. req. (mm)             (-14)   -      61    98    -       -     _      _     62    79    24    -          324
*         Maize
Crop factor                      -      -     -      -     -      -    0.5   0.7   0.8   0.7   0.3
Cons. use (mm)                   -      -     -      -     -      -    172   2014  166    92    20    -           654
Net irr. req. (mm)               -      -     -      -     -      -    172   204   166    92        5    -        639
Sesame
Crop factor                      -      -     -      -     -    0.3   0.7   0.7   0.7   o.6    -         -        -
Cons. use (m)                    -      -     -      -     -      93   242   204   146    79    -        -        764
Net irr. req. (mm)               -      -     -      -     -      93   242   204   146    79    -        -        764
Groundnuts
Crop factor                      -      -     -      -    o.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7    -        -      -        -
Cons. use (mm)                   -      -     -      -    152   218   242   204   146    -        -      -        962
Net irr. req. (mm)                   -        -      -    141   218   242   204   146    -         -     -        951
Alfalfa
Crop factor                     o.5   o.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.8   0.8   0.9   0.8   0.7   0.6   0.6             -
Cons. use (mm)                   20    37    85   122   178   249   276   262   166    92    39    23    1,549
Net irr. req. (mm)             (-14)   -      61    98   167   249   276   262   166    92    24    -           1,395
Orchard
Crop factor                     0.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.6             -
Cons. use (m)                    24    43    85   122   178   218   242   204   146    92    46    23    1,424
Net irr. req. (mm)             (-10)   10    61    98   167   218   242   204   146    92    31    -           1,269
Vegetables
Crop factor                      -      -    0.3   o.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.6   o.6    -          -        -
Cons. use (mm)                   -      -     36   104   178   218   242   204   125    79    -          -     1,186
Net irr. req. (mm)               -      -     12    80   167   218   242   204   125    79    -          -     1,127
Potatoes
Crop factor                      -      -    0.5   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.3    -        -      -     -      -        -
Cons. use (mm)                   -      -     60   104   178   218   104    -        -      -     -      -       664
Net irr. req. (mm)               -      -     36    80   167   218   104    -        -      -     -      -       605
/1  Pre-irrigation for field preparation and sowing.



A1 4
Table2
s Rm ARi RIFDIC
T-wical CorAuctivitiep of jiuDhateg River Water at Thaw'. and Dir em Zor (1965)
(canductivity mlcrchou/ol)
Date           Thaw                 Date        D.fr as Zor
January 6        560                Jauary 6         620
January 21       540               January 23        700
February 6       540               February 8        630
February 21      520                February 23      590
March 3          4e80              March 6           660
March 21         470                March 23         540
April 6          1430               April 8          1450
April 21         410                April 23         460
May 6            420                May8             630
May 21           1L20               May 23           500
une 6            450               Juns 8            490
June 21          410                June 21          470
Jay 6            h4O               July 8            660
JUy 21           520               July 21           590
August 6         530                August 8         700
August 21        480               August 21         750
September 6      530                Septmber 8       760
September 21     520                September 21     710
October 6        580                october 8        910
October 21       550                October 21       610
November 6       620                Novew*r 8        690
November 21      610                November 21      710
December 6       430                December 8       510
December 21      470                Dcember 21       450



SYRIAN AR9REPUBLIC                                                                                       .
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1974              1975              1976              1977               1978              1979               1980               1981
CONTRACT1    23.                  4   1   2   3  4    1   2   3  4    1   2   3  4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3  4    1   2   3  4    1   2   3   4
CONTRACT NO. 1 
Tender and Award --_-.-.-t-_--
Construction Lower                           - |  _ 
Main Canal Km. 0.2.18.5
Maintenance Period -          -        ---V--- - -- -  - ---    -- - - --            .   _ 
Construction Unit 1-- - - -                                      -                                   
(10,000 ha)
Maintenance Period -    ---      -------      ------- -. .   .                               -   --------
CONTRACT NO.2
Construction Lower
Main Canal Km 18.5-75.0                                     t      ---   --  --    _ --I
Construction (12.000 ha)
in Unit 2--------    --- ------
Maintenance Period -- - --| J--. --- -- I- = . . .                                                                                                                     - _
CONTRACT NO. 3
Tender and Award- ---------|-----  -- .----
Construction Lower
Main Canal Km. 75-104-     -   .. 1.                           ..  I  1  1    1         I I    I                                                        
and Shininah Canal
Km. 0-44.25
Construction (19,000 hal ----- -  - -                                                             m  -    -                      _ _  _ _ _
in Unit 2
Families Settled                                             I- 92                        2775               4625              6475               7 55
(Cumulative)922754267550
Area under irrigated                                                                         I                 I                 I |
Crops (ha)                           -                 - _                                5,000             15,000             25,000            35,000             41,000
(Cumulative)                                                                                                                                                        I      
Project Year                          1                2                                    4                  s                 6                  7                 8
VVorld Bank-7941(2R)






ANNEX 16
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Settlement
A. Situation in the Reservoir Area
Population
1.        Following the closing of the Euphrates Dam in July 1973, filling of
the reservoir is scheduled to begin by the end of 1973. According to the
census performed prior to planning for resettlement, there are 59 villages and
several scattered farms in the reservoir area 1/ with a total population of
about 65,000 people or 11,400 families with an average family size of 5.7
persons. Inundation of the reservoir lands will force this population to
move elsewhere. Among these are about 600 families employed in the services
sector, who would not require new farm lands. Of the remaining 10,800 families,
approximately 80% or 8,600 families have indicated thiat they would wish to
relocate on land below the dam that is being developed for irrigation and
settlement.  Of those that will not move to the resettlement area, some will
move to the rangelands above the reservoir, and others to different parts of
the country in the hope to find work elsewhere. Besides people, there are
an estimated total of about 340,000 head of sheep in the reservoir area. Of
these, only about 66,000 will be moved with the settlers, as the large flock
owners intend to stay in the vicinity of the reservoir area. On the average,
the number of livestock to be moved per family will be about 6 to 10 sheep,
1 or 2 donkeys, some poultry, and a relatively small number of cattle and
draft animals as available.
2.        Actual displacement of the families in the reservoir area will be
spread out over a three-year period, depending on the height of the water
level in the reservoir. With successive levels of 285, 295, and 300 m asl
(to be expected in 1974, 1975, and 1976, respectively), the number of families
to be moved out would be 7,160, 2,120, and 2,120 respectively.
Landholdings
3.        According to census figures, about 63,000 ha will be inundated by
the reservoir of which about 28,000 ha were under irrigation command and 7,000
under rainfed agriculture. Only 38% of the land in the reservoir area is held
under titled ownership. The remainder is Government owned, 37% of which is
cultivated by farmers, who rent the land on an annual basis from the Government.
Total net income from all sources in the reservoir area is estimated at LS 39.2
million or an average of LS 3,440 per family.
0
1/   The reservoir area includes all land upstream of the Euphrates Dam below
a level of 304 m asl.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
Compensation for Lost Property
4.        An appraisal has been made of land, buildings, and other property
in the area to be inundated to determine an equitable settlement for the peo-
ple who have to be relocated. Appraisal has been carried out by teams con-
sisting of a judge, agricultural engineer, civil engineer, surveyor, village
representative, and a clerk. The criteria for appraisal include the distance
of the property from the Euphrates River, quality of the land (drainage,
salinity, fertility, soil depth, etc.) and income. Compensation for dry
land may range from LS 300 to 500 per ha, and for irrigated land from LS
1,000 to 3,000 per ha, with the majority of them receiving the latter figure.
5.        A final decision concerning the method of payment for lost property
has not yet been made. A plan for this is being worked out to be approved
eventually by the President of the country. Present plans are to reimburse
the settler with one-half of the appraised value of lost property in cash at
the time of moving, while the other half will be applied to the cost of his
new home in the resettlement area. The repayment period for the balance due
on the new home would be 20 years. Several variations of this general prin-
ciple are under study, such as the proposal to have GADEB supply free seeds,
fertilizers, and water for the first three years of development in lieu of
cash repayments on lost property.
B.  Resettlement Area
Location and Number of Settlers
6.        Resettlement of people from the reservoir area would be in the new-
ly developed areas in the Euphrates Basin below the dam, which would also ac-
commodate those already living there. The first area to be used for resettle-
ment is the pilot area, consisting of four separate locations in the Balikh
Basin, namely Wadi el Fayd, Swediyah, Salhabiyah, and Hamrat (see Map IBRD
10460R1). In view of the immediate need to settle as many as possible of the
8,600 families to be relocated, the average land area to be allocated in the
pilot area to each family has been limited to 3.3 ha, although it is planned
that this should be increased to about 6 ha by land consolidation at a later
date when development of the Balikh Basin is further advanced. On this basis,
the 19,600 ha of the pilot area would accommodate about 5,900 families, in-
cluding 5,600 relocated families and the 300 families already living in that
area. The balance of 3,000 families would be resettled in the project area.
The number of existing families in the project area is about 5,000, of which
4,000 are expected to settle on farms following development of the project
area. The proposed project development plan would enable the establishment
of about 7,500 family farms of about 5 to 6 ha each, which is sufficient to
accommodate the remainder of families to be relocated and the present pop-
ulation. As the rising water level in the reservoir might force out the last
of the people in that area by the end of 1975, resettlement in the project
area would have to be accomplished one to two years before the first irrigation



ANNEX 16
Page 3
water would actually become available in the project area.  During that in-
terim period the settlers would be employed by GADEB for work on land leveling
and construction of project works as well as of social infrastructure (houses,
community buildings, access roads, etc.) to provide a family income with the
assistance, in part, of the World Food Program. At the same time, the exten-
sion service would prepare the farmers and train them in modern and improved
ways of irrigated farming. Although some dry farming could, perhaps, be
practiced in the project area before the availability of irrigation water,
the need for food and fodder crops would be urgent.
Landholdings
7.        All of the lands in the pilot area are owned by the Government
while land ownership in the project area is approximately 90% Government
and 10% private. An existing law enables the Government to purchase lands
from the private sector for the project. The exact plan according to which
the Government will allocate landholdings to the farm families in the proj-
ect area is yet to be worked out. Tentatively, the Government plans to lease
the land to the farmers on annual contracts at rates varying from LS 3 to 4
per ha for the first five years, following which permanent title may be granted
to the approved settlers.
Facilities to be Provided
8.        In the pilot areas, fifteen settlement villages are under construc-
tion of which five are nearly completed, while in the project area 28 vil-
lages--including 14 already existing--would accommodate present inhabitants
and new settlers. The new settlement villages have been carefully planned
and, besides housing, the Government is providing for each village an admin-
istrative center, a community center, a mosque, a school, a central bakery,
a market area or "suq" and--in some cases--cooperative stores and warehouses,
sport facilities, medical services (through a dispensary, clinic or hospital)
and communal pastures, buildings and corrals for livestock. Utilities will
also be provided to each village in the form of street lighting and central
water points. The original design of houses and village layouts have been
revised already several times to bring them more into line with the farmers'
needs and wishes. These designs left much to be desired with respect to
living space, sanitation, shelter for livestock, etc. Experience gained
with house and village construction during settlement of the pilot area
will have its beneficial effect on future settlements in the project area.
In view of the difficulties experienced in providing housing acceptable to
the villagers in the pilot areas, the Government does not propose to build
any more houses for the farmers but to provide sites and services, and to
let the new settlers under the project build their own houses. The project
would, however, provide community buildings and primary water supply facil-
ities (Annex 11).
0






ANNEX 17
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
0                                                      Cost EstimatesA
Item                                LS (millions)                    Us$ (millions)L2
local   Foreign     Total       Local   Foreign    Total
Lower Main Canal
Km 0.2 - 18.5                           25.60     19.25       44.85       6.64       5.00      11.65
Tunnel Km  2.0 - 3.0                     8.83      6.85       15.68       2.29       1.78       4.07
Km 18.5 - 78.5                          47.11     33.03       80.14      12.24       8.58      20.81
Km 78.5 -104
and Km O - 44.25 Shininah Canal        40.82    25.87        66.69      10.60       6.72      17.32
Irrigation Distribution System
Branch Canals and Hazimah Main           4.25      2.70        6.95       1.10      0.70        1.80
Major Canals                            18.93     11.97       30.90       4.92       3.11       8.02
Minor Canals and Watercourses           28.70    11.70        40.40       7.45       3.04      10.49
Special Structures
Pump Stations (Bir al Hashim area)      4.88      4.62        9.50       1.27       1.20       2.47
Syphons (Upper Salhabiyah)               8.19      3.35      11.54        2.13      0.87        3.00
On-Farm Development
Land Shaping                            12.75      7.85      20.60        3.31      2.04       5.35
Surface Drainage                         5.26     1.27        6.53       1.37       0.33       1.70
Roads
Access Roads                            10.50     4.31       14.81       2.73       1.12        3.85
Village Roads                            2.70      0.84       3.54       0.70       0.22        0.92
3Village Infrastracture
Community Buildings                      4.75     1.12        5.87       1.23       0.29       1.52
Water Supplies                           1.50      2.16       3.66       0.39       0.56       0.95
Operation Facilities
Village Garages and Workshops            1.07      1.00       2.07       0.28       0.26       0.54
Telephones, Central Workshops
and Operators Housing, etc.             6.o8     3.12        9.20       1.58       0.81       2.39
Equipiment
Maintenance                               -       4.35        4.35        -         1.13       1.13
Extension                               0.12      0.69        0.81       0.03       0.18       0.21
Agricultural                             1.52    14.98       16.50       0.39       3.88       4.29
Consultants
Ehgineering                             1.85      7.05        8.90       0.48       1.83       2.31
Technical Services                      1.74      6.58        8.32       0.45       1.71       2.16
Lake Assad  Operational Studies         0.40      1.16        1.56       0.10       0.30       0.41
Rehabilitation Project Studies           3.51    11.55       15.06       0.91       3.00       3.91
Miscellaneous
Bilharzia and Malaria Control           0.11      1.15        1.26       0.03       0.30       0.33
Experimental Farm                       0.20      0.96        1.16       0.05       0.25       0.30
Subtotal                          241.37    189.48      430.85      62.69      49.21    111.91
Contingencies
Physical                               45.86     29.30       75.16      11.91       7.61      19.52
Price                                   87.64    62.29      149.93      22.76      16.18      38.94
Subtotal                          133.50     91.59      225.09      34.68      23.79      58.46
*             Total Project Cost                 374.87    281.07      655.94      97.37      73.00     170.37
US$1 - LS 3.85
72 Discrepancies due to rounding.



ANNEX 18
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Investment Schedule
Syrian Financial Year              LS              U $quivalent
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)          (millionsT            (millions)
1974                         12.0                  3.1
1975                         75.0                 19.5
1976                        128.0                 33.2
1977                        114.o                 29.6
1978                        135.0                 35.0
1979                        114.0                29.6
1980                         44.o                 1l4.
1981                         22.0                  5.7
1982                         12.0                  3.1
Total                         656.o                170.4



ANNEX 19
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
*BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment to Be Procured Under the Project
A.  Operation and Maintenance EquipmentZi       Number      Estimated Cost
(US$ '000)
Bulldozer - about 125 hp                       2              90
Grader - 12-ft blade                           4             176
Front Loader - 2 cu yd                         3             132
Dragline - 1/2 cu yd                           2              88
Hydraulic Excavators                           2              60
Hydraulic Boom Ditchers                        2              65
Tractors - 65 hp                               4              16
Trailers                                       8              24
Flatbed Trucks - 5 ton                         4              36
Land Plane - 40' & 30'                        12              50
Land Leveller - 15' - 20'                      4               6
Mobile Crane - 5 ton                           1              16
Pickups - 4WD 3/4T                             2              10
4 Wheel Drive Vehicles                        10              35
Water Tankers                                  4              40
Motorcycles                                   52              30
Other Vehicles                                10              45
Miscellaneous Equipment                        -              26
Spare Parts at 20%                                           190
Subtotal      1,135
B. Agricultural Equipment
Tractors - 65 hp                             550           2,037
Combines                                      38             394
Balers                                        49             102
Implement Sets                               550           1,222
Spare Parts                                   -              504
Subtotal     4,259
C. Extension Equipment
4 Wneel Drive Vehicles                        17              71
Motorcycles                                   47              35
Equipment /2                                                  58
Spare Parts                                                   16
Subtotal        180
D. Bilharzia and Malaria Control
Chemicals and Equipment                                     300
0          /1  Preliminary list.  Final list will depend on equipment that can be
made available from the Euphrates lam construction.
/2  Mobile audio-visual units (3), film projectors (3), mimeograph machines (L),
miscellaneous audio-visual equipment, films, drawing equipment, office
supplies and publication materials.



ANNEX 20
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .
Cumulative Disbursement at end of Semester
Bank Fiscal Year and Semester                            (US$ million)
IBRD Loan            IDA Credit
1974 - First                                        -
- Second                                      -                      -
1975 - First                                        _                    0.2
- Second                                      -                     2.2
1976 - First                                        -                    5.5
- Second                                      -                     90 
1977 - First                                       7.0                  10.0
- Second                                    14.0                  10.0
1978 - First                                     18.0                   10.0
- Second                                    21.5                  10.0
1979 - First                                      27.0                  10.0
- Second                                    33.0                  10.0                  0
1980 - First                                     39.5                   10.0
- Second                                    45.0                   10.0
1981 - First                                     51.0                   10.0
- Second                                    57.0  6,f.   X         10.0
1982 - First                                     61.8                   10.0
- Second                                    63.0  7<               10.0
.



ANNEX 21
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Organization
A. Background
1.        The General Administration for the development of the Euphrates
Basin (GADEB-Chart 7959R). established in 1968, is responsible for the in-
tegrated regional development in the Euphrates Basin and would be the execut-
ing agency for the project. Up to the present GADEB has been largely involved
in: planning for resettlement of families to be displaced by Lake Assad;
planning and supervision of construction of irrigation facilities and re-
settlement villages in the 19,600 ha pilot project; research activities at
the various experiment stations in the Balikh Basin; and the planning and
organization of future development activities in the Balikh Basin, partic-
ularly the proposed project. As little development of irrigated agriculture
has yet taken place, the staff concerned with this development aspect will
*ek     need considerable strengthening (para 5.03).
2.        GADEB has separate offices for Planning and Statistics, Land
Acquisition, Public Relations, and Procurement, and its technical functions
are divided among four sectors: Irrigation, Agriculture, Social Affairs, and
Finance and Administration. The Office of Planning and Statistics is con-
cerned with overall, intersectoral planning and logistics; that of Land Ac-
quisition with the purchase of land for right-of-way and Government farms;
and the Office of Procurement is responsible for final approval and awarding
of civil works contracts and purchase of materials, machinery and equipment.
Each of the four sectors is headed by a Deputy Director General.
B. The Irrigation Sector
3.        This sector, basically responsible for design and construction,
would, with the assistance of consultants, be responsible for the preparation
of designs, contract administration and for management and supervision of
construction of irrigation, drainage and road works as well as of housing and
utilities in the settlement villages. During the construction period, the
Irrigation Sector would initially be responsible for the distribution of
irrigation water, a task which would be transferred to the Rural Engineering
Division of the Agriculture Sector upon completion of project construction.
GADEB has employed two consulting firms, Technoexportstroy (Bulgaria) and
GERSAR (France), to prepare designs, specifications, tender documents, and
construction drawings for the main project works and on-farn development,
in Units I and II, respectively. Progress and quality of work performed by
these firms has been satisfactory. The Irrigation Sector, with a staff of
over 60 college graduates, has already gained some experience in management



ANNEX 21
Page 2
of construction contracts in the process of developing the adjacent pilot
areas, while additional experienced Syrian technical staff would become
available, wherever needed, upon completion of the major construction works
at the Euphrates Dam. General consultants to be provided under the project
would assist GADEB in the evaluation of tenders; supervision of design and
construction contracts; and evaluation of problems of soil reclamation and
management under irrigation and of procedures for project operation and
maintenance.
C. The Agriculture Sector
4.        This Sector is responsible for agricultural development of all lands
receiving water from Lake Assad, which also includes maintenance of irriga-
tion works and distribution of irrigation water. The Sector is made up of
the Development and Research Departments; the functions of the Development
Department are distributed among the Divisions of Rural Engineering, Agricul-
tural Affairs, Livestock and Cooperative Affairs, and of the Research Department
among the Experimental, Laboratories and Studies Division. Present staff of
the Agriculture Sector includes over 50 college graduates, 35 of wlhom are in
the Development Department. By the end of 1973, it is planned to double the
staff of the Development Department to make it fully operational.  The same
department will have acquired two to three years experience of project im-                0
plementation in the pilot areas before the initiation of development in the
project. Government has also planned to hire Egyptian experts on contract in
a variety of fields to assist staff in their development and extension acti-
vities.
.5.       All activities within the Agriculture Sector would be planned and
coordinated by the Planning Bureau, which would also be responsible for co-
ordinating agricultural development plans with those of the other sectors
in GADEB. The same bureau would be charged with the action plan of each
experimental farm in the project area, in coordination with research pro-
grams carried out elsewhere in the country by the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Universities of Aleppo and Damascus.
The Rural Engineering Division
6.        This Division would gradually take over from the Irrigation Sector
operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage networks, pumping and
power stations and buildings, as project construction is completed. It
would also be responsible for distributing irrigation water and for provid-
ing cooperatives with machinery services.  The Irrigation Section within
this division would be specifically charged with the supervision of irrigation
schedules and the tabulation and collection of water charges for pavment of
operation and maintenance as well as for recovery of investment. Four oper-
ation and maintenance branches would be set up covering the project area and
the branches would be resnonsible for operation and normal maintenance within
their boundaries.  Coordination of operation would be through an operational
headquarters established at Raqqa. A central workshop and special plant for



ANNEX 21
Page 3
maintenance would also be located at Raqqa. Detailed procedures to be adopted
for operation and maintenance, and staffing and equipment requirements, would
be developed by the Project General Consultants (Annex 12).
The Agricultural Affairs Division
7.        Extension Service.  Because of the vital importance of agricultural
extension in the development area, a new extension service, completely separate
from the limited services now provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, would
be established within the Agricultural Affairs Division of GADEB. Extension
staff would be drawn from the present agricultural staff of GADEB, from new
graduates of the universities and technical schools, and to a limited extent
from the Ministry of Agriculture. Staff requirements for agricultural ex-
tension, headed by a Director of Extension, would be as follows:
(a) Extension Field Agents, one for each 1,000 ha or, on the
average, for each 180 families;
(b) Extension Supervisors, one for every six Field Agents;
(c) Specialists in agronomy, horticulture, livestock, irriga-
tion, soil management, and plant diseases and pest control
*                   (one of each for the project area); and
(d) Supporting personnel at Raqqa headquarters.
The general consultants to be employed for the project would include a team
of three trained extension specialists (one of whom would act as the senior
specialist and project manager), who would work in close cooperation with
the Director of the Agricultural Extension Section and Extension Supervisors
of GADEB. They would assist GADEB in the setting up of an efficient exten-
sion service for the project, and in the supervision of extension and train-
ing of Extension Supervisors and Field Agents. In addition, the general con-
sultants would provide up to four specialists to assist in the setting up and
operation of agricultural machinery services.
8.        The Land Distribution Section of the Agricultural Affairs Division
would distribute and redistribute land into fields and units on the basis of
soils and crop suitability patterns and according to established plans of
crop rotations. It would also provide soil leveling, conservation and im-
provement services.
9.        The Plant Protection Section would formulate crop protection pro-
grams and take necessary measures for the control of diseases, insects and
other agricultural pests including the provision of control materials and
equipment.
The Livestock Division
10.       This Division would be responsible for improving animal production
through research at the livestock station in Eshbiriya (Annex 8), introduction
of improved breeds, and provision of animal health services.



ANNEX 21
Page 4
The Cooperative Affairs Division
11.       This Division would be concerned with the establishment of coopera-
tives, their supervision, control and guidance of legal, administrative and
economic activities. Government policy is to delegate considerable respons-
ibility for development work from GADEB to cooperatives as soon as practicable.
Cooperatives are now being organized in the pilot areas and are made respon-
sible for assisting GADEB in activities pertaining to land use, machinery,
irrigation systems, rural housing and agricultural buildings, and animal
production. Each cooperative is being assigned a director and a nucleus of
technical staff to assist in extension work, crop and animal production,
irrigation scheduling and distribution, and other agricultural services.
The Research Department
12.       The Research Department of the Agriculture Sector would continue to
be responsible for all crop and soil research, including the carrying out of
field experiments at existing experiment stations (Annex 8) and of studies
directly related to the agricultural development objectives of the Balikh
Basin. Studies would include technological and economic studies related to
farm management and the use of agricultural machinery. The department would
be assisted by the Laboratories Division in soil, crop and water analyses,
diagnosis of agricultural pests and diseases; and treatment of seeds.
D. The Social Affairs Sector
13.       This Sector would be largely responsible for implementation of
settlement and resettlement in the Balikh Basin through its Settlement Depart-
ment and for surveys, studies and evaluation of farm production and incomes
of farmers in the reservoir area as well as of those to be resettled in the
pilot and project areas. This sector has a small staff of dedicated and cap-
able sociologists and economists who are at present solely concerned with
preliminary studies, as overall planning and decisions on details of settle-
ment are still being studied at a higher level within the Ministry of the
Euphrates Dam.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION FOR
PROJECT EXECUTION AND COORDINATION                                             PROJECT COORDINATION
MPRIME  OINISTER                                           F THIMMISSION OF
EUPHRATES DEVELOPMENT
_                                                                                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIME MINISTER (CHM)
MINI EUPHRATES DAM(SEC
MINI rERS                                   I EUPHR    S 'ATATES DAM IINMS
----------                                                  buidget, policy
W;           ;      OF THE M~~~~~~<    ADVISORS                                                i ntLrmi;ntsia;lcodondityatn
-LWFP - id                                   LCNUTNS                                       f       HIGH COMMITTEE OF 
MINISTRY OF THE EUPHRATES A
\ INITER EUPHRATES DAM ICM
GENERAL ORGANIZATION                             | GENERAL ADMINISTRATION FOR THE                            L intraministerial coordination
FOR THE EUPHRATES DAM                               DEVELOPMENT OF THE EUPHRATES
(GOED)                                              BASIN (GADE)                              TECHNICAL COMMITTEE                      MINISTRY OF
resrvoiroperation _                                                                            LALISTS.UNIV.PROFESSORSJ                 AGRICULTURE
'   GENERAL1  design, PCs. contract      ADMIN SECTOR
j  CONSULTANTS                           _                                                                           I       I
HIGHFOIN COMITTEE                            r   --  - ---                                                              wns-truction supervision and mgt.            I       I
FOR RESETTLEMENT                             I-r
__r_______________                                                      _ 1  irrigation distribution b (initial devpt period only)nly)
MIN. EUPHRATES DAM (CHM)                          I        DESIGN1                                                          housing and utilitiesI 
CONSULTANTSJP mI L I N                    IRRIGATIONSECTOR                                                        
GOV. ALEPPO
GOV. RAOQA                                        I                                                                         I             RESEARCH                       I       I
*                                                   I           ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~DEPARTMEN         
SECR. BAATHIALEPPO                            agr. extension                                      RICULTURE                                                                      I
SECR. BAATH/RAQQA                           soil and water mgtI                                                                            expeiment stations -----.j
j         ~~~~labortatry ana's -y-ses
VICE MINISTERS                                                                                                                            stdi - - - - - -     - -_-
DIR. GENERAL GOED                                 I                                           _
DIR. GENERAL GADEB           compensation transfer  I                                                                       I          DEVELOPMENT                               I
------ -i _D --                                               - -                                             EPARTMENT                               I
|  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~srenement
operation and maintenanrce
I                                                [COOPERATIVEJi - - - - - -              irrigation distribution (at fulf devptj  |
L__ __ _ _ _ __ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ ___machineryus 
land levelling and soil improvemrent
-ptant protection
COTTON MARKETING ORG
WHEAT ORGANIZATION         _               marketing                             |
MEAT ORGANIZATION
agric extension and trainingp _ _ _ _ _
reaponsibilities and activities                                                   establishment and supervision of cooperatives
Wo,ld Bank-7960RI)






0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SYtRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF GENERAL ADMINISTRATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE EUPHRATES BASIN (GADER)
f ~t B. Enebr.M. D-
- __---- ---------                       {        A E F   3
r---~~~~~~~~m -
F _  -                                                 OFFICES
3                               I                                          PInnAw
I 
I                                         Latd Adne.idtiSnA
I                              I
I                               I                                   {
Dnifn Crontimitanm1 rI I                 .                                                                          _ 
t__ ___ __                                             __       _     __       _       __        _     _     _     _     _      _     _     _     _     _
DEPARlMENT                                    DEPARITtENSTI                                                                                r
as d Red                            osrAn;;                       DetloPmcntDept,|                            Rtewa,& Dept||  rEcnmcDp|                StletntP |
I  _                     _                      ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~DI VISIONS  SEC rlONS       DI VI SIONS
SECTION          SECTION           SECTION           SESOON                                                                                       O 
I O epnrf O.rnegr                                        E Depot l                            Dp;ty nSt. Gcturanl el                              Depl   Su  G enerl
Mltth ~ ~ nBa                                                                                          BUR_IEABeUinSii
stt~~~ a               1     Fi i   Audt1                                                               PInnn
| Cxlp  DnDmy |                                    tNo~~~~~~~~~~~dd a-kwt-7%9592Rf
ji~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






ANNEX 22
0
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BAIISH IRRIGATION FROJECT
Cash Flow of Investment Recovery
-------------------Investment---------------------------
Project     Without      With Minimum/.    With MaximumZi          Cost
Year     Sunk Costs       Sunk Costs       Sunk Coats         Recovery
-------------------------- -LS'00----
1974   (1)     20,540         49,540            132,540
1975   (2)     41,270         41,270             41,270
1970   (3)     82,420         82,420             82,420
1977   (4)     63,360         63,360             63,360
1978   (5)    125,560        125,560            125,560           2,247
1979   (6)     65,530         65,530             65,530           5,179
1980   (7)     25,360         25,360             25,360           9,060
1981   (8)      5,140          5,140              5,140          12,946
1982   (9)      5,140          5,140              5,140          16,169
1983  (10)      5,140          5,140              5,140          18,493
1984  (11)      8,460          8,460              8,460          19,895
1985  (12)      5,140          5,140              5,140          20,777
1986  (13)      5,14C          5,140              5,140          20,965
1987  (14)      5,140          5,14i0             5,140          20,989
1988  (15)      5,140          5,140              5,140          20,989
1989  (16)      8,460          8,460              8,460          20,989
1990  (17)      5,140          5,140              5,140          20,989
1991  (18)      5,140          5,140              5,140          20,989
1992  (19)      5,140          5,14tO             5,140          20,989
1993  (20)     20,140         20,140             20,140          20,989
1994  (21
-2012  -39)      8.460          8.46u              8.460          20,982
681,700                                          671,46Y
Present value
discounted at 10% 350,198       379,198            462,198         112,613
Present value
of government
subsidy dis-
counted at 10%    237,585       266,585             349,585
% Cost Recovery        32            30                  24
/  I  29 million representing 6.5% of the total sunk costs incurred towards
Euphrates Dam, assuming the sunk costs allocation between power and agricul-
ture at 50:50 (see Annex 25 ).
/2 IS I12 million representing 25% of the total sunk costs incurred towards
Euphrates Dam, under the same assumption as in / above but with allowance for
time preference factor.
3 This schedule would recover annual Operation and Maintenance costs and full
investment costs without interest during the project's useful lifetime at
about 35% of the farmers' annual net farm income from the third year of
agricultural development, following 15$ and 25% Of the net farm income for
the 1st and 2nd years, respectively. At full development project charge
per ha would be about LS 530 (US$138).






ANNEX 23
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Market Prospects and Prices
1.        The projected incremental agricultural output from the project
would encounter no market constraints. Much of the project output, partic-
ularly cotton, would be replacing that which will be foregone because of the
filling of Lake Assad. This annex summarizes market prospects for the project
output and prices which are used as a measure of economic and financial ben-
efits of the project.
2.        Major commodities to be produced in the project area include cot-
ton, which would comprise roughly half the project output, and grain cereals
(wheat and maize), wihich would amount to one-fourth of the project output.
The remainder would include sesame, groundnuts, forage crops, potatoes, fruits
and vegetables and some minor livestock output.
3.        In general, domestic prices of agricultural commodities to be pro-
duced in the project area are in parity with world prices considering trans-
portation and other costs. WIhether actually traded or not, the project's
benefits and inputs are largely estimated on the basis of the 1980 projected
world market prices at 1973 constant purchasing power, according to the prevail-
ing commodity price projection by IBRD's Economic Analysis and Projections De-
partment, adjusted to the farmgate value of respective items, taking into
account usual transportation, handling and other costs as well as quality
differential allowances. Due to the paucity of reliable analytical and
quantitative agricultural price data in aeneral and the apparent extreme
price variations in Syria, estimation of future farmers' prices is diffi-
cult. However, the current general parity of the domestic agricultural
prices with the international market is expected to continue throughout
the project period. Where there is a minor divergence between the current
prices and the long term international price projections, it is assumed that
the domestic prices would soon reach parity with international prices, and
expected farmers' prices are based on the above assumption. The farmgate
prices of project output used in the financial and economic analysis are
presented in Table 1.



ANNEX 23
Page 2
Table 1: FARMCATE PRICES USED FOR ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(LS per ton)
Crop               Economic Price    Financial Price
Cotton                1,000                  880
Wheat                   275                  275
Maize                   251                  251
Sesame                  845                  845
Groundnuts              652                  780
Berseem                 100                  100
Alfalfa                 100                  100
Potatoes                240                  240
Vegetables /1            170                 170
Fruits /1               350                  350
Wool                  3,000                3,000
Milk                    450                  450
Mutton (liveweight)  1,800                 1,800
Lamb (liveweight)    2,100                 2,100
/1   Weighted average prices.
Cotton
4.        Cotton is the main export crop in Syria, accounting for about 40%
of total export earnings in 1971. Cotton production in Syria in recent years
has averaged nearly 400,000 tons per year, and export earnings around LS 300
million. Syria's share of the world cotton market is currently less than 2%.
Throughout most of the 1960's the Eastern Bloc has been the major buyer of
Syrian cotton, accounting for nearly 75% of the Syrian cotton export. But
since 1970 this share has been declining, to about 40-50% at present, with
rising exports to Italy, Switzerland, Spain and Japan. Although Syrian cot-
ton production is expected to increase gradually in the long run as more ir-
rigated land comes into cultivation, it is not expected to cause a significant
impact on the world cotton market.
5.        Cotton output from the project, at full development, is estimated
at 45,000 tons, while maximum production of cotton in the reservoir area is
estimated at not more than 40,000 tons. Because of the favorable agro-climatic
conditions for cotton growing in the Balikh Basin, the project's cotton is
expected to be of good quality of medium staple.
6.        The marketing of cotton was nationalized by the Government in 1965
through the establishment, under the auspices of the Ministry of Economics,
of the Cotton Marketing Organization (CMO).  CMO has a monopoly in the sale
and purchase of cotton and is responsible for the purchasing of seed cotton
from all farmers at officially established prices, the ginning of cotton in
34 CMO-owned ginning mills, and the packaging, storing and transportation of
ginned cotton and cottonseed for export and local consumption. Prices of



ANNEX 23
0                                                                         Page 3
seed cotton are fixed by CMO before each crop year in consideration of in-
ternational prices of ginned cotton, anticipated ginning percentages, grades
of lint and production costs. Average farmgate prices for seed cotton were
maintained at IS 800 per ton for the period 1968-71 but were raised to LB 840
per ton in 1972 and to IS 880 in 1973. CMO purchases cotton from the farmers
either directly or through farmers' cooperatives. Buying centers currently
exist at Deir es Zor, Aleppo, Hama and Homs.  A temporary center is established
each year at Raqqa during the cropping season.  CMO keeps account of cotton de-
liveries by each farmer and, after deducting transport charges, arranges
payment through the Agricultural Bank which makes deductions for any out-
standing debts before distributing the proceeds to the farmers.  With the
cooperative structure expected to prevail in the project area and the es-
tablishment of permanent CMO marketing headquarters in Raqqa, no problem is
anticipated in the collection and transportation of seed cotton to cotton
gins for processing and shipment.
Wheat
7.        Historically, Syria has been an exporter of large quantities of
wheat. 1/ However, since 1965 the country has been a net importer of consid-
erable quantities of wheat. Imports have accounted for as much as 40% of
total wheat consumption during recent years. Total consumption has averaged
about 1 million tons per annum for the period 1963-70.  There is clearly an
import substitution opportunity.  If it is assumed that per capita consump-
tion levels will attain the levels reached in the years 1964 to 1966, total
Syrian wheat requirements in 1980 could well be in the neighborhood of 1.5
million tons. Further export opportunities would undoubtedly exist if Syrian
prices were competitive on the world market. The project's wheat output at
full development is estimated at 55,000 tons, which would amount to 4% of
domestic consumption requirement or some 10% of imports. Therefore the proj-
ect's wheat production would face no demand constraints at international mar-
ket prices.
8.        With the establishment of the Milling and Marketing Organization
of Cereals in 1965, the Government has been active in wheat trade by:
(a) purchasing specified amounts of wheat and barley from
farmers at established official prices which are announced
before the cropping season;
(b) functioning as the monopoly agency for wheat and barley trade
and supplying wheat to the nationalized bakeries;
(c)  carrying out selection, purchasing and distribution of cereal
seeds through the Agricultural Credit Bank; and
(d) !stabilizing market prices of wheat and barley when neces-
,sary.
9.        The organization has a branch at Raqqa which will be responsible
for marketing wheat output from the project area. Under the Hlajor Projects
1/   Wheat exports in 1963 and 1964 were 181,000 and 196,000 tons,
respectively.



ANNEX 23
Page 4
Administration, 11 new grain storage silos are being constructed with assis-
tance from the Kuwait Fund, and 3 of them with a total capacity of 110,000
tons--Aleppo, Raqqa and Tartous--are located near the project area. Govern-
ment's share of the wheat market was limited to only about 25% until 1972
because the free market price was above the Government price. However, the
Government plans to channel a greater portion of domestic wheat through the
Milling and Marketing Organization of Cereals by offering higher prices.
10.       In any event, since the prices of imported and domestic wheat have
been in parity after allowing transportation and other costs, and since no
storage and handling difficulties are foreseen, the project's wheat output
would face no marketing constraints.
Animal Feedstuffs
11.       Some 34,000 tons of berseem, 44,000 tons of maize grain and 45,000
tons of alfalfa hay will be produced in the project area at full development.
Livestock brought into the area by the settlers will consume a large propor-
tion of the above output and any remaining production could easily be sold
on the local market. The benefits accruing from the production of these
forage crops will be reflected in the net gains in livestock production.
12.       Maize will be the only main project crop to cause a major change                    0
in national production level, because it is currently a minor crop in Syria
with an average annual production of less than 10,000 tons in recent years.
However, the marketing of maize would face no constraint as it can either be
locally sold or exported as animal feed at the projected price levels which
are in parity with world market prices.
13.       Maize is not currently used in large quantities as animal feed,
since as much as 40% of the total feed intake of the sheep population comes
from natural grazing in the steppe areas and much of the remainder is from
crop residues. The low production of maize has also kept farmers from using
it as the main source of animal feed. However, considerable substitution of
barley by maize is expected to take place because of the extreme annual varia-
tion of barley production.
14.       Government plans for the livestock sector should also increase the
marketing opportunities for maize. Present annual meat production in Syria
is estimated to be about 66,000 tons of mutton and goat meat, 6,500 tons of
beef and 3,000 tons of poultry. Per capita consumption of meat is at the
low level of around 9.0 kg per annum. The Government plans to increase con-
sumption to 20 kg per capita per annum by 1985, by which time the population
of the country should be 10 million (presently, about 7 million). Government
policies concerned with increasing livestock production are aimed at develop-
ing range management systems in the rangelands on Government and cooperatively
controlled lands; increasing the supply of farm feed from irrigated and dry-
land farming areas; and the further development of Government and coopera-
tive feedlot fattening units around Aleppo and Hama.  Eleven Government



ANNEX 23
Page 5
dairy farms and a crossbreeding program are also envisaged. Physical fa-
cilities for the fattening of 1.5 million sheep per annum currently exist
at Aleppo, although the present throughput is estimated to be only 750,000
head per year. If feed requirements are assumed to be 0.30 tons of feed
per animal, total annual requirements for Aleppo could reach 225,000 tons
*        with current installed capacity.  Maize produced in the project could be
used to supply this market, which Government projects to reach full capac-
ity by the mid-1970's, as well as other livestock fattening units in Western
Syria.  Part of the maize produced will be used as a replacement in current
feeding operations for the estimated 6,000 tons of barley that are annually
grown in the project area under dryland conditions.
15.       Failing the existence of adequate demand on the local market for
project area production of maize, a ready export market exists in Lebanon
which imports an average of some 70,000 tons of maize per year.
16.       Statistics on sesame seed appear somewhat unreliable.  However, an
average annual production of about 6,000 tons is recorded between 1964-70,
against an average annual consumption of about 7,300 tons for the same pe-
riod. Individual years' production sometimes varies by as much as 100%.
Sesame seed oil is used as a cooking oil in Syria, and the small quantity
of sesame cake produced is used as an animal feed. The relatively small
amount of annual import of sesame seed does not fully reflect the demand
conditions because the actual consumption of sesame seed is limited by pro-
0       duction and import constraints.  The production of sesame seed under the
project, estimated at 3,000 tons at full development, would face no demand
constraints.
Groundnuts
17.       No reliable data are available on production and consumption of
groundnuts in Syria, although it is clear that consumption of nuts of various
kinds as a snack is a well established consumer pattern. In 1971, Government
estimated total groundnut production at 12,000 tons unshelled, of which 4,000
tons were believed to be domestically consumed. On this basis, any meaning-
ful quantity of groundnuts in the project area would amount to a significant
increase in national. output of groundnuts, and some softening in domestic
price of groundnuts could be expected. However, export opportunities are
good for high quality edible groundnuts as expected in the project area.
It is assumed that the prices of project groundnut production, which would
reach 4,500 tons at full development, would decline in proportion to the
projected long-run international prices of low-grade groundnuts. Therefore,
at the assumed level of farmgate prices project groundnuts, whether domes-
tically consumed or exported, would face no market constraints.
Fruits and Vegetables
18.       Fruit and vegetable production is an important part of Syrian
agriculture.  It accounted for nearly 35% of total plant production value in
1970; fruits occupied 258,000 ha and vegetables, including melons and water-
melons, 186,000 ha. The total project area allocated to fruit and vegetable



ANNEX 23
Page 6
production (including potatoes) would amount to 5,000 ha at full development.
Consumer preference will largely dictate specific distribution of future
output, but it is assumed that an equal acreage of communal orchards would be
allotted to peaches, plums, apricots, onions, potatoes, tomatoes and eggplants.
Full development output is estimated at 13,000 tons of fruits and 59,000 tons
of vegetables.
19.       Most of the project's fruits and vegetables would be locally
consumed in the project area and in Raqqa province, which would have a popula-
tion of nearly 200,000 by the project's full development year, and whose
annual fruit and vegetable consumption would be 18,000 tons and 16,000 tons,
respectively, on the basis of apparent average annual per capita consumption
of 90 kg and 80 kg each between 1964-70. Currently the Raqqa area imports
most of its fruits and vegetables from Aleppo, which in turn imports much
of its supply from the Eastern sea coast. Aleppo province, which has a popula-
tion of nearly 1 million, could import some of its future fruits and vegetables
from the project area as It would mean half the distance of the current import
distance. In any event, given the limited quantity of the project's expected
fruits and vegetables relative to the existing markets, the potential expan-
sion of demand for these items because of high income elasticities and the
expected population growth rate, there would be no demand constraints at the
farmgate prices used in the analysis, which are compatible with those in
other countries.
20.       To date, only the marketing of apples has been completely nationalized,
as a special cooperative has been formed for marketing this product and prices
are fixed yearly by Government decree. The wholesale markets serve as an
intermediary between the producer and the consumer; as distributors of excess
regional production into deficit areas; and as distributors of imported fruits
and vegetables. Facilities at the main wholesale marketing centers are gene-
rally inadequate in size, hygienic facilities, design and storage.
21.       Because of the perishable nature of fruits and vegetables, and the
currently unsophisticated nature of the Raqqa area's fruit and vegetable market,
the project authority may need to pay special attention to handling and storage
facilities for these items once production reaches significantly above self-
sufficiency level for the project population. When no cooperative organiza-
tion is present, fruit and vegetable farmers in Syria usually deliver produce
in sacks to the nearest wholesale market or sell it to consumers directly.
Government estimates that from 30-40% of it is handled by the wholesalers.
Given the expected form of cooperatives in the project area, some type of col-
lective marketing could be organized as necessary.
0



ANNEX 23
Page 7
Livestock Products
22.       The project is expected to produce minor quantities of livestock
products which would accrue as milk, mutton, lamb, and wool in an insignifi-
cant percentage of national output--less than 1-2%-and which would be easily
consumed locally. The current farmgate meat prices in the regions are at
parity with international prices. Prices of milk and wool are low according
to international standards, reflecting low quality. Given the high income
elasticity of demand for livestock products and the expanding population
growth, the Government is planning to increase livestock output in Syria.
What little livestock output the project will produce would pose no marketing
problem at the current level of farmgate prices.






ANNEX 24
Table la
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL INCOME OF PROJECT AREA POPULATION WITHOUT PROJECT
LAS
Gross v,lue of crops and livestock production within project
areaZ-'                                                            6,161,000
Production costsL3                                                   2,645,ooo
Net income derived from production within project area               3,516,o0o
Net income per ha in the project area /4                                     86
Farm income per family derived from project area D                          703
Average net income per family derived from livestock production
by grazing outside project area /6                                       220
Average total net farm income per family for project area production    923
/1 This table quantifies the agricultixral production of the project area
and identifiable livestock production which belong to the project area
population before project, (Annex 6).
/2 Based on total annual value of 2,100 T of seed cotton at LS 1.0 per kg;
6,520 T of wheat at LS .295 per kg; and 6,000 T of barley at LS .200 per
kg and offtake of 22,000 breeding ewes at IS 4,265 per 100.
13 Based on production costs in LS per ha for irrigated cotton: 380; irri-
gated wheat: 250; rainfed wheat and barley: 80; for livestock:LS 740 per
100 breeding ewes.
/4 IS 3,516,000o , 41,oo0 (project area). In calculating incremental net farm
income for project this figure has been used.
/5  IS 3,516,000 . 5,000 (number of families before project).
/6 IS 1,100,000 (aggregate net income from livestock accruing to the project
area population from outside the project area) - 5,000 (number of families).



SYRIAI ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIXH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets With Project at Full Development
Gross                                 Net
Farm Type      Crop/Livestock             Area           Production         ProductionZ-1      Production
(ha)             Value              Cost               Value
A--
(5.0 + 0.3 ha)    Cotton                     2.25               5,445              1,811              3,634
Wheat                      1.75              1,925                 954                971
Maize                      1.50               1,882                967                915
Berseem                    0.50                 400                240                160
Sesame                     0.50                 422                202                220
Potatoes                   0.25                 720                290                430
Alfalfa                    0.35                 525                191                334
Vegetables                 0.35              1,011                 402                609
Fruits                     0.10                 420                148                272
7.55             12,750              5,205              7,545
Livestock products
(mutton, lamb, wool,
milk) from number
of ewes                    10                 825                297                528
Net farm income before                 13,575               5,502              8,073
project charges
/2
Project charge                                                                 2.825
Net farm income                                                                5,248
/1 Excluding family labor.
i2 Amounts 35% of net farm income or 39% of net incremental farm income attributable to the project
calculated on the basis of IS 86/ha in Table la.                                                            Zja



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIK  IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets With Project at Full Development
Gross                                    Net
Farm Type          Crop/Livestock.           Area       Production Value   Production Cost-  Production Value
(ha)      -----------------------(LS)---------------------------
B
(6.0 + 0.3 ha)    Cotton                       3.0             7,260             2,415                4,845
Wheat                        2.4            2,640              1,308                1,332
Berseem                      1.2              960                576                  384
Alfalfa                      o.6               900               327                  573
Vegetables                   0.1              289                115                  174
Fruits                       0.2              840                295                  545
7.5           12,889              5,o36                7,853
Livestock products
(mutton, lamb, wool,
milk) from no. of ewes      20            1,650                594                1,056
Net farm income before                  14,539              5,630                8,909
project charges
Project charge /2                                                               3,118
Net farm income                                                                 5,791
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.
/1  Excluding family labor.                                                                                        ,|
H
Anounts 35% of net faerm income or 39% of net incrementl farm income attributable to 
the project calculated on the basis of IS 86/ha in Table Ia.                                                  oH 



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets With Project at Full Development
Gross                         /I         Net
Farm Type            Crop Livestock           Area        Production Value  Production Cost/-   Production Value
(ha)       -----------------------(LS)---------------------------
C
(5.0 ha)        Groundnuts                    2.5             5,850               1,362                4,488
-,sWheat                       1.5             1,650                 818                  832
Alfalfa                       0.5               750                272                   478
Vegetables                    0.5             1,445                575                   870
Fruits                        0.5             2,100                738                1,362
5.5           11,795               3,765                8,030
Livestock products
(mutton, lamb, wool,
milk) from no. of ewes        7               578                208                  370
Net farm income before                     12,373              3,973                 8,400
project charges
Project charge /2                                                                 2,940
Net farm income                                                                   5.460
/1 Excluding family labor.
/2 Amounts 35% of net farm income or 39% of net incremental income attributable to theproject,
calculated on the basis of LS 86/ha in Table la.
(Di
X D
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ * 



*U                                                            ~~* 
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIUIK IRRIGATIoNo PROJECT
Net Farm Income
Farm Type                                Crops                       Percentane of Farm               Area                              Net Value of Production
(a)II   (b)      (e)     (a)      (b)     (c)         Year_l         2        3 (Ls)-.4 -         5-----6
(Ha)       ---                                      L)
With Pro1ect
!ith Ppiect                         Cotton                           50      50       45     2.5      2.5    2.25         2,460        2,775    3,200    3,625    4,038    3,634
A.  Clbsa I, II, and III Soils -           Wheat                            40       40      35     2.0      2.0    1.75            900         970    1,040    1,110    1,110         971
5.0 + 0.3 ha                          Maize                             10      20       30     0.5      1.0    1.50           142          446      610       610       610       915
Berseem                          10      10       10     0.5     0.5    0.50             55           90       125      160       160       160
Sesame                           10      10       10     0.5     0.5    0.50            131          160       190      220       220       220
Potatoes                        _-Q__-____Q__      5    _---___---.__  0.25               -            -         -        -         -  350-430 /2
Alfalfa                                            5     0.1     0.1    0.35             38           64        74       96        96       334
Vegetables                                      ---_i___  0.1     0.1  __Q,35           137          164       174      174       174       609
Fruits                                                   0.1     0.1    0.10            -48          -48       -48       58       170       272
Total                                                6.3     6.8    7.55
Sub-total   3,815        4,621    5,365    6,053    6,578  7,465-7,545
Livestock - no  of eves           7       7       10                                    268          279       322      326       370       528
Total   4.083        4.900    5,687    6,379    6,948  7,993-8,073
Project charge /3      612        1.225    1,990    2,233    2,432  2.798-2.825
Net income   3.471         3.675    3.697    4.146    4.516  5.195-5.248
/1  (a) = first year of development;  (b) - year 2-5;  (c) - year 6 and folloving.
/2  NPV's for potatoes are in year 6, 350;  year 7, 390;  year 8 and following, 430.
a Project charges: 15% of sub-total (first year); 25% (second year); 35% (third year and folloving).
~1m



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Net Farm Income
Percentage     Area                           Net Value of Production
Farm Type                 Crops         of Farm       (ha)          Year 1         2        3        4        5        6
__----- __----_-__------(Is)--------------------------
With Project
B. Class IV and
Heavy Volcanic Soils -
6.0 + 0.3 ha               Cotton              50           3.0          2,952      3,330    3,840    4,350    4,845    4,845
Wheat               40           2.4          1,080      1,164    1,248    1,332    1,332    1,332
Berseem             20           1.2            132        216      300      384       384      38k
Alfalfa             10           0.6            225        381      444      573       573      573
Vegetables                       0.1            137        164      174      174       174      174
Fruits                           0.2            -95        -95      -95      116       340      545
Total                        7.5
Sub-total    4,431      5,160    5,911    6,929    7,648    7,853
Livestock -
no. of ewes       20                          765        798      919      930    1.056    1.056
Total    5,196      5,958    6,830    7,859    8,704    8,909
Project charge /I      7?      1J490    2.390    2,750    3, M6    3.118
Net income    4,417      4,468    4,440    5,109    5,658    5,791
/   Project charges:  15% of sub-total (first year); 25% (econd year); 35% (third year and following).
H Xu
Cb - *
*   *                               *                                      .                            W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
PATLTKU  IRIGhIDN PROCT
Not Farm Income
Farm Type                  Crops              Percentage     Area                             Net Value of Production
of Farm       (ha)       Yer 1            2          3          4           5          6
_________ _ ---________-  (IS) --------------------------
With Projeet
C. Light Volcanic Soils -
5.0 ha                     Groundnuts               50            2.5       2,875        36348       4,015      4,488       4,488      4,488
Wheat                   30            1.5          675          728        780         832        832         832
Alfalfa                 10             0.5         188          318         370        478        478         478
Vegetables              10            0.5          685          820        870         870        870         870
Fruits                  10            -5         -238         -238       -238         290        850       1.362
Total                             5.5
Sub-total      4,185        4,976       5,797      6,958       7,518      8,030
Livestock -
no. of ewes             7                         268          279        322         326        370         370
Total      4,453        5,255       6,119      7,284      7,868       8,400
Project charge A         668        1,314       2,142      2,549       2,761      2,940
Net income      3,785        3,941       3,977      4,735       5,127      5,460
A   Project charges:  15% of sub-total (first year); 25% (second year); 35% (third year and following).
eN
U 4
ow 






SYRIAlN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost of Production and Gross and Net Returns of Crops
Year of DeveloPment
/1          ~~~1                        2                           3                          4                           56
Crop        Price-       GPV      PC       NPV_     GPV       PC      NPV       GPV      PC- N_ v          GPV-PC'NPV                  GPV_      PC       WP   _    PV       PC       WV
Cotton          .880       1,584      600      984    1,760      650    1,110    1,980       700    1,280    2,200      750    1,450    2,420       805    1,615
Wheat            .275        935      485      450       990     505       485    1,045      525      520    1,100      545      555
Maize            .251        753      470      283    1,004      558       446    1,255      645      610
Berseem          .100        500      390      110      600      420       180      700     450       250       800     480      320
Sesame           .845        592     330       262      676      355      321       760     380       380       845     405      440
Groundnuts       .780      1,560      410    1,150    1,794      455    1,339    2,106       500    1,606    2,340      545   1,795
Alfalfa          .100        800      425      375    1,000      365       635    1,200      460      740    1,500      545      955
Potatoes         .240      2,400   1,000    1,400    2,640   1,080    1,560    2,880   1,160    1,720
Vegetables-    .170        2,380   1,010    1,370    2,720   1,080    1,640    2,890   1,150    1,740
Fruits/3         .350          -      475/4   -475         -     475      -475       -       475     -475    1,400      820      580      2,800   1,100    1,700    4,200   1,475    2,725
/1  Farmgate (financial) price in 1973.
/2  Cust of production and returns present averages of large variety of vegetables including eggplant, lettuce, onions, cucumbers, melons, etc.
/3  Figures refer specifically to apricots.
/4  Cost of orchard establishment including interest  averaged over productive lifetime of 13 years.






ANNEX 25
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A. Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rate of return from the project is estimated at 11.2%.
The project investment costs and incremental benefit streams and the bases
of project inputs and outputs are presented in Appendices 1-3. Price data
for estimation of benefits are presented in Annex 23. Assumptions and bases
employed in the economic analysis include:
(a) Economic life of the project was assumed to be 35 years.
(b) Investment toward the Euphrates Dam, intakes from the dam
and associated expenditures to date were treated as sunk
costs. Social infrastructure costs associated with farmers'
resettlement from the reservoir area to the project area
which include a primary water supply system, schools,
clinics and community centers, are also excluded from
the project investment costs.  Implications of including
0!^                      a part of these costs in the economic viability and
capital recovery rate are presented in the sensitivity
analysis section of this Annex.
(c) Investment costs streams in the analysis include the
following:
(i) Capital investment costs of canal construction in-
cluding physical contingencies, pro-rated to the
project, on the basis of discounting factor of 10%
per annum, according to the Government's overall
development plans of the Euphrates basin. The econo-
mic rationale for allocation of the investment costs
(costs of main canals) is presented in Appendix 2.
Effects of costing the entire canal investment cost
on the project's economic viability are dealt with
in the subsequent sensitivity tests.
(ii) 0 & M costs, inclusive of annual pumping energy costs
estimated at financial rates, and operation of village
garage and workshops.
(iii) Costs for renewal of appropriate items of pumping
stations' equipment, according to the expected
actual expenditure schedule.
0



ANNEX 25
Page 2
(iv)  Full costs of extension.
(v) Consultant costs.
(vi) Bilharzia control expenditure.
(d) Social opportunity cost of family labor was assumed to
be zero. The effects of costing family labor on the
economic viability of the project are dealt with in the
sensitivity analysis.
B, Sensitivity Tests
Assumptions                                                  Economic Rate of Return
A.    The basic run excluding sunk costs                                   11,2%
B.    Include all unallocated project investment costs
against the Project                                                  8.2%
C.    Include in the first year investment stream LS 29-112
million, which represents 6.5-25% of the total sunk
costs incurred towards the Euphrates Dam. 1/                    8.0-10.2%
D.    10% construction costs overrun                                       10.4%
E.    Include social infrastructure costs of iS 12
million in the 7-year investment period                             10.9%
F.    Cost 50% of family labor at ongoing farm wages                        9.9%
G.    10% reduction in net incremental benefits                            10.0%
H.    15% reduction in net incremental benefits                             9.4%
I.    10% increase in net incremental benefits                             12.4%
J.    10% construction costs overrun combined with
15% reduction in net incremental benefits                            8.6%
K.    Two-year delay in water supplies being made avail-
able to the project                                                 10.5%
1/   The estimated total cost of the embankment and ancillary structures is
LS 894 million. Cost allocation between power and agriculture was assumed
to be on a 50:50 basis. The area to be served by the project represents
about 6.5% of the indicative planning figure given for the total irrigated
area which couild uultimatplvh benefit from the dam.  while this 6.5% would
represent the minimum allocable share of the sunk cost of the dam to the
project, it does not take into account the time preference factor.  Twenty-
five percent was arbitrarily taken as the upper limit of the allocable sunk
cost towards the project when the time preference factor is taken into account.



0
S !RIA
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Gross Value of Project Output and Production Costs With and Without Project
('000 LS)
y e a r
Category                    1       2        3       4        5        6        7       8        9       10      11       12       13       14      15-34
(1974)  (1975)  (1976)  (1977)  (1978)  (1979)  (1980)  (1981)  (1982)  (1983)  (1984)  (1985)  (1986)  (1987) (1988-2007)
With Proiect
Gross Value of Proiect OutDut A
Undeveloped area                    6,161   6,161   6,161   6,161   3,768   1,459            -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -         -
Developed area:
Crops                                  -       -        -   6,734  21,069  37,559  56,445  71,494  78,943  85,285  90,565  93,954  95,960  96,133   96,133
Livestock                                      -        -     407   1,310  2.,371   3.523   4.655   5.300   5.973   6.524   7.022   7.022   7.022    7.022
Total                           6,161   6,161   6,161  13,302  26,147  41,389  59,968  76,149  84,243  91,258  97,089 100,976 102,982 103,155  103,155
Production Costs /2
Undeveloped area                    2,645   2,645   2,645   2,645   1,616         602        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -         -
Developed area:
Crops                                  -       -        -   2,876   9,003  15,977  23,720  29,638  31,971  34,042  35,949  37,374  38,183  38,246   38,246
Livestock                              -       _        -      34      102      170     237      298      309     331      352      374      374     374       374
Total                           2,645   2,645   2,645   5,555  10,721  16,749  23,957  29,936  32,280  34,373  36,301  37,748  38,557  38,620   38,620
Net Value of Production                3,516   3,516   3,516   7,747  15,426  24,640  36,011  46,213  51,963  56,885  60,788  63,228  64,425  64,535   64,535
Without Project
Gross value of production output (1974-2002) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 6,161
Production costs                      ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  2,645
Net value of production                ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  3,516
Value of Net Incremental Production          -        -       -   4,231  11,910  21,124  32,495  42,697  48,447  53,369  57,272  59,712  60,909  61,019   61,019
/1 At 1980 farmgate economic value at 1973 constant prices.
/2 Family labor not costed; hired labor negligible.






ANNEX 25
Appendix 2
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Allocation of Investment Costs Between Project and Non-Project Areas
1.        Of the total gross area of 116,080 ha that would finally be served
by the Lower Main Canal, 39% lies within the project area, and only part of
the cost of the canal has been attributed to the project in the basic econ-
omic analysis. The proportion to be attributed to the project has been cal-
culated by aggregating the discounted benefits to be obtained from different
sections of the canal serving both project and non-project areas and charging
to the project a percentage of the total cost (actually about 49%) equal to
the percentage of the total of discounted benefits that would lie within the
project area, when areas are developed according to present development plans.
A discounting rate of 10% was used. The sensitivity of the cost estimates
attributable to the project with respect to discounting rate was tested by
using an alternative discounting rate of 8%. This resulted in a 48% alloca-
*        tion of the cost, indicating relative insensitivity.
2.        Units of area were used as a direct measure of relative benefits
on the assumption that benefits were directly proportional to area. The
time schedule used for the development of different areas served by the
Lower Main Canal (Annex 11) was as follows:



ANNEX 25
Appendix 2
Page 2
Year            Within the Project           Outside the Project
Gross Area (ha)
1974
1975
1976                   -
1977                 5,600                        22,600 /1
1978                11,200                           -
1979                11,200
1980                11,200                           -
1981                 6,700                        10,000 /2
1982                   -                          17,876 7T
1983                                               8,585 72
1984                   -                          11,122 7
Total          45,900                        70,183
/1   Pilot areas.
/2   Lower Main Canal High Lift Pump Area and Shininah Canal
Gravity Extension Area.
/3   Euphrates Valley Rehabilitation Area (Annex 11).
Note:     Total gross area served by Lower Main Canal = 116,083 ha.
Minor items which could be allocated to outside the project such as access
roads, central workshops, engineering consulting services and maintenance
equipment, have been fully allocated to the project for convenience.



ANNEX 25
Appendix 3
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Investment Costs and Net Incremental Benefit Streams
Project        Investment    Incremental
Years           Costs       Net Benefits
(LS '000)
1             23,470             0
2             40,640             0
3             70,520             0
4             63,080         4,231
5             80,280        11,910
6             63,360        21,124
7             20,040        32,495
8              6,970        42,697
9              5,360        48,447
10              5,360        53,369
11              8,510        57,272
12              5,190        59,712
13              5,040        60,909
14              5,O40        61,019
15              5,040
16              8,360
17              5,040k
18              5,040
19              5,o4O
20             20,040
21              8,340
22              8,360
35              8,360        61,019






SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
BALIKH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Annual Labor Requirements
Without Project                                                 With Project
Crop                              Familly                    Hired                              Family                  Hired
Ha      MD/hs/77      Total MD     MD/ha      Total MD        Ha       MD/ha     Total MLD    MD/ha       Total MD
('000)                  ('000)                             ('000)                   ('000)
Cotton                   1, 400)     60              84,/       12         16.8       16,493      73(59)/2  1,204(973)   16(0)       264(o)
Wheat (irrigated)       T,-40c       20              28          0            0       13,803      22           304            0          0
Wheat (rainfed)         10,000       14             140          0            0            -       -             -           -           _
Barley (rainfed)        10,000       1h             140          0            0            -       -             -           -           _
Maize                        -        -               -          -            -        8,715      40          349            0           0
Berseem                      -        _                                                4,273      49          209            0           0
Sesame                       -        -               -          _            _        2,905      42          122            0           0
Groundnuts                   -        _               _          _            _        1,500      53(37)       80(56)        0           0
Alfalfa        -             _        _                                                3,018      72(48)      217(145)       0           0
Potatoes                     _                                                         1,453      58           84            0           0
Vegetables                   _        _               _          _            _        2,448    124            304           0           0
.Fruits                      -         -              -           -            -        1,109   (62 /3          69            0           0
(40            44            0           0
(82            91            0           0
Total              22,800                      392                    16.8        55,717                2,964(2,637)            264(0)
/1  MD = man-day.
/2  Figures in parentheses are labor estimates under conditions of machine harvesting.
/3  Labor requirements in year of establishment of fruit orchard (62 MD/ha); second and third year of maintenance (40 MD/ha); and when
bearing (82 MD/ha).






T    U    R    K    E    Y ~         ROI                        Q ~d
-h| Derbbasi-e 4QdlTOrch-lye    3700
KhfBALKHIR RI -A TIIO (AiALPJAIET                                                                                                                                                                iIGATION RHABLTATIO
t~~~~AE POAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                     *    
5  20  40          SD~ ~ ~ ~ ~~0     -M
YRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                                                                                              
BALIKH  IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                               ,                                                  > 
GENERAL LOCATION                                                                                                                              \W,
OLOMETESS ~ ~ ~          ~           ~           ~          ~          ~          ~           D rsZ r )                                                                    )
---    INTERNATIONAL E3OUNDARIES                                                      |/                                                                   ;            LOWER EUPHRATES VALLEY          j     rA
REPUBLIC  -. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ IGTONRHAIITTO
II    RAILROADS                                                                                                        /                                   i       /STUDY AREA|                              _
PAVED ROADS                                                                     '       f'          >                                                         ./ 
_ 350                                  GRAVEL/EARTH SURFACED ROADS                                        r3               TUKY                  >      4Maydn\\                                                                                     TH
0    20           40          50j                                    CYVRUS          i({                         >,\'
KILOMETERS                                                            ',    _            YRIAN ARAB ,l 
MILES                       EOA Leko.C                                                            -       ;                                                       - 
MEDlTERREANEA     T     ,
ISRAEL           -
< ' ' '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA JRRPEBBLBR \   /  E'\
OF. , t 4YP T       .A             UI    A IA 
3P r-             5042MB AARIBA/ 3E  BIS/  \  lrl / Ir a [strJ  zee 1.z t11s  40OI)         4! lor           To EAGHEAE






0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
Of)                                     -
Id                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~010
4<   ~~V 



