CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 469 SYR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Balikh Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 10, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 469 SYR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Balikh Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 10, 1974


﻿0
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 1974, between the SYRIAN ARAB
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project, described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to sixty-three million dollars ($63,000,000) (hereinafter called
the Loan);
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 2.01(9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:


﻿4
"9. The term 'Project' means the project or projects or program or
programs for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Development
Credit Agreement and as the description thereof shall be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and the Bank."
(b)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(c)   Section 6.02(b) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"(b) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any other obligation
under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds (as such terms are defined in the
Development Credit Agreement), or the Development Credit Agreement."
(d)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(e)   Section 7.01(c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds (as
such terms are defined in the Development Credit Agreement), or the
Development Credit Agreement, and such default shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower, or the Association to the Borrower, as the case may be."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such Agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Loan Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of
the Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Bonds" means the bonds provided for in the Loan Agreement; and


﻿5
(e)   "GADEB" means the General Administration for the Development of
the Euphrates Basin, an organization within the Borrower's Ministry of the
Euphrates Dam.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with. the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as provided in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and services (other than services
of consultants) required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of international competition Linder
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972 as revised in October 1972,
and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in such Schedule
3.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February
I and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing


﻿6
August 1, 1984, and ending February 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on August 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to carry out Part J of the Project and to assist the
Borrower in reviewing the design of, and supervising the construction of, works
included in the Project, the procurement of goods for the Project, the development
of operation and maintenance procedures therefor, the formation of an agricultural
extension service and the establishment of operating plans and rules for the Lake
Assad, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying
out the construction works required for the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and


﻿7
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the facilities included in the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. Prior to the settlement or resettlement of people in the area
of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its comments
a detailed plan for such settlement and resettlement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall cause GADEB to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consisteritly maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of GADEB and to maintain separate
records in respect of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause GADEB to: (i) establish and maintain
separate accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of
the Project; (ii) have such separate accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of such separate accounts for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the
Association  such  other information   concerning the accounts and     financial
statements of GADEB as the Association shall from      time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that GADEB be administered at
all times under qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers and with
adequate supporting facilities, and to that end, the Director General of GADEB


﻿8
shall be competent in the management of large irrigated agricultural projects and
shall be assisted by an appropriate agricultural and engineering staff.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall carry out periodical safety inspections of
the Euphrates Dam and its facilities under arrangements satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that its Agricultural Bank be
provided with funds, facilities and other resources adequate to provide medium
and long-term credits to farmers benefiting from the Project for onlending on terms
and conditions commensurate with the needs of the farmers.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall make suitable arrangements to levy and
collect charges from the users of the land irrigated by the works included in Parts
A, B and C of the Project at levels sufficient to cover full operation and maintenance
costs of the irrigation system serving the area of the Project and to recover the
full investment cost of the Project without interest within 35 years.
Section 4.06. If it is established that subsurface drainage facilities are needed,
the Borrower shall cause such facilities to be provided, where and when needed.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administrvtion, operations, resources and expenditures of GADEB
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,


﻿9
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association P1I such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of GADEB
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,


﻿10
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date October 10, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.03, 4.04 and 4.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Euphrates Dam of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of the Euphrates Dam
P.O. Box 4451
Damascus
Syrian Arab Republic
Cable address:
MIFRAT
Damascus


﻿*                                 11
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America as of the day and year first above written.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s / Sabbah Kabbany
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Director, Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middie East and North Africa
Regional Office


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Civil works                   45,000,000         45% of total ex-
penditures
II.   Equipment and                 6,000,000
materials
(a)  imported                                    100% of foreign
exchange expend-
itures
(b)  locally                                     75% of total
procured                                   expenditures
III.  Consultants'                  3,000,000          100% of foreign
services (Part J                                 expenditures
of the Project)
IV.  Other consultants'             4,000,000          100% of foreign
services                                         expenditures
V.   Unallocated                   15,000,000
TOTAL        73,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;


﻿13
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category IV on account of expenditures
incurred after January 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $150,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under Category 1, 11, III or IV
shall decrease, the amount of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan then
allocated to such Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by
the Association and by the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the
Credit, by the Bank, by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Category I, II, III or IV
shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association and
by the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank,
at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount


﻿14
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, subject, however, to the requirements
for contingencies, as determined by the Association and by the Bank or, after
full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, in respect of any other
expenditures; and
(c)  if the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement and of the Loan
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or, of the proceeds of the Loan and the Association and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association and the Bank under the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit
and of the Loan as in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit or, after full withdrawal
of all amounts of the Credit, of the proceeds of the Loan.
6.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category
I or 11(b) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association and the Bank or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under any such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunIer shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the development of irrigated agriculture in an area of
48,000 ha gross or 41,000 ha net, (including about 50% or 800 ha of Tel es Samen
cooperative farm) in the Balikh River Basin, including the resettlement of farmers
that will be displaced by the filling of Lake Assad.
The Project includes the following parts:
A.    construction of a 148 km main supply canal to convey water from
Lake Assad to the area of the Project and adjacent areas;
B.    construction of an irrigation distribution system, including pumping
facilities and associated power lines and facilities, and on-farm
development of about 41,000 ha (net), of which about 10,000 ha
would be served by such pumping facilities from the gravity supply
system;
C.    construction of surface drainage facilities;
D.    procurement of farm    machinery and equipment, of vehicles and
equipment, including telecommunications equipment, for operation
and  maintenance, supervision   of construction   and  agricultural
extension;
E.    construction of roads, water supply facilities, and building for schools,
clinics and community activities for 28 villages;
F.    construction of four maintenance and service centers, 68 garages and
18 repair shops;
G.    utilization of consultants' services for engineering, extension and
training, soil and water management and operational studies of Lake
Assad;
H.    establishment of an experimental farm in the area of volcanic soils
for the study of methods of irrigation and crop production;
I.    the intensification of the Borrower's program  for the control of
bilharzia and malaria; and


﻿16
J.    use of consultants' services for the preparation of a master plan for
the rehabilitation of agriculture in the Euphrates Valley between the
Halabie-Zelabie Gorge and Abou-Kemal at the Syria-Iraq border, for
the preparation of a feasibility study of a rehabilitation project covering
about 55,000 ha on the right bank of the river in the Valley and
for the preparation of detailed designs and contract documents for
the said area.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Part 1
1.   Non-Syrian contractors shall not be required to register in Syria as
a condition of bidding for any contract. Where said registration is
required of a non-Syrian contractor after he has been awarded the
contract, the Borrower shall take such action as may be necessary to
ensure his prompt registration.
2.    With respect to any contract under Category I or II of Schedule 1
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000, or more, for civil works
or $50,000, or more, for equipment and materials:
(a)   before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   after bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to whom it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the
consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the said consultants, and the
reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c)   the terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
0


﻿18
(d)   two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract.
3.    (a)  With respect to any other contract for equipment, materials and
civil works, except those referred to in Part 2 of this Schedule,
procurement shall be made pursuant to general conditions to
be furnished by the Borrower to the Association and approved
by the Association; with respect to such contract, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(b)   With respect to any contract inder Part 2 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawals ' of funds from  the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract.
Part 2
1.   Notwithstanding paragraph 2.1 of the Guidelines described in Section
2.03 of this Agreement, contracts for the construction of village
community buildings, village water supply facilities and administrative
buildings shall be procured through local competitive bidding following
the usual procedures of GADEB.
2.    Contracts for imported   equipment, materials and    supplies not
exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 need not be procured through
international competitive bidding and shall be procured in accordance
with the procurement procedures of the Borrower in force on the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, provided that such contracts
shall not exceed in the aggregate $100.000 equivalent.


