                            Azerbaijan Highway Project-(Credit3517-AZ)
                                        -
                         Proposed Amendment to the CreditAgreement3517-A2



     1.     This memorandumseeks        the ExecutiveDirectors'approval     to amend the Credit
    Agreement (3517-AZ)for the Azerbaijan Highway Project in orderto utilize project savings
    of US$ 15to 16million (about 30 percent of the credit amount)to construct a bypass around
    the city of Tovuz in western Azerbaijan. The proposed amendment is therefore considered a
    significantamendment by the application of BP 13.25andrequires the approval of the
    Executive Directors.

    2.      The bypass wouldincludea14-kilometer-longhighway,located           along the existing
    Ganja-Gazah road and bridge over the Tovuz Riveron the eastern sideof the city of Tovuz.
                               a

I   Background

    3.      The Board of Directorsapproved the AzerbaijanHighwayProject for atotalamount
    of SDR 31.5 million (US$40 million equivalent) on July 25, 2001. About 60% of the funds
    are committed and 30% disbursed. The current closing date is June 30, 2005. The original
    project objectives were: (a) promoting trade and economic growth by improving access and
    lowering transportcosts for goods and passenger traffic moving along the east-West Highway
    fromBaku       to Georgia,betweenGanjaandthetown              of Gazakh; (b) improvingthe
    organization, management,efficiencyand maintenancepractices of Azerbaijan's national road
    administration and; (c) improving the quality of roads and transport services availableto the
    low income rural population servedby the East-West Highway andthe tertiary road network
    connectedto it.

    4.      The RoadTransService   Department     of theAzerbaijanMinistry       of Transport is
    implementing the project satisfactorily.Allthemonitoringindicatorsarecurrentlyrated
     satisfactory. All the auditshave been submittedas required; there are no accountability issues
     and the project is in good standing withregardtoauditcompliance.Thefirstroadwork
     contract is 98%completed andfull completionis expected very soon. The four other contracts
     of the project were signedayearagoandthecontractorshavestarted            the works,despite
     delays dueto some necessary and well-supported modificationsin the design of several road
     segments.Completion is expected by late 2005 or early 2006thus requiring an extension
    beyond the current closing date.

     5.     This roadproject is one of the first supported by internationallendinginstitutions in
     Azerbaijan,and the firstone by theWorldBank.Asnobenchmark                 was available,the
     estimation of the project costs was therefore rather conservative. The implementationof the
     projectproved nevertheless to be less expensivethanexpectedandresulted         in significant
     savings. Including contingenciesandlatemodifications,US$10to11            million.outofthe
     US$40 million .equivalentof the credit agreement have thus been saved. It is also expected
     that about US$5 million may be available due to the depreciation of the USD compared to
     SDR.

The Proposed Use of theSavings

6.       The RoadTransServiceDepartment                     of theAzerbaijanMinistry    of Transporthas
proposed using thesavingsto build a bypassfor the city of Tovuz in western Azerbaijan. The
bypass would achieve the realization of the following objectives: (i) to improve the quality
and capacityof the East-West Highway;(ii) to improve traffic environment and access,traffic
safety of all modes of traffic includingnon-motorized trafficin the village of Tovuz.

The Rationale for Using the Savingsto Build TovuzBypass

7.Thetown             of Tovuz is located on the strategically important East-West Highway which
links Azerbaijan with Georgia. The highway crosses over the riverTovuzjust before thecity
of Tovuz,andthe bridge there is the only crossingthatconnectsthepopulationwest                         of
Tovuz, including the Azeri minority in Georgia, to major parts of Azerbaijan. Compared to
the current project,constructionof the bypass would:

         (i)    Increasenetworkredundancy.                  The construction of the Tovuz bypasswould
                provide an alternativerouteto crossthe river and thus form desirable redundancy
                 in the road network.
         (ii) Increase traffic capacity. The bypass would increase the capacity of              the East-
                 West highway.
         (iii) Improvelocal
                         the environment                        in Tovuz. Thebypasswould
                                                                                      avoid           the
                modification of the alignmentof the throughcity segment, requiredif done on its
                 own to reach the minimum standards for principalmainroad.This
                                                                            a
                 modification,needed in the currentproject,iscostly(aboutUS$700,000)and
                 worsens the access to the adjoining proprieties. Furthermore, re-routing through
                 traffic aroundTovuz would reduce traffic congestioninthe city andimprove
                 both local safety and air quality.
                Improve trafficsafety. The bypass wouldease the trafficon the eastern approach
                to TOVUZ, a currenttrafficblack spot'.

8.       The RoadTransService Department of the Azerbaijan Ministry of Transport carried
out a preliminary feasibility study of the proposed bypass, which the Association reviewed
and found satisfactory. A cost estimateof the bypass amountsto US$10 to US$12 million. It
would thus be fullycovered by the savings. Besides, the economic casefor the constructionof
the bypass is strong,even omitting the safety benefitsreferred to above.Theeconomic,
analysis indicates anet present valueof US$30 million and an economic internalrate of return
of 72 percent. An alternative alignment analysis and an environmental assessment study are
currently on-going andwill be reviewed by the Association when completedin spring2005.

Safeguard Policies

9.       The original project was         rated             category B forsafeguard     policies OP 4.01
(environmental assessment). With the addition of the bypass, the project is now rated as an
environmental category A, as land acquisition is necessary, and safeguard policies OP 4.12
applies, as involuntary resettlement may occur. Preliminary studies have pointed out that the
construction ofthe bypass would not require substantial land acquisition, and that resettlement


  A black spotis a location withan accumulation of traffic accidents.

of people or businesses is unlikely. The Credit is financing on-going alternative alignment
analysisand an environmentalassessmentstudy.Itwilldeterminetheexactextent             of any
potential resettlement.TheEAandEMP          for thenewsub-componentareexpectedto          be
submitted before June 30, 2005 and the works for the new sub-component will begin only
after the submission of theacceptableEA/EMP.Landacquisition         will proceed only after
procedures for compensation and replacementhave been reviewed and found satisfactoryby
the Association.

The ProposedAmendment

10.    The proposedamendment,requested by the Deputy Prime MinisterSharifov by letter
dated September 17, 2004, is designed to incorporate the Tovuz bypass into the Azerbaijan
Highway Project in modifying the following points:(i) adding the bypass as a component of
Part A schedule2 of the project; (ii) extendingthe closing date of the project to October 31,
       -
2007; (iii) adding the referenceto the new EMP, and (iv) increasing the amount threshold for
the SelectionBased on Consultant's Qualificationto US$200,000. Inparticular:

11.    Adding the bypass as a component of Part A schedule 2 of theproject. The original
                                                    -
project deals only with rehabilitation of highways. To incorporate the Tovuz bypass to the
project,aconstructionitemmustbeadded         to the componentsdescription of the original
Credit Agreement.

12.    Extending the closingdate of theproject. Thecurrentclosing date is June 30, 2005.
The detail design of thebypass is expected to be completed by the currentclosingdate.
Twenty-seven supplementary months are required to tender and execute the work needed to
build the Tovuz bypassforwhich there is a detailed time-bound plan.

13.    Adding the reference to the newEMP. AspecificEMP will be prepared for thesub-
component. No addition is required for the land acquisition as adequate wording is already
includedin theoriginalDevelopment Credit Agreement.

14.    Increasing the threshold for the procurement of consultantsunderConsultant          's
Qualification (CQ). Many of the "Tovuz"studies to be performed by consultantsrange
between US$100,000 and US$200,000. To complete the bypass in the shortest time, and in
view of the amount of the assignments, CQis far more adapted than QCBS envisioned above
$100,000 at appraisal. Besides, sincethe Credit Agreement was signed, the official threshold
of theBank      for theSelectionBased     on Consultant'sQualification     has increasedto
US$200,000. The increase of the threshold for CQ intends both to comply with the current
World Bankpractice and to safely simplifyunnecessary heavyprocedures.

