E455
REV. VOL. 1
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
ROAD TRANSPORT SERVICE DEPARTMENT
77~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
a~~~a
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r7 
IDA Credit 3517 - AZ
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR TOVUZ BYPASS
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC
ASSESSMENT
FINNROAO
Baku, August 2005



Contents
Executive Summary                                                   5
Brief Project Description                            5
Main Environmental Impacts                           6
Socioeconomics                                       9
Capacity Development and Training                     10
1.   Introduction                                                   10
1.1      Project Background and Objectives of Study           10
1.2      Methodology and Scope of the Study                   11
1.3      The Study Area                                       12
2.    Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework                    13
2.1      World Bank EA Policy and Procedures                   13
2.2      National EA Policy and Procedures                     14
2.3      Legal and Regulatory Framework                        15
2.4      Administrative Framework                             19
3.    Project Description                                           20
3.1      Road Alternatives Under Study                        20
3.2      Design Parameters and Structures                     21
3.3      Proposed Borrow Pits                                 22
3.4      Justification of the Project                         23
3.5      Proposed Schedule for Implementation                 23
3.6      Life Span of the Proposed Project                    23
3.7      Extent and Quality of Data                           23
4.    Environmental Characteristics of the Project Area             24
4.1      Physical Environment                                 24
4.1.1    Climate                                        24
4.1.2    Soil Characteristics                           25
4.1.3    Topography and Land Use                        25
4.1.4    Hydrology and Water Resources                  26
4.2      Biological Environment                               27
4.3      Socio-economic Characteristics                       28
4.3.1    Settlement Pattern and Local Roads             28
4.3.2    Economic Activity on the Project Area          29
4.3.3    Population in the Project Area                 30
4.3.4    Occupation and Income Sources of People        30
4.3.5    Unemployment                                   31
4.3.6    Migration                                      31
4.3.7    Refugees, Internally displaced and indigenous people  31
4.4      Cultural Heritage                                    31
4.5      Protected Area                                       31
5.    Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures                 31
5.1      Overall Environment Sensitivity of the Study Corridors  31
5.2      Impacts on the Physical/Natural Environment and their
Mitigation                                           33
5.2.1    Impact during Construction                     33
5.2.2    Impact during Operation                        37
5.3      Impacts on the Human/Social Environment and their
Mitigation                                           37
2



5.3.1.   Impact during Construction                     37
5.3.2.   Impact during Operation and their mitigation   40
5.4      Socioeconomics                                       41
5.4.1    Impacts on National Economy                    41
5.4.2    Impacts on Agriculture and Animal Husbandry    42
5.4.3    Impacts on Household Economy and/or Loss of
Livelihood                                     42
5.4.4    Impact on Living Conditions                    43
5.4.5    Impact on Local Traffic and Traffic Accidents  43
5.4.6    Dislocation of People and/or Property          43
5.4.7    Impacts Causing Demographic Changes            44
5.4.8    Impacts on Gender                              44
5.5      Cultural and Historic Sites                          44
6.    Analysis of Alternatives                                      45
6.1      Comparative Assessment of Alternatives from Environmental
Point of View                                        45
6.2      Comparative Assessment of Alternatives from Socioeconomic
Point of View                                        46
6.3      Without Project Scenario                             47
7.    Public Consultation                                           48
7.1      Public Consultation Meetings                         48
7.2      Information Disclosure                               49
8.    Environmental Management Plan                                 50
8.1      Institutional Responsibilities and Arrangements      50
8.2      Environmental Management Plan                        51
8.3      Monitoring of Socioeconomic Impacts                  53
8.4      Capacity Development and Training                    53
8.5      Cost Estimate                                        54
8.6      General Observations                                 55
9.    Resettlement and Land Acquisition Plan                        56
9.1      Number of Land Owners in the Project Area            56
9.2      Price of land                                        56
9.3      Acquisition and Compensation Procedure and Schedule  57
References                                                             59
List of People Met                                                     61
List of Tables
Table 2-1: Overview on the Existing National Regulatory Framework Related
to Environmental Protection and Management in the Road Sector          15
Table 2-2: Overview on the Existing National Regulatory Framework Related
to Social Aspects in the Road Sector                                   16
Table 3-1: Comparative Assessment of Cut and Fill in Design Alternatives  23
Table 4-1: Population of settlements affected by land acquisition      30
Table 6- 1: Comparative Over view on Environmental Implications of Alternatives  47
Table 8- 1: Summary of Institutional Responsibilities for the
Implementation of the Environmental Monitoring Programme               51
Table 8-2: Summary Environmental Monitoring Programme                  52
Table 8-3: Environmental Monitoring and Mitigation Costs (in US $) for Alignment 2  54
3



Table 9- 1: Possible Land Acquisition for Alignment 2                   56
List of Figures
Fig. 1-1: Location Map                                                  11
Fig. 3-1: Road Alternatives under Study                                 20
Fig. 3-2: Design Alternatives for the Tovuz Chay Bridge:
a) 'low bridge' b) 'high bridge'                                       22
Fig.4-1: Rose of winds in Tovuz city. Year 2004                         24
Fig. 4-2: Soils of the Study Area: 6) 'Meadow' soils, 10): 'Chestnut' soils  25
Fig. 4-3: Area Map                                                      29
Fig. 5-1: Potential Development of Noise Pollution 2007 - 2027          40
Fig. 6-1: Profiles and Sections of the Bridge Design Alternatives under Study  45
Appendixes
A     Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan
B     Minutes of Public Consultation Meetings
C     Presentation for Public Consultation Meetings
D     Pictures from the Study Area
Abbreviations
ADB   Asian Development Bank              MOT    Ministry of Transport
App. Appendix                             NOx    Nitrogen Oxides
CO    Carbon Monoxide                     NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
CSC   Construction Supervision Consultant  PH    Negative logarithm of hydrogen ion
dBA   'A' weighted equivalent decibel     concentration
DRTSD         District Road Transport Service  PIU  Project Implementation Unit
Dept.                                     PM     Particulate Matter
EA Environmental Assessment               ROW    right of way
EBRD European Bank for Reconstruction and  RTSD  Road Transport Service Department
Development                               SER    State Ecological Review
EHSM Environmental Health and Safety      SS     Suspended Solid
Manager                                   STD    Sexually Transmitted Diseases
EMP   Environmental Monitoring Programme  TA     Technical Assistance
ESS   Ecology and Safety Sector           TACIS Technical Assistance for the
IDA   International Development Association  Commonwealth of  Independent States
IDB   Islamic Development Bank            TORs Terms of Reference
IEE   Initial Environmental Examination   WB     The World Bank
KFAED         Kuwait Fund for Arab        TRACECA      Transport Corridor Europe,
Economic Development                      Caucasus, Asia
MENRMinistry of Ecology and Natural
Resources
MOH Ministry of Health
This EA was prepared by FINNROAD ltd., reviewed and updated by Independent
Consultant Mr. Bakhtiyar Karimov.
4



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Brief Project Description
Introduction
The Government of Azerbaijan (GoA) has obtained a Credit (No. 3517-AZ) from the
International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank Group towards the cost of the
Azerbaijan Highway Project, which rehabilitates the Ganja-Gazakh road section. The GoA
intends to apply a portion of the proceeds of this Credit to construct a bypass around Tovuz
town. This bypass is a section of the existing east-west corridor between Baku and Tbilisi and as
such an integral part of the TRACECA1 which links Europe to Asia.
Traffic is predicted to rise at an annual rate of 6% on the TRACECA. The existing 5 km road
through Tovuz town and the steep grade of the road before and after the bridge are assessed as
potential future bottlenecks and safety risks. The proposal for a new bypass for Tovuz has been
made to mitigate these risks and because there is no scope to upgrade the road through the town
to a Category 1 standard due to the infrastructure conditions inside Tovuz.
The construction of a bypass for Tovuz will relieve its inhabitants from transit traffic, which
constitutes the major part of the present traffic load, thereby improving road safety and reducing
nuisance through noise, fumes and dust.
The feasibility of this development is being assessed through: (i) an analysis of alternatives in
terms of engineering and economics, and (ii) an environmental and social assessment. A key
output of this feasibility study is the recommendation of a 'Preferred Solution' for detailed
engineering. The objective of this Environment Assessment report (EA) is to contribute to a
solution that shall be economically efficient, environmentally sound and designed according to
international standards.
Alternatives
Two alternate corridors for a northern detour of Tovuz town have been compared and assessed
in this EA.
* Alternative 1 has a total length of 14.1 km and does not require any resettlement or
destruction of infrastructure. It rejoins the M 1 to the northwest of Jalilli on the boundary of
the Agstafa District.
* Alternative 2 is about 10.4 km long and also does not require any resettlement. After
splitting from the common corridor with Alternative 1, Alternative 2 turns in a western
direction, then runs to the south-west between Jallilli and Duz-Jirdahan and connects to the
MI in the south-east of Jalilli.
A 3rd Alternative was eliminated from further consideration in the early stages of the study
because the required design parameters for a Category 1 road could not be met.
The existing road through Tovuz cannot be widened or upgraded to the planned future standard
design for the M 1 and as a result the 'without-project scenario' cannot be recommended for
consideration either.
Transport Corridor, Europe, Caucasus, Asia
5



Main Environmental Impacts
The potential direct physical impact that any of the 2 alternatives may entail is expected to
mainly take place inside the boundaries of the future ROW (2 x 30 m from the centerline). This
area shall be acquired for the implementation of the Project, not only to allow for the
construction of the 2 lane bypass but also to allow for the future upgrading of the road to a 4
lane standard. In the area of the future bridge over the Tovuz Chay the direct physical impact
will affect a wider corridor due to cuts on the river bank. Additional direct and indirect physical
impacts outside of this ROW will result from the siting and operation of the contractor's
yard/worker's camp, material extraction and transport from the borrow pits.
Regarding the human environment, the socio-economic implications of road construction in the
two alternative study corridors may be severe due to the need to acquire and overbuild large
areas of private agricultural land that presently generate reliable income for many families of
Tovuz and the surrounding villages. With respect to other aspects of the human environment,
both study corridors are generally assessed as moderately sensitive to the siting and operation of
a new road.
Impacts during Construction
The bypass will be constructed as a "class 2" road with two lanes of single carriage way with
the following parameters:
- the maximum total width of the road is 15 m in compliance with the parameters of the
Ganja-Gazakh road, the rehabilitation of which is underway
- lanes width is 7.5 meters (2x3.75 m)
- the maximum shoulder width is 7.5 m (2x3.75 m) of which 4 meters (2x2 m) will be
paved with asphalt concrete
- the cross fall of the lanes is 2% and of the shoulders is 4%
Bypass construction includes the construction of bridges over the Tovuz chay river and an
irrigation canal.-The width of the road on the bridges would be 11.5m, of which: 7.5m (2x3.75)
are lanes, Im (2x0.5) are shoulders and 3m (2xl.5) are walkways.
The construction of the road is planned to be finished within two years. During the construction
period activities such as site preparation, construction of bridges and culverts. borrow pits
operations would cause direct and indirect impacts on the environment. In order to identify and
manage these impacts the Environment Management Plan (EMP) has been developed.- The
potential impacts associated with the construction and then management is summarized briefly
below.
According to current construction practices and norms, the total workforce for the bypass
construction is expected to be around 150 people. The number of non-local engineers and
professional workers is expected to be between 40-50% with the rest of the workforce being
hired among the local population. To accommodate the outside workforce, the contractor should
establish a work camp. The contractor's work camp would include living and eating areas for
the non-local workforce, equipment storage and servicing sites, as well as material stockpiles. If
improperly designed and operated, work camps can create pollution and environmental hazards
through sewage, garbage and vermin; be a source for spills from the operation and servicing of
construction equipment; and induce pressure on scarce local limited resources (e.g. drinking
water). With respect to the operation of the work camp, prior to the construction, the contractor
shall submit for RTSD's approval a plan and description of his work camp and proposed
measures to avoid or reduce adverse environmental impacts resulting from its installation and
6



operation. These measures shall be fully compliant with the provisions of the construction
norms. The storage, transportation and use of large quantities of diesel, fuel and other petroleum
products may cause chronic oil product pollution, entailing the impairment of groundwater
aquifers and surface water. This is specifically relevant where construction takes place in and
over rivers and streams. To mitigate such impacts the contractor should comply with the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources' (MENR) requirements and instruct its
workforce accordingly.
Site preparation will entail the stripping and temporary storage of about 74,000m3 of topsoil.
Depending on the individual location, this may bring about the risk of erosion of exposed
ground or topsoil and can also cause increased water runoff and siltation of watercourses. Large
quantities of materials taken from cuts, such as on the approach to the Tovuz valley, could lead
to erosion and the siltation of the river having an adverse affect on aquatic ecology if not
properly disposed of immediately after extraction. Without proper management excess material
may also lead to the loss of agricultural land, impairment of the biological environment and/ or
disfigurement of the landscape. To reduce the above-mentioned impacts, the Contractor should
reduce the area of ground clearance, minimize the use of borrow pits due to cutting
requirements for the bridge construction, and replant disturbed areas.
Heavy machinery moving around the construction corridor can create soil compaction, which
may harm the soil's further potential as farmland and impair drainage. The Contractor should
minimize potential adverse impacts related to site preparation through the implementation of
such protection measures as creation of temporary accesses or temporary removal of topsoil for
the time of construction.
Borrow pit operations if poorly managed could lead to chronic erosion and siltation of the
adjoining land, and thus have substantial environmental impacts on soil, water and the natural
environment. This could disfigure the landscape, if rehabilitation is neglected or not properly
implemented. Material transport from these sites may cause nuisance to settlements in the
vicinity of haulage routes through dust, noise and material spillage. In accordance with local
legislation the Contractor will establish a rehabilitation plan for each borrow site, to mitigate
such impacts.
During the construction of bridges and culverts the runoff pattern of surface waters could be
impaired and water quality affected due to an increase in the silt load. Embankments and
construction materials (fill, gravel and sand) could be washed out by rainwater and contribute to
the siltation of channels or the river. To minimize the risk of siltation on the Tovuz Chay bridge
construction works shall be confined to the period between June and December. The discharge
of sediment-laden construction water (e.g. from areas containing dredged spoil) directly into
surface water will be forbidden.
During construction, heavy metals, oils, toxic substances, and debris from construction traffic
and spillage may be absorbed by soils at the construction sites and carried with runoff water to
the river and other water sources. A further source of surface water pollution may be the
cleaning of construction vehicles and equipment in the river or leakages from machinery or
engines that are not properly maintained or controlled. A run-off control plan shall be
developed by the construction contractor which focuses on managing potential problems at
source, this will include as a minimum provisions for managing run-off from vehicle washing;
the containment of fuels, chemicals and waste stored on site; measures to control spillage
during vehicle refueling; the use of tarps on vehicles transporting materials; and the prompt
clean up of spills.
7



Degradation of air quality is likely to result from various sources like exhaust emissions from
the operation of construction machinery, and fugitive emissions from aggregates, concrete, and
asphalt plants. Dust will be generated on the haul roads, unpaved roads, exposed soils, and
material stockpiles. Mitigation of these impacts will be achieved by implementing a special
program that will be prepared prior to the beginning of the construction. The program would
include such remedial measures as strict technical control of construction machinery on
emission standards, avoiding traffic congestions, and watering of unpaved local roads.
Road construction will require the use of heavy machinery and thus entail high and sustained
noise during equipment operation. Where construction takes place in the neighborhood of
human settlements the temporary averse impact on human welfare cannot be totally avoided. It
will, however, be reduced through (i) the restriction of working hours to between 0600 to 2100
hours within a 500 m distance of the adjoining settlements; (ii) strict enforcement of a
maximum noise level of 70 dBA in the vicinity of the construction site; and (iii) ban of improper
functioning machinery that causes excessive noise pollution from the construction sites.
Impacts during Operation
In comparison with the construction period, an environmental impact of the road during its
operation period is considerably lower. But such impacts, as increased air and water pollution,
traffic accidents and injuries, noise and roadside litter would have the potential effect on the
environment, directly and indirectly. In order to identify and manage these impacts the
Environment Management Plan (EMP) has been developed.
During operation run-off water associated with rainwater or melting snow that washes off roads,
bridges, and other impermeable surfaces can lead to deterioration in water quality. As it flows
over these surfaces, water picks up dirt and dust, rubber and metal deposits from tire wear,
antifreeze and engine oil that has dripped onto the pavement, pesticides and fertilizers, and
litter. These contaminants can be carried into the river, soils and other shallow aquifers. To
manage these issues the Contractor engaged to support RTSD will develop a spill management
plan for responding to oil or chemical spills during operation, and will ensure that adequate
hands-on training is provided to RTSD for the implementing this plan. A spill contingency plan
for cleaning up hazardous and toxic materials (i.e. oil, fuel, toxic substances) has already been
recommended in the frame of Initial Environment Examination of the Yevlax-Ganja Road
Rehabilitation Project.2  In case it would not be realised, the Road Transport Service
Department's (RTSD) the Ecology and Safety Sector (ESS) ESS should develop such a plan
when the present Project comes into implementation. In the approach to the bridge over the
Tovuz Chay to mitigate such risks it is also proposed to enhance safety by providing specific
signals at reasonable distances from the bridge, including speed reduction signals if needed.
Detailed calculations on the impact of road operations on air quality have not been made in this
present study. But taking into consideration the fact that in the frame of Yevlax-Ganja Road
Rehabilitation Project this calculations were done and the area of research, the traffic intensity is
almost the same, reference was made to the available data which provides some figures on the
issue. According to calculations of the 'worst case pollutant concentrations' (CO, PM and NO2)
on selected sections ('Yevlax bypass to Ganja bypass east' and 'Ganja bypass') it is predicted
that air quality in general will be in compliance with the national ambient air quality standards.
At the same time, it is highly recommended that the RTSD carry out long-term monitoring to
follow-up on the development of emission concentrations along the new road.
2 ENGCONSULTANT Ltd.: Yevlax-Ganja Road Rehabilitation Project. IEE, Final Report. January 2005
8



Socioeconomics Impacts
In general, the new bypass is clearly preferred by the local people and also accepted by the
people who will lose their agricultural lands against compensation.
The World Bank Mission has completed an economic analysis for the Tovuz bypass and found
it to have a good socioeconomic justification and a high economic rate of return. The total
construction cost estimate for the Tovuz bypass with recommended Alternative 2 and 'high'
elevation bridge over Tovuz Chay river is about $10.0 million. The results of Highway
Development and Management (HDM-4) economic analysis method used by the World Bank
shows that Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) is equal to 15% and therefore the
investment is economically feasible. Better, faster and safer road transportation is expected to
improve local economics, especially agricultural trade. The volume of trade is expected to grow
and have a positive impact on the national economy. The permanent loss of agricultural land
will have negative impacts on agricultural production, but the impacts are not severe at the
macro level. Some shops have benefited from transit traffic, but they mainly depend on local
customers, and impacts at the macro level are insignificant and not very deep on the local level.
About fifty hectares of land, which is owned by more than 200 families, are needed for the new
road, and this land will be lost permanently. About 2.0% additional land will be temporarily
used during the road construction. These lands are owned by private households and villages.
The lands lost are used for crop and vegetable cultivation and for animal grazing. Presently, it is
not known how many households are economically dependent solely on agricultural income,
and would lose livelihood due to the project. If the lost lands are compensated by new
agricultural land, the impacts on agricultural output are temporary, as they are in the case when
the lands are lost only for construction.
The World Bank policy requires that if involuntary land taking and resettlement become
necessary, a clear plan for compensating and assisting displaced persons be prepared by the
borrower. According to this policy the Land Acquisition Plan is to be prepared during the
Project detailed design phase.
The present local roads will stay, although during reconstruction they will go under the
highway. This will give independent movement possibilities to farm equipment and animals.
Additionally some new underpasses will be needed for flocks of sheep and cattle, at least one
between the present roads to the northern villages as well as either sides of the new bridge over
Tovuz River which are used as pasture lands. The number and the locations of these safe
passages should be determined during detailed design and negotiated together with local
farmers.
The present narrow but heavily trafficked road is causing many social and safety problems and
inconveniences to the local people. In the town, one of the biggest complaints relates to traffic
noise. The other major complaint is about accidents associated with heavy transit traffic routing
through the town. The safe movement especially of the school children was the biggest concern.
Traffic accidents can be expected to be less on the old road, while the new good road allows the
use of high speeds which may increase the risk of accidents in the vicinity of the settlements.
This necessitates speed limit regulations along the bypass and constructions of traffic circles or
two level crossings with the local roads.
With a new road, the noise level in Tovuz city will decrease, improving living conditions. If the
transit traffic is moved out of the town, the present road through Tovuz could be improved to
9



better serve the local population and their needs by constructing better and wider sidewalks and
possibly planting trees, or other ways to create aesthetic and safe environment suitable to the
Silk Road.
Capacity Development and Training
RTSD and particularly its ESS will have to perform various environmental management tasks
that are in the frame of the present Project, and according to their official mandate. Just 2 out of
5 staff members of this newly established sector in the RTSD are directly responsible for
environmental issues. However, they do not have the appropriate background knowledge or
practical experience to perform this task. The same applies at the district level where no staff are
yet available to carry out various environmental management tasks.
For this reason, capacity development and training will be required to implement the present
Project in accordance with the relevant national and World Bank (WB) standards, and to start
forming a functioning, effective and efficient ESS in the RTSD that can independently carry out
the implementation and monitoring of environmental management plans. To this regard, its is
recommended that an external advisor to the ESS is engaged to practically support the ESS in
their various day-to-day tasks throughout the construction phase and provide concrete hands on
training on environmental management in road construction and operations. As a further step
the ESS could then, on their part, provide training to the future District staff of the Road
Operations Division, to perform routine environmental monitoring during the operational phase
of this and other projects.
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Project Background and Objective of the Study
Rehabilitation and upgrade of the about 500 km of highway between Baku and the Georgian
border is under implementation within the framework of the Silk Road project of TRACECA
regional program, playing a significant role for Azerbaijan's economic development. With
financial assistance from various donors, road rehabilitation is divided to several sections, which
are currently at various stages of implementation.
The Government of Azerbaijan (GoA) has obtained a credit (No. 3517-AZ) from the
International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank Group towards the cost of
Azerbaijan Highway Project, which rehabilitates the Ganja-Gazakh road section. GoA intends
to apply the proceeds of this credit to be used to construct a bypass around Tovuz town. This
bypass is a section of the existing east-west corridor between Baku and Tbilisi and as such an
integral part of the TRACECA which links Europe to Asia.
It is expected that on the TRACECA, future traffic development will constitute around 6% of
the annual traffic growth. The existing 5 km road through Tovuz town and the steep grade of the
road before and after the bridge are assessed as a potential future bottleneck and safety risk. The
proposal for a new bypass for Tovuz was made to avoid this situation and because the
conditions of infrastructure inside the town do not allow upgrading the road to the planned
Category 1 standard.
The construction of a bypass for Tovuz will relieve its inhabitants from transit traffic, which
constitutes the major part of the present traffic load, thereby improving road safety and reducing
nuisance through noise, fumes and dust.
10



The proponent of this Project is the Road Transport Service Department (RTSD), Ministry of
Transport (MOT). The assignment comprises the conduct of an analysis of alternatives in terms
of engineering and economics, combined with the environmental and social assessment, and it
recommends a 'Preferred Solution' for detailed engineering. The objective of this Environment
Assessment (EA) is to contribute to a solution that shall be economically efficient,
environmentally sound and designed according to international standards.
AZERBAIJAN - Major and Secondary Roads
3         .    E~~RFUSSM,f                       iinaBudal
tsc  _       -    EteSKE                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.Jofr Rorniw
FRig.1-1 L ocK; ,> Ser>ationMpala R
A~~~~~AA
1.w    e thoolg and Scpeofth Sud
C~~~h otndisul  mH  andewl on desk studies incldig xthei andalysis of vareiostmc yhematJic mapsS and thefF
review ofavailableinternetsouRces a hcation.
1.2   Methodology and Scope of the Study
The findings of the present EA are based on data obtained from the conce sted authorities,
interviews with offrcials from the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR) and
the Ministry of Health (MOH) and other relevant parties involved. They are based on previous
studies prepared by TACIS-and ADB-funded consultants (Engconsult Ltd, Finnroad Ltd, Kocks
Consult GmbH) and on desk studies including the analysis of various thematic maps and the
review of available internet sources and other documentation.
Furthermore, the study team carried out a site visit to the Project Region in early February 2005.
The goal of this undertaking was to scrutinize the environmental conditions in the study area, to
meet with the relevant local and district officials and to identify and specify possible impacts
associated with the Project based on up-to-date on-site information.
The significance, and hence acceptability, of the impacts that may result from the Project is
determined by the evaluation of the predicted impacts against environmental standards, public
11



opinion, and expert judgement. Criteria for identifying the significance of impacts include
compliance with the relevant laws or regulations, environmental standards or guidelines as well
as Government policies or plans, if the issues are of concern to officials, NGOs or members of
the public, if public socio-economic conditions, health or amenity may be affected, if the rights
of people will be affected, and if any long term or permanent damage to ecological systems of
national, regional or local value will occur.
A Project may have direct and indirect, positive and negative impacts. Impact assessment will
help to find suitable and acceptable mitigation measures when impacts are expected to be
negative and it also will act as a starting point for later evaluations. An environmental
management plan indicates the measures that are required to avoid or reduce possible adverse
environmental and social/socio-economic impacts to acceptable levels. Some impacts may be
permanent (e.g. loss of land for road) and some may be short term (e.g. loss of yields).
Mitigation measures try to minimize negative impacts when they cannot be avoided.
1.3   The Study Area
The study area has been defined such as to identify and assess the impacts resulting from both
construction and operation of the two road altematives under study (description of alternative
corridors under study: see chapter 6-1).
The potential direct area of influence is comprised of a strip with an average width of about 150
m for each of the alternative corridors under study (Fig.3-1). Within the selected corridor a strip
of some 60 m width the Right of Way, (ROW)) is expected to be directly, i.e. physically
affected by site clearing operations, road construction and associated activities and the
acquisition of land within the future ROW. In the area of the proposed crossing of the Tovuz
Chay river the study corridor has been widened to 400 m for the distance of I km so as to allow
for the design of an optimal horizontal alignment of the road.
The extended area of influence is the space which will or may be indirectly affected by the
construction or operation of the new road. Here, adverse environmental impacts may result from
material extraction (borrow pits), the transportation of these materials between the borrow pits
and the construction site, the installation and operation of the contractor's yard and worker's
camp and solid and liquid and waste disposal. Noise, dust and exhaust fumes that occur during
construction and operation of a new road are further factors that determine the physical extent of
the extended study area. In this context, the existence or non-existence of potential 'receptors',
i.e. human settlements in the vicinity of the respective road corridor, determine the area to be
considered.
Moreover, the Project will induce a series of changes in the surroundings of the existing road
through Tovuz town which will also be addressed in the frame of the EA.
12



2. POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
2.1    World Bank EA Policy and Procedures
As regards WB procedures, the Project has been classified as a 'Category A' project under the
provisions of the OP 4.013 The EA for a Category A project examines a project's potential
negative and positive environmental impacts, compares them with those of feasible alternatives
(including the 'without project' situation), and recommends any measures needed to prevent,
minimize, mitigate or compensate for adverse impacts and improve environmental performance.
The EA of a Category A project considers both, the social and the physical environmental
impacts. Socioeconomic environment includes themes such as land acquisition and resettlement;
indigenous or traditional populations, cultural heritage, aesthetics and landscapes, noise and
human health and safety.
The WB recognizes that socially stable development requires societies to retain and keep alive
ties to their past and their cultural traditions. The Bank's policy as stated in the Operational
Directive 4.50 (updates Operational Policy Note 11.03: "Management of Cultural Property in
Bank-Financed Projects") is to: (a) assist in protecting and enhancing cultural property through
specific project components and (b) decline to finance projects which significantly damage
cultural property , and assist only those that are designed to prevent or minimize such damage.
The WB Operational Policy/Bank Procedure on Involuntary Resettlement (World Bank OP/BP
4.12) which requires WB-assisted projects to avoid or minimize involuntary land taking. If such
cannot be avoided, displaced persons need to be meaningfully consulted, compensated for
lost/damaged assets and assisted in restoring or improving their living standards and livelihood.
The policy requires that if involuntary land taking and resettlement become necessary, a clear
plan for compensating and assisting displaced persons be prepared by the borrower by appraisal
for the Bank's review. Such plan shall be substantially completed prior to the commencement
of civil works.
An environmental mitigation and monitoring plan is also to be elaborated.
WB's policy on public consultation and disclosure follows specific procedures: The EA report
will be presented to both the Government of Azerbaijan and IDA Management and shall serve
as a background document for approval by the competent authority. In accordance with OP/BP
4.01, Environmental Assessment the Borrower (i.e. the Government of Azerbaijan) will have to
make the draft EA Report and Land Acquisition Plan available in Azerbaijan at a public place
accessible to project-affected groups and local NGOs. Moreover, the Borrower must officially
transmit the EA report to the Bank together with the Land Acquisition Plan. Once the EA report
and the Land Acquisition Plan have been locally disclosed and officially received by the Bank,
the Bank will also make them available to the public through the Bank's Infoshop.4
3According to WB's OP 4.01 a proposed project is classified as Category A if it is likely to have significant
adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented. ... EA for a Category A project
examines the project's potential negative and positive environmental impacts, compares them with those of
feasible alternative (including the 'without project' situation), and recommends any measures needed to
prevent, minimize, mitigate or compensate for adverse impacts and improve environmental performance.
Moreover WB procedures for Public Information and Disclosure shall apply.
4The World Bank (2002): The Disclosure Handbook. Operations Policy and Country Services. December
2002.
13



2.2   National EA Policy and Procedures
The EA system in Azerbaijan is characterized as a 'dual' system which currently contains
elements of the SER (State Ecological Review) system inherited from the former USSR and
elements of a 'classic' EA system incorporating the best EA practice as understood in developed
countries.
SER is a mechanism by which the state authorities verify conformity of virtually all proposed
economic activities to environmental requirements. The procedure is supported by the national
framework of environmental legislation and does not require the consideration of alternatives or
mitigation measures nor does it explicitly define the content of an EA report. As implied by the
nature of SER it largely focuses on verifying compliance of the proposed activity to
environmental standards and rules and provides for very limited public participation5.
The 'classic' elements are supported by the procedures that are laid down in the 'EIA
Regulations for Azerbaijan'.6 According to these provisions the EA process is applied to all
development proposals in principle. The official procedure commences with a formal
application based on which the MENR will determine the scope of environmental investigation
to be conducted. If a full EA process is required, then the scope of the EA investigations will be
determined after a scoping meeting which is convened by the MENR with the participation of
the developer.
After the completion of investigations and consultations the developer submits his EA report to
the MENR for approval. The MENR makes the EA report available to the general public and
submits it to the Environmental Review Expert Group which will conduct its own investigations
and produce a review document that is submitted to the MENR. The official approval of the
project may be subject to conditions which can relate to any phase of the project. On accepting
the permission the developer also accepts the conditions attached to the permission which then
become legally binding. In this context one of the standard conditions of the permission will be
that the developer is responsible for monitoring certain set parameters to ensure that the
predicted activities comply with the set conditions and that the environmental impacts are
within the predicted and acceptable limits. While the prime responsibility for monitoring will lie
with the developer, the MENR is required to carry out surprise inspections to check on the
accuracy and reliability of the developer's monitoring results.
As to requirements for social assessment, they are similar to the World Bank practice. Main
principles of EIA deal with prospects of socioeconomic development of region; historic,
cultural, ethnic and other interests of the population of the region. When implementing the EIA
the following consequences of the project are determined: socioeconomic changes in living
conditions of population including employment, demographic changes, and change of social
infrastructure (accounting for aesthetic, cultural, ethnic and other aspects) as stated by Main
State Ecological Expertise: Standards and Regulations on Environmental Control with Respect
to Economic Activity.
In order to confirm the national procedural and technical requirements to be applied to the
preparation of the present EA a consultation meeting was held at the early project stages with
officials from the Department for State Expertise of the Ministry of Environment and Natural
5Bektashi L. and Cherp, A. (2002): Evolution and Current State of Environmental Assessment in Azerbaijan.
Impact Assessment and Project Appraisal, Volume 20, number 4. Guilford, Surrey, 2000
6UNDP: (1996): Handbook for the Environmental Impact Assessment Process in Azerbaijan Baku, 1996
14



Resources, which is the competent authority in this field. After the introduction of the Project,
the explanation of the planned methodology and scope of the environmental study they
officially confirmed that the application of the WB requirements according to OP 4.01 would
satisfy the competent department under the MENR and that no further formal application would
have to be made to the MENR for the determination of the national requirements concerning the
frame and depth of the study.
The MENR also requested that the comments received at the public information meetings
should be appended to the EA report. MENR would review the EA report within a maximum of
60 days after receipt of the report. Three versions in Azeri and one in English should be
submitted.
2.3    Legal and Regulatory Framework
The formal obligation to predict and mitigate potential environmental impacts resulting from
road construction is based on the provisions of the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan on
Environmental Protection (February 1999) and the Law on Automobile Roads (March 2000).
The following table 2-1 provides an overview of these and other relevant legal and regulatory
framework. A short description of the specific application of these provisions in road
construction is also given. Environmental issues of intemational concern (e.g. international
environmental treaties or conventions) or trans-boundary issues of environmental importance
will not be affected by the proposed Project.
Table 2-1: Overview on the Existing National Regulatory Framework Related to
Environmental Protection and Management in the Road Sector
Reference                              Description
The Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan on  General framework for all national objectives in the area of
Environmental Protection (Febr. 9, 1999) environmental protection;
Article 50: State Ecological Expertise  Identify impact on the environment caused by any activities,
examine the results of such impacts and predict possible impacts in
accordance with the environmental requirements and qualitative
parameters of the environment.
Article 54: Objects of the State Ecological  Defines the types of projects requiring compulsory 'State
Expertise                              Ecological Expertise' (SEE), i.e. to undergo the systematic EIA
process. The construction of a new road is not explicitly stated.
Articles 35, 36, 37 and 38:Ecological
Requirements During Project Design and  It should be confirmed that the project will comply with:
limplementation                        * the maximum permitted concentrations of pollutants in the
environment;
* the maximum permitted discharges and emissions of pollutants
into the natural environment;
* the maximum permitted noise and vibration levels and other
harmful influences as well as health norms and standards of
hygiene.
Azeri Law on Automobile Roads (March   Spells out that any construction or reconstruction of roads requires
10, 2000)                             the official approval of the Ecological Committee, that state of the
Section 39: Protection of the Environment  art technology must be applied and that the chemicals that are used
must be environmentally sound. The unit of the Ministry
responsible for road environment must approve the proposed
environmental, health and safety norms of the construction.
EIA Handbook for Azerbaijan (UNDP),    Regulations on EA in Azerbaijan which define the type of projects
1996                                  requiring EA, the contents of an EA document, the roles and
responsibilities of the developer and the competent national
15



authorities, the procedures for public participation and the appeal
process.
SNIP 2.05.02-85                       Indicates the general need to minimize adverse environmental
Building Code & Regulations for       impacts in road design and provides, for instructions on the
Automobile Roads Ch. 3: Environmental  removal and re-use of top soil (no. 3.4); the need to provide buffer
Protection                            between the road and populated areas and to carry out noise
reduction measures to assure compliance with the relevant sanitary
norms (no. 3.9); on the dumping of excess materials (no. 3.12);
The Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan on  General framework provisions on the requirement to provide
Sanitary and Epidemiological Safety, 1993 healthy and safe conditions at workplaces and work camps (and
Section III: Responsibilities of State Bodies, many others) in compliance with the relevant sanitary hygiene,
Agencies, Companies... on the Provision of  construction regulations and norms (particularly items 14, 15 and
Sanitary and Epidemiological Safety   16).
Safety Regulations for Construction,  Comprehensive compilation of safety rules to technical safety
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Roads  requirements of road construction equipment, operation and
1978                                  maintenance of asphalt plants, work in borrow sites, loading and
unloading operations, work with toxic substances, etc.
SNIP 111-4-80                         Detailed regulations on construction worker's health and safety.
Norms of Construction Safety          Chapters 2 and 5 provide organizational procedures of construction
and work sites and material transport. Annex 9 contains standards
on maximum concentrations of toxic substances in the air of
working zones; Annex 11 specifically claims that workers need to
be informed and trained about sanitation and health care issues and
the specific hazards of their work.
Guidelines for Road Construction,     Addresses environmental issues in road design, construction and
Management and Design, February 7,    maintenance.
2000
Part I: Planning of  Automobile    Requires to minimize the impacts on the ecological, geological,
Roads                              hydro-geological and other ecological conditions, by implementing
Part II: Construction of          adequate protective measures.
Automobile Roads                   Requires the consideration of appropriate protection measures,
which shall contribute to the maintenance of stable ecological and
geological conditions as well as the natural balance.
Part III: Protection of the        Provides general overview on the requirements for environmental
Environment                        protection.
BCH 8-89                              Comprehensive provisions on environmental protection measures
Regulations on Environmental      in road construction such as use of soils, protection of surface and
Protection in Construction,        groundwater resources, protection of flora and fauna, use,
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of  preparation and storage of road construction machinery and
Roads                              materials, servicing of construction machinery; provisional
structures, provisional roads, fire protection, borrow pits and
material transport, avoidance of dust, protection of soils from
pollution, prevention of soil erosion etc. The appendices to this
document also state standard for: maximum permitted
concentrations of toxic substances; noise control measures; soil
pollution through losses of oil and fuel from construction
equipment; quality of surface water.
Sanitary Norms CH 2.2.4/2.1.8.562-96;  Ambient noise quality standards for residential, commercial and
1997                                  industrial areas, hospitals and schools (day/night standards);
Reg. 514-lQ-98                        This law includes requirements for industry and enterprises on the
Regulation on Industrial and Municipal  implementation of identified standards, norms and environmental
Waste                              protection for waste when designing, constructing or
reconstructing.
GOST 13508-74                         Describes the requirements and standards for white lining for the
various road categories.
16



Most important laws and regulations especially related to social aspects deal with ownership of
land, land acquisition and their compensations, resettlement, and cultural and historic sites:
Table 2-2: Overview of the Existing National Regulatory Framework Related to Social Aspects in
the Road Sector
Azerbaijan  Constitution  Established the right of individuals to possess property and that such
(12 November 1995)     'property rights' shall be protected by law; also, establishes that no-one
Article 29             will be dispossessed of land without a 'decision of court', and that
alienation of property for state needs shall only be allowed upon 'fair
reimbursement of its value'
1. All lands in use or in rent can be bought for state, municipality or for
Land Code of Azerbaijan  public needs
Republic (25 June 1999)  3. Lands in use could be taken back by Local Executive Power and
Article 70              Municipalities via the legal enforcement on the basis of the court decision
4. Privately owned land can be forced to be sold if there is planning to
locate something for state, municipality or public needs
8. People can be compensated with the same amount and same category
of land in other place if the expropriated land is used for state,
municipality of public needs
Article 86              1. Following categories of lands and their rights can be sold: private land,
municipality lands, and lands under privatized state property.
4. Foreigners and non-citizens are not allowed to buy land in the Republic
of Azerbaijan
Article 94             2. Two types of prices are in use for the valuation of lands: nominal and
market price
Article 95              1. The nominal price of lands is a value indicator reflecting quality and
productivity
2. The nominal price is used as a basic value in the following situations:
when lands are taken back or expropriating from owners and when the
land is sold by owner, and when the lands category is changing
3. Nominal price is indexed by inflation rate and calculated by the
District's Executive Power (Local Executive Body)
Article 96              2. When the privately owned land is sold the value is calculated by
agreement of correspondent sides on the market place (seller and buyer)
3. When municipality land is sold, market prices must be higher than
nominal price and determined by municipality administration
6. When the land is sold for public needs, the price of this land will be
determined by independent experts in this process. There must be an
agreement by both sides.
Article 103             Disputes about land are solved by the District's Executive Power,
Municipalities and Court.
Law on Land Market      Establishes requirements for land transactions such as purchasing and
(7 May 1999)            selling of land, mortgages, transferring of rights to other users and lessees,
and transfer of land through inheritance; makes recommendations on the
nature of land market agreements and contracts; requires registration of
all land rights and sets out documentation requirements; and outlines
penalties for failure to comply with regulations.
Resolution No.42 of "On  Expands on provisions of the Land Code with respect to the following
some   Normative  and   areas: a) procedures for determining payments for agricultural and
Legal Acts Relating to  forestry production losses and damage resulting from restriction of use, or
the Land Code of the    change in land use; b) procedures for resumption of private land for state
Azerbaijan Republic"    or public needs; c) procedures for granting leases for grazing and hayfield
(15 March 2000)         use; and, d) procedures for allotting land for industrial, transportation,
communication and other purposes.
17



Cabinet  of   Ministers  Sets out standard or nonnative values of land for each district in
DecreeNo.158       on   Azerbaijan. For Ganja-Gazakh region, which includes the Tovuz district,
normative Costs of Land  the normative price for I ha of pasture land is specified as 1,503.400 Az.
(23 July 1998)          Man (equivalent of USD 300).
Law on Land Leases      Sets general rules governing leasing of land, procedures for changing
(11 December 1998)      lease conditions and establishes the requirement for registration of leases.
Civil Code              Defines types of legal interests in property (full ownership, lease, third
(I September 2000)      party); requires proprietary rights and other rights for immovable
property, as well as restrictions, formation, assignment or transfer of
rights to be registered with the State. Use rights, servitude rights and
mortgages must also be registered. Requires that land acquired for state or
public needs shall be purchased by 'an authorized body of the Azerbaijan
Republic' or municipality, by paying the market price in advance.
Provides for people to have the right to register their ownership due to
long, actual possession.
Civil Procedures Code   Sets out procedures and applicable timeframes for actions and appeals
(1 September 2000)      through the courts. Court decisions on compulsory acquisition and the
Article 360             basis of any land valuation must be appealed with the higher court within
one month of such decision
The Memorandum of Understanding on Land Acquisition between the
Land Acquisition       International Development Association (IDA) and the Govemment of
Azerbaijan, which is used in the Baku-Gazakh-Georgia Borders road
construction, states which information is collected for compensation
applications. This includes (a) the type of land: if sowing land, pasture,
garden, dry-farming or irrigated land, (b) buildings, (c) plants already
sown or to be sown during the next season and (d) perennial herbs, trees
and their age and quantity. This information is collected by the
representatives of the District's Executive Power and Azerbaijan State
Land and Cartography Committee for compensation which is finally
approved and accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers.
Although the state is responsible to compensate, there is no permanent and
Compensation Funds     clear compensation system and the accepted compensations are paid from
different state funds as the case be. For the Tovuz Bypass Project it is
recommended that compensations are paid from the Government funds of
the IDA loan project and monitored by the RTSD or a supervision
consultant engaged in the project.
Compensations must be paid immediately after the final road design has
been finished and those eligible to compensation are known.
Compensations must be completed before any of the construction work
starts.
Protection of Monuments states that no historical and/or cultural
Law of the Protection of  monuments which are declared as such by the Azerbaijan Science
Historical and Cultural  Academy, are to be demolished. No such monuments were found in the
Monuments              corridors under study.
Article 10:             _-
According to Azerbaijani legislation there are 3 possible scenarios of land acquisition:
1) Land owner is provided with the equal size and quality of land,
2) Land owner is compensated by proponents of the land acquisition on the basis of current
markets prices
3) Dispute is the subject of court consideration
18



The real situation with land reserves excludes scenario (1). Local authorities either have no land
reserves, or the quality of these lands is much lower than the land owned by people. Thus, the
main scenario for smooth lands acquisition is a fair valuation.
According to the Land Code of the Azerbaijan Republic, land taken for public use must be
compensated. There are two types of prices for valuation of lands: nominal and market prices.
According to the Land Code, the nominal price is supposed to be used as the benchmark for
compensation, and market price is to be used for valuation of land when people who lose the
land do not accept the nominal price. Since the nominal price is based on cadastre-based prices
of 1998 and thus outdated, compensation for the loss of land is usually determined not by the
nominal price but by the current market price.
However, a clear working mechanism with detailed administrative procedures and
responsibilities of government agencies is not yet established in Azerbaijan. That is why the
bargaining process is based on individual negotiations between members of specially created
Commission and the affected people. Municipality lands are not to be sold for less than its
nominal price.
2.4   Administrative Framework
The Government of Azerbaijan is represented in the regions by the local offices of line
ministries which in some cases may cover more than one district. In this project, the Ministry of
Transport represented by RTSD is the main stakeholder due to their responsibilities in road
construction.
In managing and monitoring environmental and social implications of the proposed Project the
following national and district agencies will be involved:
*  RTSD is responsible for planning, constructing, operating and maintaining national roads in
Azerbaijan. The WB "Azerbaijan Highways" Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be in
charge of project management to ensure that appropriate budget is provided for the
implementation of mitigation measures and monitoring programme and that the contract
provisions are properly implemented. The Environment and Safety Sector (ESS) of the
RTSD was established in September 2004 under the Maintenance Unit with five staff and is
the officially competent body for environmental, health and safety monitoring of road
projects. In addition, ESS is also responsible for greening and landscaping of national roads.
*  Local administration power belongs to the District Executive Power with the Head of the
Office appointed by the President. The Tovuz district office is located in Tovuz town.
Municipalities of Tovuz region and the villages work together with the district Executive
Power administration, e.g. they keep records of population, land and land ownership. The
District Executive Power calculates the nominal price for land (showing land quality) and
together with the Azerbaijan State Land and Cartography Committee handles land
acquisitions and compensation matters.
*  Representatives of municipalities are elected in municipal elections. The municipalities'
main revenue comes from the land taxes and these funds are used for social development
needs in the villages and may include, for example, minor improvement of roads or side
19



walks or planting trees along the streets inside the villages. Municipalities also receive
revenue from sand extraction from private borrow pits.
*  The district office of RTSD (in Tovuz) and the Regional Monitoring Department of the
MENR (in Gazakh) are responsible to undertake routine and random monitoring
(compliance with good engineering and standard working practices, environmental, health
and safety regulations and guidelines, water, air, soil quality etc.). It may be necessary to
ensure that RTSD will coordinate with MENR in special occasions when their institutional
capabilities are becoming limited to deal with complicated problems.
*  The Sanitary and Epidemiology Department of the Ministry of Health (MOH) will be
responsible to undertake routine monitoring of the living conditions and sanitary provisions
at the contractor's work camp and worksites. MOH's District Disinfection Centre (in Tovuz)
will have to be involved to officially approve the contractor's work camp installations and
facilities and their compliance with the relevant sanitary and health norms and guidelines.
*  During the operational phase of the Project RTSD will undertake routine monitoring on road
safety, the storm water drainage system, the condition of plantations, etc.
3.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1   Road Alternatives under Study
The present EA considers 2 alternative alignments for a northern bypass of Tovuz which are
broadly shown in Fig. 3-1.
*  .,                                         .~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ga L.   7
r --~k              .                  E                       ,            y . r--  r. 
4--i_4-                                                        '    DIAP
r~~~~~~~~~j~                                 --                  -    - %\
*Note: alternative 3 has been excluded from further analysis at the early  .
stages of the present EA because the relevant national design standards for
a Category 1 road could not have been complied with     -    '    -
Alternative I  J  -        Altemative IF -  -'    Altemative III
Fig 3-1: Road Alternatives under Study
20



Both study alternatives begin a few hundred meters to the west of the Tovuz Chay river bridge
of the MI (road section presently under re-construction under the IDA Loan Project 3147-AZ)
and have a common corridor on the first 6.7 km of their alignment. In this first section, an
irrigation channel (at about 1.75 km) and the Tovuz Chay river (at around 3.9 km) shall be
crossed via bridges.
Further details on the topographical conditions and the land use in the study corridors are given
in chapter 4.1.3.
A 3rd Alternative is the short detour designed in the year 1989 and some earthworks on the
embankment were made the same year, but due to organizational problems the construction was
stopped. The poor geometry of this alternative at the beginning, near Tovuz chay river would be
problematic due to small space available. Difficult topography of this alternative also would be
problematic due to the high grade and embankment needed. Consequently the traffic safety of
this alternative will suffer. Also, 3 rd Alternative would be too close to existing buildings and
would have required a lot of resettlement. Taking into consideration all above mentioned, this
alternative was eliminated from further consideration in the early stages
The existing road through Tovuz cannot be widened or upgraded to the planned future standard
design for the M 1 and as a result the 'without-project scenario' cannot be recommended for
consideration, either.
Alternative 1 has a total length of 14.1 km and does not require any resettlement or destruction
of infrastructure. It rejoins the M 1 in the northwest of Jalilli village at the boundary of the
Agstafa District.
Alternative 2 is about 10.4 km long and also does not require any resettlement. After splitting
from the common corridor, alternative 2 turns to a western direction, then runs to the south-west
between Jallilli and Duz-Jirdahan village and connects to the MI in the south-east of Jalilli.
3.2   Design Parameters and Structures
According to the proposed Project concept the total width of the road to be constructed in the
present phase is 15 m7 (2 x 3.75 m lanes and 2 x 3.75 m shoulders) plus side slopes and ditches
which, in flat sections, will bring the directly affected land to a corridor of about 30 m width. In
average, the land to be presently acquired for the implementation of the Project will be the
ROW, i.e. a corridor of 60 m width. h1 some sections, i.e. in the area to the east and west of the
Tovuz Chay river and a further section in the east of Duz Jirdahan village, a significantly wider
area will be affected because existing local roads need to be crossed (see below) or the grade
requires wider embankments. In the longer term the design of the road shall be capable of
accommodating 4 lanes with 2 carriageways on the entire route between Baku and Tbilisi. In the
case of the Tovuz bypass, such widening would take place to the right of the presently proposed
alignment.
Regarding the structures there will be 2 bridges (irrigation channel and Tovuz Chay) and 3
further bridges for road crossings (roads to Alimammedli village and Mulkulu village). At
places where some smaller local roads cut, access to main roads will be provided by alternative
arrangements. At the beginning and the end of the bypass, roundabouts will be built as an
7Parameters are consistent with the Ganja-Gazakh road, rehabilitation of which is currently underway.
21



interim solution for connecting it to the Ml. In the longer term (i.e. when 2 additional lanes will
be built) these roundabouts will be replaced by interchange flyovers.
For the new bridge over the Tovuz Chay two design alternatives are being considered (see fig.
3-2). The final selection of the preferred solution will have a significant impact on the
dimension of associated earthworks. More details on the design parameters for the various
structures are provided in the engineering report.
}-                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~231             -
b)                                 263
Fig.3- 2: Design Alternatives for the Tovuz Chay Bridge: a) 'low bridge' b) 'high bridge'
In accordance with the relevant regulationg the main design parameters for a Category I road in
Azerbaijan are as follows:
calculated (design) speed  120 km
radius min              800 m (horizontal curve)
visibility              250 mn.
The grade in on the approach to the Tovuz Chay bridge will be of 4 % for both alternatives. The
road furniture and marking is planned to be designed according to the norms and rules in force
in Azerbaijan.
3.3      Proposed Borrow Pits
According to the geotechnical investigations, the excess material from the cuts on the approach
to Tovuz Chay will be suitable for the construction of the road embankments. It is thus assumed
that there will only be little need for additional materials from these borrow pits - especially if
the proposed mitigation measures are considered during the subsequent detailed design. Table
3-1 provides the estimated quantities of cut and fill for the alignment and design alternatives
under study.
g SNIP 2.05.02-85
22



Table 3-1: Comparative Assessment of Cut and Fill in Design Alternatives
unit  Design alternative with  Design alternative with
'low bridge'         'high bridge'
Cut                    m3             2,751,000 m3           815,000 m3
Fill                   m3               216,000 m3           450,000 m3
Bridge cuts excess     m3             2,535,000 m3           365,000 m3
material (max.)
In case of quality needs or transportation problems there would be a need for borrow pits.
Construction material for sub grade and embankments may be obtained from two borrows pits
which are already or will be used under the presently ongoing rehabilitation of the Shamkir to
Gazakh section of the M 1. Both potential sites are located to the north of the Ml in the east of
Tovuz town.
3.4   Justification of the Project
In the context of the national transport policy goal to improve the road conditions and safety and
reduce transport time and costs on the east-west corridor between Baku and the border to
Georgia the existing 5 km road through Tovuz town and the steep grade of the road before and
after the bridge are assessed as a potential future bottleneck and safety risk. The proposal for a
new bypass for Tovuz was made to avoid such situation and because the infrastructural
conditions inside the town do not allow upgrading the road to the planned Category 1 standard.
In order to obtain up-to-date figures on the actual traffic situation a 24 hrs traffic count was
carried out in the frame of the present assignment on 3 subsequent days (2 weekdays, 1
weekend day) in early February 2005. The figures that were obtained in the frame of these
recent traffic counts confirmed the previously established forecasts for 20059 and the transit
character of the road section under studyl. For the future traffic development a 6% annual
growth rate is assumed for the TRACECA. According to the recent figures the basis for the
calculation of future traffic growth is 322 trucks and around 1.500 cars per 24 hours.
3.5   Proposed Schedule for Implementation
The Project is scheduled to commence by the end of 2005 and forecasted to take a maximum of
2 years for implementation.
3.6   Life Span of the Proposed Project
The proposed bypass for Tovuz is designed for a life span of 30 years provided that routine and
periodic maintenance is carried out.
3.7   Extent and Quality of Data
The baseline information available on the environmental conditions and relevant parameters in
the study area has been scarce, out of date and of rather general nature.
Another difficulty has been the fact that the existing topographical maps of the study area
(1:25,000) date back to the 1970s. These maps hardly show any accurate limits of human
9 Rehabilitation and Upgrading of the Shemnkir Gazakh Road Section. Engineering Report. Kocks Consult
GmbH 2002
0 For more details on the results of the traffic count see engineering report.
23



settlements or land-uses and lack much of the actually existing infrastructure which has made
field orientation, estimations and descriptions difficult.
In order to confirm and update obtained information, site surveys and research were carried out
during the EA preparation.
4.    ENVIRONMENTAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PROJECT AREA
4.1      Physical Environment
4.1.1    Climate
The planning area is characterized by an arid subtropical climate with a considerable degree of
insulation, high evaporation rates and air dryness. The mean annual precipitation in the region
lies at around 400 mm with April and May as the wettest and July - August as the driest months.
The mean annual temperature for the Tovuz area is + 4 to +10 'C. in January, and +18 to +25C
in July.
According to the information obtained from the National Hydrometeorology Department,
during the year 2004 winds in the study area mainly blew from eastem (20%) directions.
,North
West
15 %
7 %
Fig. 4-1: Rose of winds in Tovuz city. Year 2004
24



4.1.2 Soil Characteristics
The area around Tovuz town is characterised by two types of soil: the 'chestnut soil' which is
common in the flat land in this region and the 'meadow soil' which is typical for a narrow area
along the banks of the Tovuz Chay1l.
'Chestnut soils' are typical plain dry steppe soils which have their main distribution at altitudes
between 300 and 500 m; they are characterized by an average moisture content of 0.20-0.25, a
humus coefficient of 3.0 and a pH of 7.5-8.2. The granulometric composition varies between
0.80 and 1.0; erodibility fluctuates within 0.2-1.00 km/km2 (i.e. the length of ravine extension
on 1 kM2) and salinity is between 0.56-1.0 g/m3. Chestnut soils have a loamy structure, a
medium degree of salinity and a low erodibility coefficient. This type of soil is mainly suitable
for winter pastures, arable land (grains) and long-living plants (as vine).
_ A                         Fig. 4-2: Soils of the Study
Area
~~ Q~~~s..  ~~~~        ~    -:p6: 'Meadow' soils
^         10: 'Chestnut' soils
Meadow soils are typical lowland semi-dry arid steppe soils. They are characterised by an
average moisture content of 0.10-0.15, a humus coefficient of 1.7, and a pH of 7.4-8.6. The
granulometric composition varies between 0.36 and 1.0, salinity between 0.55-1.0 g/m3.
Meadow soils have a light loamy structure, a medium degree of salinity, low erodibility
coefficient and are mainly suitable for winter pastures and arable land (cotton).
4.1.3 Topography and Land Use
Tovuz town is located to the north of the foothills of the Lesser Caucasus and on edges of the
Kura river lowlands at an altitude of around 440 m. Regarding topography, the planning area in
the northern surroundings of Tovuz town can generally be described as uniformly flat with
altitudes ranging between 420m and about 390m. The only exception to this is the valley of the
Tovuz Chay, which lies in the east of the town and cuts the land in a south west to north east
direction. In the area of the study corridor the total width of this valley is estimated of around
700 m with the riverbed itself lying at some 70 m below the surrounding terrain.
The land in the east of the river Tovuz is flat and dominated by agriculture (see picture 3, in
Appendix C). The main products are potatoes, cereals and wine. An irrigation channel running
in the east-western direction and its adjoining dams are the only remarkable elements in this
generally monotonous landscape (see picture 4). Proceeding to the west, the land remains flat
(see picture 5) until approaching the valley of the Tovuz Chay, at the edges of which some
smaller side valleys occur. The land then slopes down to the upper terrace of the Tovuz Chay by
some 10 m (380 m asl). On this terrace, which has a width of about 100 m, the cultivation of
AGAMALIYEVA, Konovalova: Ecological Features of Azerbaijan Soils. Baku 2004
25



cereals is the dominating type of land use (see picture 6). The slopes which then lead down to
the lower river terrace are relatively steep. This area lies at an average altitude of around 340 m
and is about 200 m wide. Inside the study corridor, all this area, including the slopes and the
terraces on the left side of the river, is dominated by pasture.
Proceeding to the west and beyond the valley of the Tovuz Chay the land remains generally flat
again and is dominated by agriculture (see picture 10). In the north-east of Duz-Jirdahan a steep
slope of about 10 m height occurs which was obviously formed by some mining activities in its
lower parts. At the immediate edges of this slope runs a gas pipeline which becomes
increasingly exposed due to the unstable terrain.
In the corridor 1, east of Jalilli, the proposed alignment cuts through an orchard (see picture 11)
of some 700 m width, which is bordered by a planted stretch of conifers to either sides. In the
north of Jalilli the road runs in the immediate vicinity of some detached houses (to the left, see
picture 12) and a military ground (to the right). Further to the north-west it passes immediately
to the right of a graveyard. Proceeding further into the same direction, the proposed road cuts
through a strip of deciduous forest in the north-west of Jalilli, which was planted in the 1940's
as a protection against wind erosion.
Corridor 2 splits off from the common alignment with corridor I at about 6+200 km. It then
runs into a western direction through flat agricultural land where no remarkable elements or
structures are encountered. At about 9.2km the road runs in the immediate vicinity of a detached
house (to the right) and a strip of conifers (to the left). Where alternative 2 rejoins the Ml it will
entail the loss of about 30 to 40 planted trees (mainly poplar alongside a rural road and pine and
few cypresses on the MI, see pictures 13 and 14).
4.1.4 Hydrology and Water Resources
The Project Region belongs to the catchment area of the Kura River which is located at some 13
km as the crow flies to the north of the Project area. The Kura is the major river system
accounting for approximately 90% of surface water resources in Azerbaijan. On its way to the
Caspian Sea the River Kura feeds two major reservoirs (the Shamkur and the Mingechevir
Reservoir) which mainly serve for power generation and irrigation purposes.
The Kura river system is reported to be organically and bacteriologically polluted by the
discharge of poorly treated or untreated waste water from 11 million people living in the
catchment area (including neighbouring countries). Due to the collapse of many industries in the
early 90s, pollution has considerably decreased. A number of polluting activities, however, still
exist, notably mining, metallurgical, and chemical industries. The major pollutants are heavy
metals, (copper, zinc, cadmium) from mining and the leather industry, and ammonia and nitrates
from the fertilizer industry. Water from the Kura does not meet Azerbaijan's drinking water
standards - not even after conventional treatment. This is a critical problem, because the Kura is
the main source of drinking water in the country'2
The Tovuz Chay which originates in the Lesser Caucasus and passes Tovuz town in the east is a
tributary to the Kura River and flows in a north-eastern direction. The Tovuz Chay is a
perennial river with however varying discharges and water levels depending on regulation in its
upper reaches, seasonal rainfall and snow melting. It is mainly fed by rainwater (65%) and
12 National Environmental Action Plan. State Coimmittee of Ecology and Control of Natural Resource
Utilization. Baku, 1998
26



13
groundwater (27%) while snow melting is reported to account for some 8% of its discharge
More concrete figures on the seasonal discharges of the Tovuz Chay are, however, not
available. According to information obtained from the Municipality the raw sewage of Tovuz
town is pumped to an area downstream of the town in the north of the village Khatinli, where it
is released to the open land. Industrial polluters do not exist in the area upstream of Tovuz town.
About 70 % of the population of Tovuz and some 40% of the population in the District villages
are supplied with drinking water from the Tovuz valley. The local supply utility (Azersu Joint
Stock Company) taps riverbank filtrate at the depth of around 140 m in the south, which is
upstream the town. This water is pumped to 2 reservoirs (2 x 2,000 m3) from where it is
distributed to the local supply network. Those villages that are not connected to the piped
distribution system mainly receive their drinking water from tankers, that supply the villagers on
a regular basis. The quality of this drinking water is regularly monitored by both the District
office of the Ministry of Health (monthly) and its headquarters in Baku (quarterly) and reported
to comply with the relevant national standards. The upper aquifer around Tovuz is characterized
by high salt contents and is tapped by only a few private shallow wells. Regarding quantitative
aspects in the local water supply Azersu reports that shortages regularly occur in summer as a
result of increasing consumption.
Irrigation is reported to be independent of the local water resources and uses water that is
pumped to the area from the Kura or the Agstafa District.
4.2 Biological Environment
According to the Biodiversity Report for Azerbaijan the planning area may be attributed to the
Kura-Araks ecoregion14 which has an arid subtropical climate and includes semi-desert and
lowland steppe habitats.
In this broader regional context the study area in the north and east of Tovuz town is
characterized by steppe vegetation which typically occurs in the lowlands around 300 to 500 m.
Today, large areas of this ecoregion are under agricultural use, mainly vines, grains and
vegetables. Considerable areas are used as winter grazing pastures for domestic livestock. In
this area Artemisia ssp. and Bothriochloa spp. are the dominating vegetation which, however, is
under the threat of degradation through considerable pressure from grazing animals.
In this context the fauna that may now be encountered in the planning area is constituted of
mainly common species that have a relatively broad tolerance for their habitat conditions and
permanent interference through agriculture or lifestock. Examples of such species with a wide
distribution in the cultivated areas of this ecozone are mammals like the fox (Vulpes vulpes) and
the hare (Lepus europaeus); small common rodents like the Red-tailed Sanderling (Meriones
lybicus) or the Social Vole (Microtus socialis) were observed during the field visit. Examples of
bird species that are common to the study area are the Bee-Eater (Merops apiaster) and Kestrel
(Falco tinniculatus) which have their feeding habitats in such land that is dominated by
agriculture and pasture. The crested lark (Galerida cristata) and Alauda arvensis are further
typical species of the land in the north of Tovuz.
'3 RUSTAMOV, S., JAFAROV, B. GAJIBEKO, N. (1959): The Water Balance of the Rivers of The Lesser
Caucasus Basin."ELM", Baku 1959
14 Source: USAID: Biodiversity Report for Azerbaijan, 2000. Internet Document
27



Regarding the aquatic fauna there is no relevant up-to-date information available for the area
under study. Older literature states fishes like Chondrostoma cyri, Varicorhinus capoeta
capoeta, Barbus lacerta, Chalcalburmus chalcoides, Cyprinus carpio Lucioperca lucioperca
and others as common species for the tributaries of the middle stream water of the Kura.
Observation from the recent field visit are that the ecology of the Tovuz Chay is likely to be
impaired not only by the regulation in its upper reaches, but also due to pollution from many
sources like the dumping of large amounts of waste in the riverbed (see picture 8 in the
Appendix)
The forest strip in the north of Jalilli and the fruit orchard are anthropogenic structures,
however, they may have local importance as a refugium and breeding-site for a variety of
dendrohiles, especially in the context of an intensively cultivated area. For this reason and being
the only such structure in the landscape of the wider study area, the forest strip has a higher
local ecological value than the surrounding open agricultural land. More specific information on
this issue is not available.
The Red Data Book of Azerbaijan (1989) states a number of rare or endangered species for the
wider study area. Among these are: the insect Manduca atropos, the Caspian Lamrey
Caspiomyzon wagneri, the turtle Testuda graeca pallas, the raptors Imperial Eagle (Aquila
heliaca), the Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos), the Short-toed Snake Eagle (Coircaetus
gallicus), the Sacer Falcon (Falco cherrug), the gallifonnes Chucar (Alectoris chucar), the
Black Francolin (Francolinus francolinus), the Little Bustard (Tetrax tetrax), the Great Bustard
(Otis tarda) and the Persian Gazelle (Gazella subgutturosa G.).
A field investigation was conducted by a flora and fauna specialist in February 2005 to collect
relevant baseline data and to identify any impacts and specific management measures that
would be required for the proposed construction of the by-pass. The results of this investigation
confirmed that, due to human activities in the area, there have been many changes in land-use,
the fragmentation of habitats and environmental pollution along the proposed route alignments
and the area around the city of Tovuz. None of the species identified in the Red Book are
therefore considered to be typical inhabitants of the road alignment area at this point.
4.3 Socioeconomic Characteristics
4.3.1 Settlement Pattern and Local Roads
Population in the area around Tovuz is concentrated to close settlements, which are separated
from each other by agricultural and/or pasture lands. Very few farm houses exist outside these
settlements. Tovuz town and four settlements are located on or close to present Baku-Tbilisi
road, the village Bozalganli siding with the town, and the other settlements which also have
their fields in the project area are located around the town. The settlements with acquisition for
alternatives 1 and 2 are: Duz-Jirdahan, Bozalganli, Abulbayli, Garakhanli, Khatinli, Dondar
Qushchu, and Ashagi Gushchu. The settlements which will be located near to the new roads but
having no fields in the proposed project area are: Ashagi Mulkulu and Alimardanli, allocated
north of the alternatives 1 and 2 and Jallilli.
28



AshagiMs akulu
aiM Khatinli
~~_ \ t R~~~~~~lirnardanii
Jl r_~~
Duz-Jirdaha   ~            8 
Pondar Gushchu
Fig. 4-3: Area map
The local roads are mainly connecting these settlements with Tovuz town and car traffic is quite
heavy on these local roads. On the District level, every fifth family has a car and this share can
be assumed to be higher in this urban and semi-urban area. The roads between the settlements
are less developed.
The villages have small shops for every day goods and services and all settlements have schools
and some bigger ones also medical clinics. The bigger variety of goods and private and public
services (e.g. the regional hospital, special schools) are available in Tovuz town. This and
scattered nature of agricultural fields and activities the traffic is continuous on the local roads.
Both road alternatives under study would cross the local roads leading to Ashagi Mulkulu,
Khatinli and Alimardanli villages; alternative 1 would cross Ashagi Mulkulu further north while
alternative 2 would reach it where it joins the present main road in the east.
4.3.2 Economic Activity on the Project Area
Tovuz District is a food growing and sheep and cattle breeding area and agriculture is the main
source of income in the villages. Within the last few years, agricultural area under crop has
grown fast and production and productivity has considerably increased. Agricultural production
consists of grains, potatoes, and variety of vegetables, meat and milk.
Presently, new vineyards are increasingly established on the now privatized land. Earlier, the
agricultural area around Tovuz town was extensively used for vineyards which were demolished
during the late Soviet Union years according to the contemporary anti-alcoholic policy. The
land was public at the time and instead of grapes other agricultural products were grown. Some
of the newly established vineyards are located near the proposed roads 1 and 2. One is by the
old road on the place where the new road is designed to start, one just before Tovuz Chay River
and one by the Khatinli road very near the proposed road line and north of it.
29



There is an old irrigation canal which is used during summer by pumped river water and
alternatives 1 and 2 necessitate a construction of a bridge over it. There is also the old water
reservoir out of original use (now used for agriculture) between Jalilli and the road alternative 1.
The productivity levels of the fields under study area vary, part of the land is classified as good
agricultural lands while some suit only for sheep grazing. When the crop has been harvested the
sheep and cattle are fed also on the fields. The market value of land depends on its productivity
and use of land.
Industry. There is no operating industry in the region. There is a juice factory near the proposed
bridge over Tovuz Chay River on its western bank but it is not presently operating. Earlier the
town also had a wine factory which used local grapes but this too has been out of operation for
years.
Business and trade. Business and trade is mainly local and retail trade has doubled within few
years. Agricultural products are traded to other regions. Although this trade depends also on
long distance road transportation, this positive trend can be expected to continue even if the new
highway will bypass the city itself.
4.3.3 Population in the Project Area
The population of Tovuz District is about 150 000 people. In the town itself there are about 15
000 inhabitants. The information about the population of settlements affected by land
acquisition and share of male population is shown in the table 4-1 below:
Settlement        Population       Males
Duz-Jirdahan           4,539 persons   46.1 %
Bozalganli           3,881 persons     47.1 %
Abulbayli            5,653 persons      47.1%
Garakhanli           3,172 persons      46.7%
Khatinli             2,957 persons      45.9%
Dondar Gushchu       3,526 persons      47.8%/o
Ashagi Gushchu       8724 persons       48.7%
Table 4-1: Population of settlements affected by land acquisition
There are more women than men in the villages, this ratio being bigger than national average
(49% males). The main reason can be assumed to be male work migration to other areas and
countries. The average household size is five persons.
4.3.4 Occupation and income sources of people
Agriculture occupies a considerable number of people in this region. Villages in the project area
used to be collective food production units, and after the privatization of land, despite other
additional income sources, individual households continue to remain as such. Whatever the
other income sources are, acquisition of land will affect the household economy in many cases.
In the case of temporary loss of land and/or crops, money compensation is keeping the
household economy in balance.
30



4.3.5 Unemployment
Officially, unemployment in the country is low (less than one per cent). However, real under-
and unemployment is much bigger.
4.3.6 Migration
Migration inside the country mainly happens from rural to urban areas. Net migration in the
country (migration to and from other countries) has been negative over ten years. Urban
emigration has slowed down (probably because of rural-urban migration) while rural emigration
especially to Russia has increased. Also from the project area many people, mainly men are said
to move to work especially to Russia.
4.3.7 Refugees, internally displaced and indigenous people
In Tovuz region there are both refugees (from Armenia and Uzbekistan) and internally
displaced people (from Nagomo-Karabakh). There are now some new resettlements and
agricultural lands allocated by state/ municipalities also to these people but none of these are in
the project area.
There are 15 ethnicities in the country. The Azeris form 90 per cent of the total population. The
second and the third biggest ethnic groups are the Lezgins and the Russians who share around 2
per cent each, others have smaller shares. None of these other groups are so called indigenous
people or originate from the project area.
4.4 Cultural Heritage
The term cultural heritage or cultural property refers to sites, structures, and remains of
archaeological, historical, religious, cultural, or aesthetic value. In Tovuz Region there are a
number and variety of mausoleums, fortresses and towers and six ancient cemeteries in
Gazculu, Vakhidli, Agdam, Alibeili, Yanakhli and Azadli settlements, all of which are several
kilometers south of the present road. The monument called "the abode of Keroglu" is allocated
east of Tovuz town and is not near the proposed roads. Although Tovuz town is part of the
ancient Silk Road, none of the above mentioned properties exist in the area under study and
none adverse impacts are expected.
According to information obtained during the field visit and the consultation of relevant maps
official cultural heritage sites do not exist in the potential area of influence of the roads under
study.
4.5 Protected Areas
Protected areas or nature reserves or significant temporary habitats of migratory species do not
exist neither in the corridors under study nor in their vicinity.
5 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
5.1 Overall Environmental Sensitivity of the Study Corridors
The potential direct physical impact that any of the 2 alternatives may entail is expected to
mainly take place inside the boundaries of the future ROW (2 x 30 m from the centreline). This
area shall be acquired for the implementation of the Project, not only to allow for the
construction of the 2 lane bypass but also to allow for the future upgrading of the road to a 4
lane standard. In the area of the future bridge over the Tovuz Chay the direct physical impact
31



will affect a wider corridor due to cuts on the river bank. Additional direct and indirect physical
impacts outside of this ROW will result from the siting and operation of the contractor's
yard/worker's camp, material extraction and transport from the borrow pits.
Regarding the human environment the socio-economic implications of road construction in the
alternative study corridors may be severe due to acquiring and overbuilding large areas of
private agricultural land that presently generate reliable income for many families of Tovuz and
the surrounding villages. These socio-economic issues will be discussed further. With respect to
other aspects of the human environment, both study corridors are generally assessed as
moderately sensitive to the siting and operation of a new road.
The criteria that are considered in this context are:
* Existence of only few detached residential houses in the vicinity of the study corridors;
* non- existence of specifically noise sensitive human infrastructure in the potential area
influence of the study alternatives (schools, hospitals etc.);
*  non- existence of natural features or structures with relevance for human water supply;
* non- existence of objects of cultural, recreational or historical interest;
* existence of local access roads for material transport outside built-up areas;
* non-existence of need for temporary roads for local and transit traffic during
construction due to the existing road through Tovuz.
Likewise, the impact of bypass construction on the the natural environment in the north of
Tovuz town can be assessed as less critical. This statement is based on the following criteria:
*  Predominance of more or less intensively used agricultural land with little to no ecological
significance;
*  non-existence of protected areas or specifically sensitive or rare natural habitats of flora or
fauna - neither in the immediate nor in the wider area of influence of each of the alternative
corridors;
*  very limited need for the removal of (planted) vegetation (more details on this issue are
given under chapter 6.1);
Regarding the identification of a preferred, optimal alignment the study area shows rather few
criteria of environmental relevance to exclude one of the alternatives from serious
consideration. The comparative assessment of alternatives is provided in chapter 6.1.
During the present preliminary design phase, the responsibility for the mitigation of potential
adverse environmental impacts lies with the design consultants/engineers. The relevant design
features were discussed among the Project team throughout the planning process and have
eventually contributed to the consideration of the following issues:
o  The 'high bridge solution' significantly minimizes the need to dump excess
material in the open landscape and is considered as highly desirable design
option from the environmental point of view
o Animal crossings have been planned to either side of the Tovuz Chay. If
required, more such crossings may be provided for during the detailed design.
o Regarding road safety the Project will provide underpasses for 3 of existing local
roads. This will allow for the free movement of vehicles and pedestrians, ensure
that safe access to the main villages can be maintained and facilitate the safe
movement of sheep and other domestic animals.
32



o To minimize potential nuisance through traffic noise, both alignments have been
carefully refined where some detached houses lie in the vicinity of the roads.
During the phase of detailed design an appropriate consideration shall be given to the concept of
environmentally sound land mass management. To this regard:
*  priority should be given to use the excess material for smoothening of the
embankment slopes. Dumping of excess materials shall generally be made the
second choice alternative;
*  slope retaining structures may be required on the deep cuts in the area of the
new bridge over the Tovuz Chay (between km 2+900 and 3+200 before the
bridge and km 4+200 to 4+800 after the bridge). The plantation of shrubs (local
species with appropriate adaptation to local climatic conditions) should also be
considered in these sections during the detailed design.
During construction the implementation of the majority of environmental mitigation measures
will be the responsibility of the contractor. The following provides an overview on construction
or operation-related impacts on the physical and human environment and describes feasible and
cost effective measures to reduce these potential impacts to acceptable levels. A complete
Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan, which also contains indications on the
institutional responsibilities for their implementation, is provided in Appendix A.
The successful implementation of the EMP will highly depend on:
*  the provision of temporary hands-on support and comprehensive capacity building for
the competent sector of the RTSD;
*  the selection of a contractor with specific professional qualification and experience to
provide support to RTSD;
*  cooperation between the local authorities and the contractor regarding the use of public
space and utilities, environmental and traffic management,
* project management's strict enforcement of the correct construction practices and
standards and the EMP/ LAP; and
*  the correct pricing and incorporation of mitigation measures into the bid documents and
contract specifications (see also under 8.6).
5.2 Impacts on the Physical/Natural Environment and their Mitigation
5.2.1 Impacts during Construction
Establishment and Operation of the Contractor's Work Camp
The contractor's work camp includes living and eating areas for the non-local workforce and
equipment storage and servicing sites as well as material stockpiles. If improperly designed and
operated, work camps can create pollution and environmental hazards through sewage, garbage
and vermin; be a source for spills from the operation and servicing of construction equipment;
induce pressure on scarce local limited resources (e.g. drinking water).
Regarding the site selection itself it is proposed to consider the availability of the current work
camp of BTC, which is located to the southeast of Tovuz, only a few hundred metres away from
the existing Ml and currently is in the process of dismantling. With respect to the operation of
the work camp the contractor shall submit a plan and description of his work camp and detail
33



proposed measures to avoid or reduce adverse environmental impacts resulting from its
installation and operation fully compliant with the provisions of the construction norms BCH 8-
89. As a minimum, the following measures will be taken:
o        Provision of appropriate latrines and sewage collection systems and establishment
of a simple sewage management plan which shall be submitted to the PIU for
approval;
o        Establishment of a waste management plan covering the following: regular waste
collection and disposal (may be temporarily integrated into the existing waste
collection systems and disposal facilities of Tovuz); separate collection of toxic
and harmful waste as well as used tires to be handled according to the relevant
provisions of BCH 8-89 regulatory norms and disposed of at designated sites
according to MENR requirements;
o        Provision of confined sites for vehicles maintenance and fuelling designed to
contain spilled lubricants and fuels, compliant with the provisions of BCH 8-89.
To this regard the contractor shall submit a description of fuel storage and its
location, and of the filling station and car washing site to the local executive and
sanitary authorities, including a statement on their location, further than 500 m
from the water sources and irrigation systems;
o        provision of secure, impermeable and bounded compounds to store chemicals and
oil at the distance farther than 500 m from any surface waters
o        provision of potable water for the workforce in compliance with the relevant
national standards on drinking water quality. Prior to the beginning of worksite
operation the contractor shall enter into dialogue with the local authorities / water
supply utility to identify drinking water sources that will not compete with the
demands of the local population.
Equipment Servicing and Fuelling
The storage, transport and use of large quantities of diesel, fuel and other petroleum products
may cause chronic oil product pollution, entailing the impairment of groundwater aquifers and
surface water. This is specifically relevant where construction takes place in and over rivers and
streams.
To mitigate such impact and in compliance with the relevant provisions of the BCH 8-89, the
Contractor should apply the following measures: (i) fuelling and servicing of equipment and
machinery will be strictly confined to designated areas and using special devices; (ii) disposal of
wastes, materials, as well as filling and parking of vehicles is restricted within 100 m of water
drainage zones storage, handling and disposal of waste oil shall be managed and disposed of to
approved sites according to MENR requirements; (iii) washing of vehicles or any equipment in
the river or streams will be strictly forbidden. The contractor shall instruct his workforce
accordingly.
Site Preparation and Earthworks
Site preparation will entail the stripping and temporary storage of topsoil in the order of about
74,000m3. Depending on the individual location, this may bring about the risk of erosion of
exposed ground or topsoil and can also cause increased water runoff and siltation of
watercourses. Large quantities of material taken from cuts, such as on the approach to the Tovuz
valley, can lead to erosion which may also result in the siltation of the river and adversely affect
the aquatic ecology if not properly disposed of immediately after extraction. Excess material
may cause the loss of agricultural land, impair the biological environment or disfigure the
34



landscape. Heavy machinery moving around the construction corridor can create soil
compaction, which may harm the soil's further potential as farmland and impair drainage.
To minimize potential adverse impacts related to site preparation and in accordance with the
provisions of the SNIP 2.05.02.85 (i) top soil shall be stripped and reused, e.g. to cover areas
where excess materials will be dumped. Long-term stockpiles of topsoil will immediately be
provided with a grass cover or protected otherwise to prevent erosion or loss of fertility; (ii) soil
dumping sites for excess materials that may not be reused, will be identified during detailed
design; the general strategy shall, however, be to reuse those cut materials for smoothening the
embankments wherever possible; (iii) to minimize the risk of water or wind erosion excess
material shall be transported to the final disposal sites as extraction proceeds; the contractor
shall submit a soil management plan which provides the details on the concrete management of
excess materials including time frames and haul routes and shall seek approval of this plan from
the ESS's construction supervision consultant (CSC); (iv) to minimize adverse socio-economic
effects related to soil compaction workers will be advised to confine operations within 2 x 30 m
of the future road's centerline
Borrow Pits
According to the geotechnical investigations, the excess material from the cuts on the approach
to Tovuz Chay will be suitable for the construction of the road embankments. It is thus assumed
that there will only be little need for additional materials from the borrow pits - especially if the
proposed mitigation measures are considered during the subsequent detailed design. Table 3-1
provides the estimated quantities of cut and fill for the alignment and design alternatives under
study.
The borrow pits operations may in the unfavourable case result in chronic erosion and siltation
of the adjoining land and thus have substantial environmental impacts on soil, water and the
natural environment and disfigure the landscape if rehabilitation is neglected or not properly
implemented. Material transport from these sites may cause nuisance to settlements in the
vicinity of haulage routes through dust, noise and material spillage. In the case of borrow pit (on
Esrik Chay) trees at the entrance to and alongside the access road may be destroyed through
carelessness. In order to mitigate this potential impact the workers need to be instructed
accordingly.
(i) The contractor will set up a plan of each of the borrow sites that he intends to use which
provides information on their location and the measures to be taken to rehabilitate these pits
upon finalization of the Project. In accordance with the provisions of BCH 8-89, the Land Code
(1999) and the SNIP 2.05.02.85 the contractor will be required (ii) to remove topsoil prior to
excavation works and store it for the rehabilitation of the site after completion of works. In
order to maintain soil fertility and prevent erosion long-term stockpiles of topsoil will
immediately be provided with a grass cover or otherwise appropriately protected; (iii) to
minimize dust nuisance the contractor will be required to regularly water haul routes in the
vicinity of settlements. To this regard a dust management plan and spraying schedule shall be
submitted. (iv) trucks shall be covered to minimize dust and material spillage. (v) trees at the
entry to borrow site 1 and alongside the access road shall be preserved. Workers will be
specifically informed about this issue prior to the beginning of works. (vi) upon completion of
works the contractor will rehabilitate the site according to MENR requirements/permit
conditions.
35



Asphalt Plant Siting and Operation
In the case of the present Project it is recommended to scrutinize, whether the site that is
presently used in the Shemkhir to Gazakh section of the Ml. If this is not possible or wanted, an
alternative site for the installation of the plant should be selected such as to entail a minimum
impact on settlements and productive land. The prevailing wind direction should be taken into
account (see fig.3-1 Rose of winds in Tovuz city) and the distance to the near-by settlements
shall not be less than 500m as the crow flies. The optimal site shall be finally defined in the
detailed design and included in the tender documents.
Bridge Construction and Drainage Works
During the construction of bridges and culverts the runoff pattern of surface waters could be
impaired and water quality affected by increasing the silt load. Embankments and construction
materials (fill, gravel and sand) may be washed out by rainwater and contribute to the siltation
of channels or the river.
To minimize the risk of siltation on the Tovuz Chay bridge construction works shall be confined
to the period between early summer and mid winter (June-December). During this period, the
river only runs in small streams inside the riverbed, which may be temporarily diverted. The
discharge of sediment-laden construction water (e.g. from areas containing dredged spoil)
directly into surface water will be forbidden. Sediment-laden construction water will generally
be discharged into settling ponds or tanks prior to final discharge. To this regard, a method
statement for the organization and execution of bridge construction works shall be submitted by
the Contractor to the CSC/ESS for approval
Run-off Water
During construction, heavy metals, oils, toxic substances, and debris from construction traffic
and spillage may be absorbed by soils at the construction sites and carried with runoff water to
the river and other water sources. A further source of surface water pollution may be the
cleaning of construction vehicles and equipment in the river or leakages from machinery or
engines that are not properly maintained or controlled.
A run-off control plan shall be developed by the construction contractor which focuses on
managing potential problems at source, this will include as a minimum provisions for managing
run-off from vehicle washing; the containment of fuels, chemicals and waste stored on site;
measures to control spillage during vehicle refueling; the use of tarps on vehicles transporting
materials; and the prompt clean up of spills.
Waste Management
In accordance with local environment regulations solid waste generated during construction will
be disposed of on a regular basis to sites approved by local authorities. Random dumping of
solid waste is strictly forbidden. The construction contractor shall prepare a waste management
plan for the disposal of waste products including any hazardous waste generated during
construction.
The plan shall address the requirements of local environmental regulations.  The waste
management plan shall include an estimate of the types and quantities of waste matter, other
residual materials, and the rate at which these will be produced. The ways in which these waste
materials are to be handled should be indicated, together with the routes through which they will
eventually be disposed to the environment. The methods by which the quantities of residuals
36



and wastes were estimated should also be indicated. Since hazardous landfills are located near
Baku (approx. 400 km from the Tovuz area) and it is not expected that significant quantities of
hazardous waste would be generated the plan should also include appropriate arrangements for
the local storage and transport of this waste (as necessary).
5.2.2 Impacts during Operation
Run-off Water
Run-off water associated with rainwater or melting snow that washes off roads, bridges, and
other impermeable surfaces can lead to deterioration in water quality. As it flows over these
surfaces, water picks up dirt and dust, rubber and metal deposits from tire wear, antifreeze and
engine oil that has dripped onto the pavement, pesticides and fertilizers, and litter. These
contaminants can be carried into the river, soils and other shallow aquifers. The concentration
of pollutants in runoff waters is site-specific and is affected by traffic volumes, road or highway
design, surrounding land use, the amount and intensity of rainfall, and accidental spills.
Erosion during and after construction can also contribute large amounts of sediment and silt
to runoff waters, which can lead to further deterioration of water quality and severe
ecological problems.
Run-off water control is essential to prevent polluted runoff from reaching surface and
groundwater, to protect their quality, the environment and public health.  International best
practice management of run-off water includes the installation of permanent storm water
retention/detention ponds, API separators, slope protection, or grass strips, temporary sediment
traps, silt fences and diversion trenches.
In Azerbaijan, ensuring basic and essential road maintenance is a major issue and it is
unrealistic to expect that additional infrastructure for run-off controls would be adequately
maintained. Instead it is recommended that the Contractor engaged to support RTSD will
develop a spill management plan for responding to oil or chemical spills during operation, and
will ensure that adequate hands-on training is provided to RTSD for the implementing this plan.
In the approach to the bridge over the Tovuz Chay speed management measures will also be
introduced.
5.3 Impacts on the Human /Social Environment and their Mitigation
5.3.1 Impacts during Construction
Air Quality
During the construction period, degradation of air quality is likely occur from various sources
like exhaust emissions from the operation of construction machinery, fugitive emissions from
aggregates, concrete, and asphalt plants. Dust will be generated on the haul roads, unpaved
roads, exposed soils, and material stockpiles.
Mitigation of these impacts will be achieved by implementing the following: (i) maintenance of
construction equipment to good standard; improper functioning machinery that causes excessive
pollution will be banned from the construction sites; (ii) aggregate, asphalt and concrete plants
will be operated in compliance with the relevant pollution control guidelines of SNIP 111-4-80
regulations and located at such distances from human settlements that nuisances through
emissions, dust and offensive odours will be excluded. In this context the prevailing directions
37



of winds will be taken into consideration (see fig.3-1 Rose of winds in Tovuz city); (iii) with
regard to dust management the contractor will submit a dust suppression program to the PIU
prior to the beginning of construction. The plan will propose and describe action for the
minimization of dust generation (such as spraying the haul routes with water) and provide
information on the equipment to be used; (iv) to avoid competition with other local water
demands the contractor shall seek approval on the source of this water (e.g. groundwater, water
from river, from local supply utility etc.) from the local competent authority.
Noise and Vibration
On Alternative 2 the relevant noise standards for residential areas (45 dBA - night / 55 dBA -
day) are likely be complied with at both Duz-Jirdahan (at a distance of around 700 m as the
crow flies from the alignment) and Jallili (at about 400m distance) until about 202715. Due to its
connection to the M 1 in the south of Jalilli, this alternative does not provide noise relief for the
western fringes of this village. Due to the little distance between Jalilli and the M I compliance
with the relevant noise protection standards alongside the M I may become critical in this area
in the longer term. On alternative 2 the relevant noise standards will probably be exceeded in
the case of a detached residential house at about km 9+600 (to the right), which lies to only
about 100 m distance of the road.
Road construction will require the use of heavy machinery and thus entail high and sustained
noise during equipment operation. Where construction takes place in the neighbourhood of
human settlements the temporary averse impact on human welfare cannot be totally avoided. It
will, however, be reduced through (i) the restriction of working hours to between 0600 to 2100
hours within a 500 m distance of the adjoining settlements; (ii) strict enforcement of a
maximum noise level of 70 dBA in the vicinity of the construction site; (iii) ban of improper
functioning machinery that causes excessive noise pollution from the construction sites.
All above-mentioned measures would allow to keep the maximum noise level under 70 dBA
required by SNIP 111-4-80 regulations.
Temporary Nuisance for Local Communities
Another issue that is commonly associated with the construction period is the damaging of local
roads through the transportation of borrow materials and the use of these roads by heavy
construction equipment. It is recommended that prior to the start of construction the Contractor
revises the baseline condition of these roads. The physical condition of the public roads that
may be temporarily used as haulage routes shall therefore be subject to regular monitoring.
Upon completion of works such roads shall be rehabilitated to their prior condition and to the
satisfaction of the local authorities. The contractor will assure that construction practices will
comply with contract procedures and specifications. Where sub-contractors are assigned the
prime contractor who will be held responsible that the same contract provisions (good
engineering practice and standard good working practices) are applied. This will be supervised
by the construction supervision consultants employed under the project.
Health and Safety
Road construction sites have a potential for diseases to be transmitted, exacerbated by
inadequate health and safety practices. The contractor will thus be required to appoint an
environment, health and safety manager to take care of such concerns at the worksites and
cooperate with nearby communities and the MOH's District Disinfection Centre. Mitigation
5 Assumptions based on the figures of the traffic count 2005 and assurning an annual traffic growth
of 6%.
38



measures will include: (i) training of all construction workers in basic sanitation and health care
issues, general health and safety matters and on the specific hazards of their work; (ii) the
provision of adequate health care facilities within the construction sites, including a first aid
equipment and facilities; regular clearing of septic tanks from worker's camp and other mobile
toilets to prevent the outbreak of diseases; (iii) provision of adequate drainage throughout the
camp to ensure that stagnant water bodies and puddles which may be breeding sites for disease
vectors, do not form; (iv) provision of personal protection gear for workers, such as safety
boots, helmets, gloves, protective clothing, goggles, and ear protection in accordance with SNIP
111-4-80; (v) provision of clean potable water for all workers; (vi) provision of adequate
protection to the general public, including safety barriers and marking of hazardous areas in
accordance with the Safety Regulations for Construction, Rehabilitation and Maintenance of
Roads, 1978; (vi) provision of permanent safe access to all residents whose settlements and
access are temporarily severed by road construction operations. (vii) According to the MOH
(Dept. of Hygiene and Environmental Protection) an awareness campaign on the avoidance of
HIV/AIDS and STD will also have to be conducted and involve both the local community and
the construction workers. To this regard the contractor may seek cooperation with the AIDS
Centre in Baku to obtain practical advice.
Loss of Vegetation
Alternative 1 would entail the loss of an orchard of some 700 m width and require the cut of a
planted forest strip on some 30 m width. The latter negative impact would by far exceed the
extent of the immediate physical impact. The strip that would remain between the new road and
the existing Ml would loose its ecological functions. In this way the loss of an estimated 0,6 ha
of 60 year old forest would have to be replaced, which is rather unrealistic in the context of the
surrounding land-use for agricultural purpose.
In the north of Duz-Jirdahan alternative 2 would entail the loss of some 35 to 45 trees (mainly
pines and few cypresses and poplars) in the area of the planned roundabout/interchange flyover.
This impact can hardly be avoided, but trees can be replaced through new plantations. Given the
age of these trees and their aesthetic significance in the local context, they should be replaced in
a proportion of 1:3. An appropriate location would have to be identified during detailed design
and shall take the longer-term planning of a future interchange flyover into account.
Community Impacts
Construction worksites may place stresses on resources and infrastructure of the local
communities, which may result in tensions between the local residents and the workers. The
contractor shall therefore provide all necessary temporary facilities such as health care, eating
space and praying places at the worksite.
Moreover, a mechanism will be established by RTSD with participation of local executive
authorities which will enable local people to raise complaints on the construction processes.
According to road construction practice, local population is hired for non-professional works.
The use of local labour will increase the benefits of the local community and contribute to the
overall acceptance of the Project. In this regard, taking into consideration the importance of this
issue, the project team should prepare appropriate recommendations to the contractor.
Planting and replanting of trees in selected road sections offers a further significant opportunity
to benefit the local community. Implementation of this measure will be the responsibility of the
contractor who could sub-contract planting operations to local groups. To assure the selection of
39



appropriate quality and species and the proper execution of these works, the ESS will provide
technical support and guidance. The local groups will also be responsible to clear drains, cut
grasses etc. until the end of the Project liability period which lasts for six month after end of
road construction. This approach will be efficient, effective and economic as it allows to easily
resolve any problems and take action at the early stages. RTSD may decide if the same groups
shall be involved in the ongoing maintenance of designated areas along the road.
5.3.2 Impacts during Operation and their Mitigation
Traffic Noise
Ambient noise standards for different land use are defined in the Sanitary Norms CH
2.2.4/2.1.8.562-96. In Azerbaijan, traffic noise is only measured in response to complaints, and
tends to be more troublesome in summer, when windows are kept open. Regarding potential
nuisance of residents through operational noise from a new bypass, a rough calculation has been
made for the period 2007 to 2027 to identify the width of the corridor inside of which the future
noise level would exceed the relevant day and night standards, which are equal to 70 dBA.
According to the present land use in the vicinity of the study corridors the calculation has been
made for residential areas only. The basis of these calculations are the figures of the recent
traffic count (Feb. 2005) and the resulting assumption that 90% of the transit traffic would use
the road between 7.00 and 23.00 hrs. For this latter period, the relevant regulation determines a
standard of 55 dBA, while 45 dBA apply to the night time (23.00 - 7.00 hrs). The following
figure 4 illustrates the width of the corridors outside of which the relevant noise standards are
exceeded and how traffic noise may develop until 2027 according to the prospected 6% of
annual growth.
(day)   (night)
55 dB,  45 dB,
1.685    t                                    2007
362               140Gm7
5m
3.018                                         2017
544      . .......     210 m
,70 mn
5.404    L                           ,        2027
974       . iO0 m......'W    300 m
Fig. 5-1: Potential Development of Noise Pollution 2007 - 202716,17
In order to mitigate the potential impact of traffic noise and to serve as a buffer in accordance
with the provisions of SNIP 2.05.02-85, no. 3.9: (i) tree plantations will be provided in the
section between Jalilli and Duz-Jirdahan. With regard to the future upgrading operations to the
right side of the new road, the plantations should be done at the edges of the future ROW. (ii) In
16 Relevant noise quality standards according to Sanitary Norms CH 2.2.4/2.1.8.562-96, 1997
17 Figures based on: Nordic Prediction Method, Nordic Council of Ministers 1996.
Road Traffic Noise - Tema Nord 1996: 525
40



the longer term, regular monitoring of the development of noise levels can clarify if further
corrective action may have to be taken to comply with the existing noise standards.
Thus, Alternative 2 the relevant noise standards for residential areas (45 dBA - night / 55 dBA -
day) are likely be complied with at both Duz-Jirdahan (at a distance of around 700 m as the
crow flies from the alignment) and Jallili (at about 400m distance) until about 202718. Due to its
connection to the M 1 in the south of Jalilli, this alternative does not provide noise relief for the
western fringes of this village. Due to the little distance between Jalilli and the M I compliance
with the relevant noise protection standards alongside the M 1 may become critical in this area
in the longer term. On alternative 2 the relevant noise standards will probably be exceeded in
the case of a detached residential house at about km 9+600 (to the right), which lies to only
about 100 m distance of the road.
Air Pollution
Detailed calculations on the impact of road operation on air quality have not been made in the
frame of the present study. But taking into consideration the fact that in the frame of Yevlax-
Ganja Road Rehabilitation Project this calculations were done and the area of research, the
traffic intensity is almost the same, reference was made to the available data which provides
some figures on the issue. According to calculations of the 'worst case pollutant concentrations'
(CO, PM and NO2) on selected sections ('Yevlax bypass to Ganja bypass east' and 'Ganja
bypass') it is predicted that air quality in general will be in compliance with the national
19
ambient air quality standards'9.
Moreover, the aforementioned project's contribution to air emission has been calculated by
determining the total amount of pollutants generated under the 'with-project' and the 'without-
project' scenario. These calculations showed that the total amount of emission generated when
the project is completed will be higher (i.e. roughly by more than one third higher in 2018) than
that produced under the 'without-project' scenario.
This calculation is based on similar traffic volumes and the same design speed as the present
Project and calculations for the years 2008, 2013 and 201820. It is therefore assumed that the
result of these calculations can be applied to the present Project and that the relevant standards
for ambient air quality will be complied with. At the same time, it is highly recommended that
the RTSD carry out long-term monitoring to follow-up on the development of emission
concentrations along the new road. The competent institution may, however, carry out long-
term monitoring to follow-up the development of emission concentrations along the new road.
5.4 Socioeconomics
In general, the new bypass is clearly preferred by the local people and also accepted by the
people who will loose their agricultural lands against the fairly compensation based on the
land's current market price.
5.4.1 Impacts on the National economy
The World Bank Mission have done an economic analysis for the Tovuz bypass and found it to
have a good socioeconomic justification and a high economic rate of return. The results of
Is Assumptions based on the figures of the traffic count 2005 and assuming an annual traffic growth
of 6 %.
19 predictions made using CALINE-4 model for the year 2008.
20 Yevlax -Ganja Road Rehabilitation Project. IEE, Final Report. Engconsult Ltd. January 2005
41



Highway Development and Management (HDM-4) economic analysis method used by the
World Bank shows that Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) is equal to 15% and therefore
the investment is economically feasible. Better, faster and safer road transportation is expected
to improve also local economics, especially (agricultural) trade. The volume of trade is expected
to grow and have a positive impact on the national economy. The permanent loss of agricultural
land will have negative impact on agricultural production, but the impacts are not severe at the
macro level.
Some shops have benefited from transit traffic, but they mainly depend on local customers, and
impacts at the macro level are insignificant and not very deep on the local level.
5.4.2 Impacts on agriculture and animal husbandry
Both alternatives I and 2 will necessitate land acquisition of agricultural fields with 60 meters
width for the whole road length over the fields, i.e. approximately 10/14 kilometers depending
on the preferred alternative. The loss of land has negative impact on the agricultural production
in general and on some households in particular. Presently, it is not known how many of the
affected households are totally dependent on present land for their livelihood.
About fifty hectares are needed for the new road and this land is lost permanently. Additionally,
some land is temporarily used during the road construction. These lands are owned by private
households and villages. The lands lost are used for crop and vegetable cultivation and for
animal grazing. Some vineyards are very close to the proposed road corridor and need a special
attention in design to avoid any unnecessary losses.
If the lost lands are compensated by new agricultural land, the impacts on agricultural output are
temporary, as is the case with lands that are lost only for construction.
The present local roads will stay, although during the reconstruction they will go under the
highway. This will give possibilities of independent movement to farm equipment and animals.
Additionally, some new underpasses are needed for flocks of sheep and cattle, at least one
between the present roads to the northern villages as well as either sides of the new bridge over
Tovuz River which are used as pasture lands. The number and the locations of these safe
passages should be determined during the detailed design and negotiated together with the local
farmers during the further public consultations.
Temporarily, movements to and from the fields may be restricted during the construction
period. As a mitigation measure, the loss of crop is compensated. Also grazing lands for animals
may be restricted and in the case that no grazing can be done, new lands should be shown, or if
stall feeding is necessitated, compensation to buy for fodder is needed.
5.4.3 Impacts on household economy and /or loss of livelihood
More than two hundred households will permanently lose land and many more temporarily. The
compensations are, however, expected to mitigate economic losses. Temporary loss of land
and/or crops or trees during the construction period is compensated to producers, and hence, the
economic impacts are not severe or long term.
Presently it is not known how many households are economically dependent solely on
agricultural income and would lose livelihood due to the project. Alternative 2 consider
demolition of one garage and one restaurant. But possibly the same occupation can be continued
due to compensation of these buildings and if a new site can be given. However, if the owners
42



lose their livelihood, new employment should be offered or training for some other occupation.
Also these owners, if losing the livelihood, should be offered employment/ training.
The road project will not change the general trend but some local people will be employed for
construction work and hence temporarily decrease unemployment.
5.4.4 Impacts on living conditions
The present narrow but heavily trafficked road is causing many social and safety problems and
inconveniences to the local people. In the town, people's two biggest complaints are noise and
traffic accidents. With a new road, the noise level in Tovuz will decrease, improving living
conditions.
Due to the fact that the transit traffic would be moved out of the town, the present road could be
improved to better serve local population. Better and wider sidewalks should be constructed,
new trees could be planted to create more aesthetic and safe environment suitable for the Silk
Road.
The village municipality representatives from the villages north of the proposed road believe
that noise can be mitigated to the acceptable level. They were ready to participate in finding
good mitigation ways to decrease impacts. This readiness should not be understood by the
designers, planners and/or constructors that noise mitigation belongs solely to the locals.
During the construction, the noise and dust will create temporarily nuisances, and mitigation
measures are taken by the constructor.
5.4.5 Impacts on local traffic and traffic accidents
One of the biggest complaints of people was the heavy transit traffic causing accidents in the
town. The safe movement especially of the school children was the biggest concern. Traffic
accidents can be expected to be less on the old road, while the new good road gives possibilities
to use high speeds which may increase the risk of accidents in the vicinity of the settlements.
This necessitates speed limit regulations along the bypass. To mitigate these risks the Contractor
shall to construct traffic circles or two level crossings with the local roads.
There is also a concern of unplanned activities sprouting up along the new road. Some people
were happy to get the new road nearer the villages seeing it as a good possibility to sell their
agricultural products. In order to avoid these places to turn out prone to accidents, special safety
zones should proposed during the road detailed design. In addition safety measures and/or
regulations must be created by RTSD together with local authorities.
For traffic safety reasons, the design of these crossings should include at least a traffic circle to
slow down the speed, with construction of underpasses in the plans for future road expansion.
5.4.6 Dislocation of people or property
The alternatives 1 and 2 do not require any dislocation of family houses, but at the northern end
of the road alternative 2, a small garage and restaurant must be demolished. Monetary
compensation is needed for demolished buildings and an agreement reached with the owner as
to either monetary compensation or a new site. Also a wall around a private house will be
affected due to the two level intersection for Alternative 2. Also an underground gas pipe is
going here and needs a special attention from the designers not to be affected. The loss of
property must be compensated at its market price value.
43



5.4.7 Impacts causing demographic changes
These types of impacts are not to be expected.
5.4.8 Impacts on gender
Although there may be some differences in impacts met and felt by men or women, in general,
impacts are similar to both.
The privatized land was allocated to 'families', but registered under the family head's name i.e.
in practice under the husband's name. However, when the land is sold all family members have
to give their consent. The compensation received should also be addressed to all family
members.
Construction camps often cause the spread of venereal diseases around them and the negative
impacts are felt especially by women. As a mitigation measure, awareness creation about these
diseases and especially about HIV/AIDS should be given for the construction workers. This
responsibility belongs to the constructor.
5.5   Cultural and historic sites
The proposed bypass around Tovuz is located on the existing east-west corridor between Baku
and Tbilisi and as such, is an integral part of the well-known Silk Route. "The Great Silk Road"
was a system of ways that directly exercised live contacts, trade and exchange of cultural
achievements between the East and the West. Being an important part of this ancient trade
route, Azerbaijan has a rich history and more than 6,000 historical monuments dating back
thousands of years, and built by different cultures. Ancient cities and towns, palaces,
mausoleums, churches and mosques, chapels, caravanserais and watchtowers are just some of
the monuments that line this route.
Areas of archaeological significance are located at a sufficient distance from the proposed
bypass around Tovuz and these sites will not be impacted by the construction of this highway.
Mosques, other religious constructions and graveyards (one situated to the north of the
road alternative 1, near the northern intersection) will not be affected by any of the
proposed route alternatives. However, given the historical and cultural significance of the area,
a procedure will be developed by the construction contractor to address the management of any
sites of archaeological significance that are discovered during road construction. As a minimum,
in the event of the unexpected discovery of archaeological objects construction works would be
stopped and the appropriate local executive authority would be immediately informed. Works
will resume only after appropriate measures have been taken as requested by the appropriate
authority, and confirmation has been received from them that works may continue. The
requirements concerning measures in case of chance finds shall also be included in the bidding
documents for civil works.
44



6 ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
6.1 Comparative Assessment ofAlternatives from Environmental Point of View
As had been explained in chapter 6. 1, the overall sensitivity of the natural environment in both
study corridors can be assessed as relatively low regarding the alignment, construction or
operation of a new road.
This assessment mainly refers to physical long-term impacts related to the respective alignment
and to further permanent impacts on the natural and human environment that may result from
the operation of the road. Construction-related impacts are not considered in the comparative
analysis as they are of temporary nature and considered as virtually identical for both
alternatives.
Regarding the design alternatives a solution with a 'high bridge' would entail significantly less
impacts than alternative with a 'low bridge'. Even though elements of outstanding sensitivity
would probably not be effected, cuts in the order of about 2,751,000 m3 and the need to dump
large volumes of spoil is considered as an environmental impact that can be avoided. The
profiles and cross sections in fig. 5 illustrate the dimension of cuts related to the 'high / the
'low' bridge alternatives.
Fig. 6-1: Profiles and Sections of the Bridge Design Alternatives Under Study
34u
35  __ __ _ _      X              ___ Us  ,-
3'  __   __    _    __ _          ______              ___- -   _ X      =
S3  ______   _ _            _ ___         _               ___ _ 
240D      25ID      3000       3500      4000      45Dl      500S      550
Profrle of alternative with 'high bridge' over the Tovuz Chay
40n
3;1 9-I                             _    _    __        _     ___      -_ 
5411          __                -K- - X_                   __     __
_3q_____                                           =     _    _  .___  .
t---  l---  - 1  ---         -          4~~~~~~-  ------t--___  _   I-
20DO      250W       30D       35D0      4000      4500       SaW      M5D
Profile of alternative with 'low bridge' over the Tovuz Chay
45I0
]'M~    LzL         _                          L                 p --
I      I                           364J
50 4D 39 Z0 lU 0 14 20 30 40 50        50 40 30 2& 10  10 lO 3O 40 50
Section of alternative with a 'high bridge'  / a 'low bridge' over the Tovuz Chay
45



This figure clearly shows that the solution with a 'high bridge' would entail significantly less
impacts than alternative with a 'low bridge.'
6.2    Comparative Assessment ofAlternatives from Socioeconomic Point of View
Both proposed road corridors require acquisition of land. The Alternative 1 is longer than
Alternative 2 and will cause more compensation requirement.
No family houses need to be demolished for alternatives 1 and 2. In the northern intersection
some trees and a fruit orchard and two houses should be displaced in Alternative 1; garage,
restaurant and a wall in Alternative 2.
As to 3rd Alternative, the number of settlements constructed close to the area of this alternative,
would cause a problem of population resettlement.
Both Alternatives 1 and 2 can be designed in a way that will best mitigate the negative impacts
on agricultural activities, by constructing under road passages for local roads and for animals.
The trees and other plants could be planted to demarcate the future four-lane 'road and its right-
of-ways. For both it will be easy to set regulations against unplanned development and
movements by the road side such as different shops and hawkers. Also the traffic safety
measures will be the same for both alternatives.
From the social and cultural point of view there is no big difference between the alternatives 1
and 2, although the alternative 2 can be preferred.
In the north-east of Jalilli, Alternative 1 runs at about 70 m distance to a group of detached
residential houses and may thus entail the conflicts. As to Alternative 2, it might affect limited
number of houses.
Regarding the potential impact on the natural environment the road alignment Alternative 2 has
obvious advantages over Alternative 1. The latter would cut through a planted forest and impair
its ecological functions in the order of some 0, 6 ha through habitat fragmentation. A
compensation of such impact on a 60 year old forest would hardly be realistic in the context of a
landscape that is dominated by arable land.
The following matrix provides a comparative overview on the environmental implications of the
two alternatives under study.
Summing up, the result of the environmental assessment of alternatives is the recommendation
of alternative 2 in combination with a 'higher' bridge as the 'preferred solution'.
A 3rd Alternative, designed in the year 1989 was eliminated from further consideration in the
early stages of the study because the required design parameters for a Category 1 road could not
be met.
46



Table 6-1: Comparative Overview on Environmental Implications of Alternatives
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT                                        Alternative 1    Alternative 2
Total length of alignment                                       14.1            10.4 km
Earthworks:                  solution with low bridge cut   2,751,000 m3      2,75 1,000 m3
solution with low bridge fill  216,000 m3        216,000 m3
solution with high bridge cut   815,000 m3       815,000 m3
solution with high bridge fill  450,000 m        450,000 m3
HUMAN / SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT
Potential interference with human drinking water resources      no                no
Disturbance of recreational areas through noise or visual impairment  no          no
Loss of planted vegetation with economic or aesthetic significance  yes (forest,  yes (35 - 45 trees)
orchard)
Potential new noise impact on human settlements             yes, medium-  yes, medium- to long
to long term         term
Potential new noise impact on detached residential buildings    5 - 7              1
(numbers)
Need to destroy residential buildings                            no               no
Need to destroy other structures                                 no               Yes
garage and restaurant
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
Destruction / disturbance of protected areas                    no                no
Destruction / impairment of sensitive natural habitat of rare or
endangered species of animal or plants                          no                no
Loss / impairment of secondary habitats of common animal species  yes (0,6 ha of  no
planted
forest, about
60 years old
Requirement to dump excess material (high bridge)            365,000 m3       365,000 m3
(low bridge)                   2,535,000 m3    2,535,000 m3 22
21
6.3 'Without Project Scenario'
The existing 5 km road section through Tovuz forms an integral part of the TRACECA network
in the Caucasus region. The current and planned rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Ml and
the long-term plan to upgrade this corridor to a uniform 4 lane standard reflect its significance in
the regional, national and international context. These aspects together the recent traffic
forecasts for the road section under study illustrate the difficulties and inconveniences that both,
the inhabitants of Tovuz and the transit road users, would face should the present situation
remain unchanged. The given infrastructure conditions inside Tovuz, however, will not allow
for the upgrading of the existing road.
The present EA has resulted in the selection of an alternative as the 'preferred solution which is
in line with the results of the technical and economical studies. It could be shown that major
adverse environmental impacts are not to be expected from the proposed alternative 2 and that
the environmental implications related to construction and operation can generally limited to
21 These volumes may still decrease if parts of these volumes are used to smoothen the embankments of the
new road. This is recommended in the present study but will be planned in detail during the detailed design
22 These volumes may still decrease if parts of these volumes are used to smoothen the embankments of the
new road. This is recommended in the present study but will be planned in detail during the detailed design.
47



acceptable levels through the implementation of an appropriate environmental management
programme. Regarding the urban development potential for Tovuz, the elimination of transit
traffic will offer opportunities for a series of positive changes and developments (e.g.
completion of the pedestrian sidewalks to either side of the road and the provision of proper
drainage infrastructure throughout the entire corridor). Road safety will improve and nuisance
through dirt, dust and noise be reduced.
In this general context the 'without-case' is a scenario that cannot be recommended from an
environmental perspective.
The present narrow but heavily trafficked road is causing many social and safety problems and
inconveniences to the local people. If the transit traffic is moved out of the town, the present
road could be improved to better serve local population and their needs by constructing better
and wider sidewalks and possibly planting trees, or by exploring other ways creating more
aesthetic and safe local environment.
The Tovuz bypass is meant to improve transport and communication on the national level. The
improvements will also include the local region and Tovuz town. If properly designed, it will
not hamper the present social and economic life of the local population but can be an impetus
for socioeconomic development in the area.
Comparison between any of the proposed bypass alternatives and the present road, based on the
collected socioeconomic information, favors the construction of the new road.
7     PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND INFORMATION DISCLOSURE
7.1   Public Consultation Meetings
To comply with WB and national EA policies and to help RTSD achieve public acceptance for
the Project two public meetings were held in Tovuz.
The first of these official meetings was convened at the very early stages of the Project: after its
announcement in the local newspapers on December 25th it took place in Tovuz on December
28th 2005. A total of 62 people (residents of Tovuz and neighboring villages and Municipality
officials) attended this meeting and were informed about the project objectives and the
alternative solutions under consideration.
The second meeting was convened on February 25th and attended by about 80 local residents.
The regional offices of the MENR were also officially invited but did not attend. At the
occasion of this meeting a presentation was made on the purpose, methodology and results of
the present EA, on the 'preferred solution', its potential environmental implications and the
proposed environmental mitigation and monitoring measures. A CAD-presentation was also
given to visualize the design of this 'preferred solution'. However, no specific comments were
made on both these presentations. The questions that were raised during the following
discussions rather related to the socio-economic consequences, e.g.:
* What will be the land acquisition process?
*  Can we plant and use our harvest this year?'
* What is the classification of the land categories?
* I want to definitely know whether my land will be acquired or not.
48



* Will our ideas on compensations be considered or will the Government establish their
own rates?
* What is the basis for the determination of the price for our land?
* Will the price be a lump sum or a lifelong rent?
The minutes of both these meetings are attached in Appendix B.
In order to strengthen the public consultation process according to the World Banks Operational
Policy, the Independent Consultant recommended to RTSD and assisted it to realize the
following public meetings:
1)       Public Consultation Meeting was held in Tovuz on March 26, with participation of
representatives of Local Executive Power, Contractor, Ministry of Environment, NGO's, and
local TV. Sunmmary of prepared EA and EMP was published in the local newspaper "Tovuz"
prior to meeting and population had opportunity to become familiar with the Project results in
advance. Presentation of EA and EMP was accompanied by PowerPoint presentation prepared
by Contractor. The copy of prepared draft EA was given to local authorities to guarantee the
access of affected groups. Totally 104 person participated in this meeting. (Minutes of meeting
are attached in Appendix B). 25 participants filled out the forms and expressed their opinions,
concerns and proposals regarding the Project implementation. Some recommendations and
proposals for EA and EMP update were given during the meeting and incorporated into these
documents.
2)       Formal presentation of EA and EMP to RTSD was held by Contractor in Baku on
March 30, with participation of the World Bank mission led by the Mr. Le Ber Senior Transport
Specialist, RTSD, PIU Representatives. During the presentation the RTSD representative
expressed his concerns and gave several suggestions on the content of technical, financial,
environmental, and social problems related to design. Some recommendations and proposals for
EA and EMP update were given during the meeting and incorporated into these documents.
3)       Public Consultation Meeting was held on April 08 in Aarhus Public Environmental
Information Center, allocated in Baku with participation of local NGO's dealing with the
environment issues. The summary of prepared EA and EMP was delivered to participants and to
Center prior to meeting and NGO's had opportunity to become familiar with the Project results
in advance. Presentation of EA and EMP was accompanied by PowerPoint presentation
prepared by Contractor. The meeting was attended by 12 people. Some recommendations and
proposals for EA and EMP update were given during the meeting and incorporated into these
documents (See Appendix A).
7.2   Information Disclosure
After completion of the study the EA reports and Land Acquisition Plan will be submitted to
RTSD and the IDA and be made available at a public place accessible by affected groups and
local NGOs.
Further informal consultation and disclosure will be done during implementation through:
* the preparation and dissemination of a brochure in Azeri, explaining the people's
entitlements and the procedures for obtaining compensation for land acquisition,
temporary disturbances, loss of trees, crops and land for construction sites and recording
grievances;
49



* setting up a formal grievance redress committee with a representation from the affected
people. CSC in association with the contractor will be responsible for managing the
effective grievance program.
8     ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
8.1   Institutional Responsibilities and Arrangements
Implementation of environmental mitigation measures during construction will mainly be the
responsibility of the contractor. According to the present institutional responsibilities and
arrangements the routine procedure would be that the environmental manager of the contractor
will supervise this process and coordinate with the environmental specialists of the ESS and the
district RTSD, responsible for the practical implementation of the EMP.
Given the yet very limited relevant environmental background and experience of the ESS, it is
proposed to provide the RTSD with the temporary assistance of an expatriate CSC. This CSC
will have a specific civil engineering / environmental management background and shall
provide hands-on training to the ESS throughout all stages of design and construction. In
cooperation with the ESS the CSC will ensure that the relevant national environmental quality
standards and the EMP for this Project are complied with and liaise with the Contractor's
Environment, Health and Safety Manager to ensure that all operations will be in accordance
with the contract provisions.
The TORs for these consultancy services will have to be elaborated during the detailed design
phase of the Project. To this regard the PIU will have to be carefully consider appropriate timing
to assure optimal results and coordination with other training TA for the ESS (see under 8.4).
The ESS, with the support of its CSC, will provide regular update of information by submitting
reports to RTSD and the MENR.
Upon Project completion the RTSD will be in charge of the operation and maintenance of the
Project Road. Routine and random monitoring will be undertaken by RTSD offices as scheduled
in the monitoring plan (table 4). Moreover, the following measures will be required to perform
an effective environmental compliance monitoring programme during Project implementation:
*        The tender and contract documents will clearly set out the construction contractor's
obligation to undertake environmental mitigation measures as set out in the Environmental
Management Plan in Appendix A;
*        The cost for the recommended environmental mitigation measures will, where
possible, be made separate items in the Bill of Quantities. Such allocation of a separate budget
for carrying out environmental mitigation measures will be crucial to assure their ultimate
implementation. During procurement, contractors will be specifically encouraged to include
these costs in their rates and present the mitigation cost as a line item in the Bill of Quantities.
An identified extra payment will be included in the contract to ensure that environmental
mitigation measures are coasted and implemented.
*        The contractor will be explicitly requested to recruit an environmental, health and
safety manager, who will be responsible for implementing the contractor's environmental
responsibilities, this EMP and liaising with district RTSD and the CSC / ESS. The manager will
also be responsible for health and safety aspects of work sites.
50



The following table 8-1 summarizes the various institutional responsibilities for the
implementation of the environmental monitoring programme.
Table 8-1: Summary of Institutional Responsibilities for the Implementation of the
Environmental Monitoring Programme
Project Stage  Responsible Organisation        Responsibilities
Detailed
Design
RTSD                           Incorporate mitigation measures into detailed engineering
design and technical specifications; Provide TORs for
capacity building TA in the ESS
RTSD, MENR                     Review and approve proposed environmental mitigation
and monitoring measures
Investment Department          Allocate appropriate budget to undertake environmental
monitoring and capacity building for ESS;
Construction
Contractor (with support of his  Implement required environmental mitigation and
Environment, Health & Safety   monitoring measures
Manager)
In the absence of a qualified district Supervise contractor's implementation of environmental
road maintenance engineer: ESS  measures on a routine basis and enforce contractual
with the guidance and support of  requirements on EMP
the CSC
CSC                            Audit construction phase through environmental
inspections and collection of monitoring data. Submit
quarterly reports Provide hands-on-training to ESS staff.
Provide awareness / training to workers and technology
transfer to the contractor;
ESS with the guidance and support  Ensure compliance with Government legal and WB
of the CSC;                    requirements during construction, the EMP and LAP
District offices of MENR / MOH  Review potential complicated issues arising from the
Project;
CSC and ESS                    Upon Project completion: prepare and submit final report.
Operation
ESS / District Maintenance Unit  Undertake routine environmental monitoring, prepare
reports.
8.2 Environmental Management Plan
The Environmental Management Plan is a crucial element to safeguard the human and the
natural environment during both, construction and operation of a road. It incorporates measures
to manage and monitor the effects of the Project on the environment. In the construction phase it
commonly refers to the proper management of work camps, asphalt plants and material storage
areas; safety provisions at the work site and for the temporary management of traffic, the
restoration of borrow pits, erosion protection in the new embankments, and further issues that
may be raised by the local communities. At this stage it mainly entails the supervision of the
construction contractor to check compliance with the relevant contract provisions. To facilitate
this supervision contract documents will include the EMP.
During Project implementation the CSC, in cooperation with the PIU and ESS will:
51



* develop an environmental auditing protocol for the construction period, and elaborate the
details of the EMP;
* regularly supervise the road Project and the collection of environmental monitoring and
performance data; submit quarterly reports based on the monitoring results.
Upon the completion of construction the responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the
road will lie with the RTSD. In this phase the ESS in cooperation with district RTSD offices and
MENR will perform routine and random monitoring as scheduled in the monitoring programme
in Table 8-2 below.
Table 8-2: Summary Environmental Monitoring Programme
Construction Phase
Impact                     Location                   Means of Monitoring        Frequency of Monitoring
Dumping of excess material  All designated dumping    Inspection of dumping sites  Spot checks; ongoing
and landscaping of disposal  sites. Refer to maps of
sites                      dumping sites
Soil erosion               Bridge construction sites  Site inspection           Ongoing
and selected locations of
Tovuz bypass
Chemical storage and use   Contractor's yard and all  Site inspection            Ongoing / monthly
construction sites
Asphalt plant              Applied to entire project  Site inspection           Ongoing / monthly
road. No plant within 500
m of settlement
Condition / damage of local  All project road         Site inspection            Ongoing / monthly / after
roads                      construction sites                                   complaint
Dust                       Throughout project roads,  Site inspection           Ongoing / after complaint
access roads, construction
sites, asphalt plants and
borrow sites
Noise and vibration        Worksites and borrow areas  70 dBA (day) at the work  Monthly
sites
Consultation with the      Ongoing
communities
Health and Safety          All construction sites and  Site inspection          Ongoing / monthly
worker's camp
Waste disposal             Contractor's yard and all  Inspection of waste disposal  Spot checks
project road construction  sites and work sites
sites
Community instability      Entire project road        Community consultation     Before construction,
thereafter monthly or after
complaint
Public safety              Entire project road        Site inspection           Ongoing
Rehabilitation of all      Haul routes, worker's      Site inspection           At the end of the
temporarily used sites     camps and all other areas /                           construction period
sites that were temporarily
used during construction
Operational Phase
Issue                      Location                   Means of Monitoring        Frequency of Monitoring
Greening and landscaping   ROW width of 60 m plus     Site inspection            Ongoing / yearly
any areas to be cleared
Noise                      Neighbouring settlements   Noise measurements         Every 5 years or after
(Duz Jirdahan and Jalilli)  Relevant standards:       complaint
55 dBA (day) /45 dBA
(night) for nearby
settlements
52



Road safety        Entire project road  Collection of accident data  Ongoing / yearly
and site inspections;
Storm water and drainage  Entire project road  Site inspections  Ongoing
system
8.3 Monitoring of Socioeconomic Impacts
The socioeconomic aspects are subject of special interest of the international donors/financiers
the main negative impacts during the road construction are usually caused by land acquisition.
The applications for compensations would be collected by the RTSD with Contractor's
participation and forwarded to appropriate Government of Azerbaijan to be accepted and
approved. Compensation is for loss of land and/or crop yield and should not be affected by other
income sources. Compensation must be paid to people before any construction work starts, i.e.
immediately after the road design has been finished.
Although the state is responsible to pay compensations, there is no clear and constant
compensation system which is used to pay compensations. The different state funds are used in
different projects depending on the case and agreements done. It is recommended that the
compensations would be paid from the Counterpart Fund. Monitoring could be done by the
RTSD or by specially hired a Supervisory Consultant to do it.
8.4 Capacity Development and Training
The previous chapters have outlined the various environmental management tasks that the ESS
will have to perform in the frame of the present Project and according to their official mandate.
Just 2 within the 5 staff members of this newly established sector in the RTSD are directly
responsible for environment issues. However, they do not have the appropriate background
knowledge or practical experience to perform this task. The same applies to the district level
where no staff is yet available to carry out the various environmental management tasks.
For this reason, capacity development and training will be required to implement the present
Project in accordance with the relevant national and WB standards and to start forming a
functioning, effective and efficient ESS in the RTSD that can independently carry out
environmental monitoring and implement environmental management plans.
The nature and expected relatively short duration of the present Project are assessed as an ideal
opportunity for providing the ESS with concrete capacity building and on-the-job training
throughout construction. To this regard an external advisor to the ESS (CSC) will practically
support the ESS in their various day-to-day tasks throughout the construction phase and provide
concrete hands on training on environmental management in road construction and operation. In
a further step the ESS could then on their part provide training to the future District staff of the
Road Maintenance Department, to perform routine environmental monitoring during the
operational phase of the present and other projects.
The TORs for this TA should be formulated in the forthcoming design phase of the Project. The
timing and concept should be carefully considered to achieve optimal benefits. In this context it
should also be assured that the aforementioned training course that was proposed in the frame of
an ADB-funded TA23 would take place prior to the commencement of the present capacity
development programme.
23 see IEE of the Yevlax to Ganja Road Rehabilitation Project
53



To overcome logistical constraints that may result from the more than 400 km distance between
the Project area and Baku and to generally improve the framework conditions for a better future
performance of the ESS, it is also proposed to purchase a cross-country vehicle and office
equipment.
8.5 Cost Estimate
Table 8-3: Environmental Management Costs (in US $) for Alignment 2
Environmental Costs - Civil Works (included in Contractor's civil works package)
Item                             unit quantity     unit cost     total
a) Dust nmanagement measures                        day       150         125      18,750
b) Provision of an Environment, Health and
Safety Manager                                  MM         12       3,000      36,000
c) Landscaping measures at dumping sites for
excess material                                  m3   365,000         0.5     182,500
d) Stripping of top soil (0-200 mm) and storage
for reuse24                                      m3    74,000         2.5     185,000
e) Grassing of road embankments > 3 m high           m2    55,000         1.0      55,000
I) Tree planting between Jalilli and Duz-
Jirdahan25                                       km      2 x 2      5,000      20,000
g) Replacement of felled trees26               lump sum         1       5,000       5,000
h) Provision of information display boards on the
Project in the main intersections & settlements
site               4         500       2,000
Subtotal                                                         499,250
Environmental Costs - Road Transport Service Dept. Budget
Environmental mitigation & monitoring during construction
i) Remuneration
Int. Environmental Specialist (CSC)        MM                12      20,000     240,000
j) Travel
International Travels                      Trip               4       2,000       8,000
Domestic Travels27                         lump sum           1      25.000      25.000
k) In-house training / seminar materials     lump sum           1       5,000       5,000
Subtotal                                                         278,000
Equipment and materials for ESS of RTSD
1) Information brochures on the grievance
process / compensation procedure (500 p.)      lump sum         1       3,000       3,000
m) logistics (I car, 2 PCs and I printer)      lump sum         1      20,000      20,000
Subtotal                                                          23,000
Total                                                            800,250
24 including seeding or other means of protection during stockpiling to preserve fertility
25 including watering for a period of 2 years
26 including watering for a period of 2 years
27 Including accommodation for fieldwork in Tovuz, costs for driver and fuel
54



8.6 General Observations
Experience from uncounted road construction sites around the world and recent information
obtained at the occasion of site visits of presently ongoing rehabilitation works on the MI in
Azerbaijan have shown that the implementation of proposed Environmental Management Plan -
even though elaborated to appropriate detail in the preceding planning phases - is very often
ineffective when it comes to project implementation. The reasons for this often lie in the
preparatory phases of road construction. The following list proposes a series of measures that
the competent bodies may systematically take into account in the future to improve on that
situation in the various stages of project preparation and implementation:
Preparation of Tender Documents/Design Review:
*  Where possible, define separately priced items for the implementation of the environmental
safeguard and mitigation measures provided for in the Environmental Management Plan;
*  Define appropriate performance bonds and defect liability bonds / guarantees for the proper,
complete and timely implementation of the intended / designated measures;
*  Review of Draft Tender Documents by competent environmental Authority or specifically
skilled staff / extemal consultant.
Pre-qualification of Contractor:
*  Introduce requirement for specific environmental qualifications of potential contractors;
Procurement Assistance:
*  Introduce 'mandatory site visit' at the occasion of which the bidder will be specifically informed
about general environmental requirements, environmentally critical points, specifically sensitive
areas or required safeguard measures etc. The protocol of this 'mandatory site visit' would be
integrated into the contract;
Evaluation of Tenders:
*  Seek independent expert opinion on the completeness and correct pricing of all required
environmental safeguard and mitigation measures;
* On the side of the donor: carry out internal review before 'no-objection' is issued.
Contract Negotiations:
* Last opportunity to seek independent expert opinion (local or external) on the correct pricing of
all required environmental management measures;
Pre-Construction Phase/Preparatory Works:
*  Establish an environmental quality management system/plan which must be reviewed and
approved by the competent authority (in the present case: ESS);
Construction Phase:
*  The Construction Supervision Team should appoint a designated Environmental Construction
Supervisor (ECS) who would be in continuous contact with the RTSD/ESS and the Contractor.
It should explicitly be stated that the contractor's performance bond includes all environmental
items as set out in the EMP and will only be released after final acceptance through the ECS.
55



9  RESETTLEMENT AND LAND ACQUISITION PLAN
According to the WB Operational Policy/Bank Procedure on Involuntary Resettlement, WB-
assisted projects would avoid or minimize involuntary land taking. If such cannot be avoided,
the policy requires that the borrower prepares the Land Acquisition Plan (LAP) for
compensating loss of assets of displaced persons. The LAP for this Project should be developed
during the detailed design phase, and compensation be completed prior to the commencement of
civil works.
9.1 Number of Land Owners in the Project
In the project area, land is owned by individual farmers and municipalities. The size of the
privatized landholdings depend on family size (every person got the same size) and on the
quality of land (equal distribution). This leads to different holding sizes and to dispersed fields
which may be far apart and sometimes also far from settlements. Holdings are quite narrow
strips side by side and hence the number of owners is considerable. Most land is cultivated by
its owners and many plots are rented to somebody else. Also some municipality lands are
rented. Although most land is under crops and generally private, low quality lands are often
municipality owned and used only as pasture, sometimes on rental basis.
The municipality heads estimate, based on the visits in the fields and land ownership
records/maps about how many owners will be affected due to construction of road alternative 2.
Private land owners belong to seven different settlements. Although the road alternatives divert
at their ends, the pattem of land distribution is similar, but longer with alternative 1, where
additionally one orchard would be lost and compensation needed.
Table 9-1: Possible Land Acquisition for Alignment 2
Settlement           ha        Affected families
Duz-Jirdahan                8              35
Bozalganli                 7.5             46
Abulbayli                  10.7            41
GaraGanli                  4.0             20
Khatinli                   3.0             40
Dondar Gushchu              7              40
Ashagi Gushchu             1,5             12
Before the final design, it is impossible to estimate the precise numbers of the households or the
real impacts to any individual household. Additionally land is owned by municipalities which
also loose their land and must be compensated.
9.2 Price of Land
Taking into consideration the importance of this issue for smooth and timely implementation of
the Project from one side and the significance of land ownership for local people maximum
attention should be paid to the process of land valuation.
According to the Land Code, land to be taken to public use must be compensated by market
price which will be determined by independent experts and agreed by both parties. Municipality
lands are not to be sold with less than its nominal price.
56



During the field visit and Public Consultation meeting held in Tovuz, the Independent
Consultant was informed by local people about land acquisition methods and practice used
during land acquisition process for oil and gas pipelines. The main complain of the population is
the lack of information about timing this whole process, criteria for price determination, and
poor public involvement in decision making. There were frequent complaints of lack of
information and knowledge about compensation process and principles, despite the fact that the
representatives of people who lose the land participate in the negotiation.
Taking into consideration the sensitiveness of land acquisition process, all existing complains of
the population, and, in order to assure smooth Project implementation, the RTSD administration
is recommended to: 1) guarantee broad involvement of affected population into appropriate
Commission activities; 2) provide timely and objective information on the whole process of
land acquisition; 3) create effective monitoring system on the process of fair and timely
monetary compensation to population.
Knowing limited local capacities and for guaranteeing fairly valuation of acquisition lands there
is a need for legal assistance both to local authorities and land owners prior to start of
negotiations process.
Compensations for all kinds of land should be conducted according to the local legislation
9.3 Acquisition and Compensation Procedure and Schedule
According to the Memorandum of Understanding between the World Bank and the Government
of Azerbaijan on Land Acquisition for this road, applications for compensations and
information for it are collected by the representatives of the District Executive Power and the
Azerbaijan State Land and Cartography Committee. The information collected includes (a) the
type of land: if sowing land, pasture, garden, dry-farming or irrigated land, (b) buildings, (c)
plants already sown or to be sown during the next season and (d) perennial herbs, trees and their
age and quantity. The final approval and acceptance belong to the Cabinet of Ministers. In the
case of the disputes over procedure, these are solved by the District Executive Power,
Municipality and Court (Land Code: Article 103).
The proposed bypass road will have two lanes first, but in the future it will be widened into four
lanes and this will require 60 m wide right of way. It is recommended that the whole 60m
corridor will be bought at a time and compensated to the land owners immediately.
At the same time, it is not clear now when this road will be rehabilitated into a four lane road.
Practically, it means that for several years arable lands would stay without use. The budget of
many current land owners is tied to these lands, and therefore it is quite possible that they would
try to continue using these lands illegally. In order to prevent this from happening, there are two
options:
* The RTSD plants trees or other objects in the used land.
* The RTSD lends the land to former owners of the land
There are advantages and disadvantages in both options.
57



The first option has advantages that i) the aesthetics around the road will be improved; ii) soil
erosion can be prevented; and iii) administration is relatively simple. The disadvantages of the
option include: i) social tension may be created as potentially arable land is left unused; ii)
villagers may still cut plants or remove objects to use the land for farming; and iii) thus RTSD
may need to hire new staff to prevent this.
The second option proved successful during the construction of oil and gas pipelines in the same
administrative area and was positively received by local population. The management of these
pipelines signed agreements for land renting and allowed previous owners to use their former
lands just for agriculture, i.e. no permanent structures (e.g. houses) could be constructed on this
land. The advantages of this option include: social peace can be maintained as villagers are
allowed to continue farming; and ii) RTSD will receive increased income as rent. The option
however has disadvantages: i) villagers may fail to pay rent as agreed; ii) the RTSD currently
does not have enough capacity to administer the rented land and thus needs capacity
development and additional expenditure to administer the option; and iii) villagers may refuse to
abandon the land despite the agreement when the time comes that RTSD needs to take the land
to expand the road.
Whichever options to take, the RTSD is advised to assess the advantages and disadvantages
carefully.
Although the state is responsible to pay compensations, there is no clear and consistent
compensation system which is used to pay compensations. The different state funds are used in
different projects depending on the case and agreements done.
It is recommended that the compensations needed for the construction of the Tovuz Bypass
would be paid from the Counterpart Fund and compensations monitored by the RTSD.
Compensation must be paid to people before any construction work starts, i.e. immediately after
the road design has been finished.
58



REFERENCES
AGAMALIYEVA, KONOVALOVA Ecological Features of Azerbaijan Soils", 2004, Baku
Cartographical factory
BEKTASHI, L. and CHERP, A. (2002) Evolution and Current State of Environmental
Assessment in Azerbaijan. Impact Assessment and Project Assessment,Vol. 20, no 4,2002.
ENGCONSULT Ltd.: Yevlax -Ganja Road Rehabilitation Project. IEE, Final Report. January
2005
FATMA ABDULLAZADE and VAGIF BAKHMANLI: Azerbaijan. Baki 1998
HOBAN, Chr., and TSUNOKAWA, K. (1997): Roads and the Environment. A Handbook.
Worldbank Technical Paper no. 376. Washington, 1997.
KOCKS Consult GmbH / BCEOM / FINNROAD ltd. Rehabilitation and Upgrading of the
Gazakh - Georgian border Road Section. Engineering Report. October 2002.
MAIN STATE ECOLOGICAL EXPERTISE: Standards and Regulations on Environmental
Control with Respect to Economic Activity.
MEMORANDUM of UNDERSTANDING on LAND ACQUISITION: Baku-Qazakh-Georgia
Borders, "Silk Road" land Acquisition Works. Agreement between the Azerbaijan Government
and International Development Association and the Decree of the President of Azerbaijan
Republic of 6 September 2001
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT GUIDELINES AND
PROCEDURES
RED DATA BOOK of AZERBAIJAN. Baku, 1989 'Ishig'
RUSTAMOV, S., JAFAROV, B. GAJIBEKOV, N. (1959): The Water Balance of the Rivers of
The Lesser Caucasus Basin."ELM", Baku 1959
UNDP (1996): Handbook for the Environmental Impact Assessment Process in the Azerbaijan
Republic. Baku, 1996
THE WORLD BANK: Aide Memoire Azerbaijan Highway Project. September 16, 2004
THE WORLD BANK: Environment Assessment. OP 4.01, January 1999
THE WORLD BANK: Content of an Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Category A
Project. OP 4.01-Annex B, January 1999
THE WORLD BANK (1998): Azerbaijan Cultural Heritage Sites, April 1998
THE WORLD BANK (1998): Azerbaijan Soils, April 1998
STATISTICAL YEARBOOK of AZERBAIJAN 2002. The Sate Statistical Committee of
Azerbaijan
STATE COMMITrEE ON ECOLOGY AND CONTROL OF NATURAL RESOURCES
TRANSPORT and COMMUNICATION of AZERBAIJAN 2003. The State Statistical
Committee of Azerbaijan Republic
UTILIZATION (1998): Azerbaijan Republic, National Environmental Action Plan. Baku, 1998
UNDP: Handbook for the Environmental Impact Assessment Process in Azerbaijan. Baku, 1996
UNEP State of the Environment Report. Internet Document
59



USAID (2000) Biodiversity Assessment Report Azerbaijan. Internet Doc
YEVevlax -Ganja Road Rehabilitation Project. IEE, Final Report. Engconsult Ltd. January
2005
60



LIST OF PEOPLE MET
Mr. ALLAZOV, Kamran          Road Transport Service Dept., Deputy Head of Ecology & Safety
Sector
Mr. ABDULLAYEV, Akbar        Consultant
Mr. ASLANOV, Azer            Ministry of Environment and Nature Resources, Unit for Standards
and Technical Requirements in Ecological Expertise
Mr. DOTCHEV, S.I.            Resident Engineer (Yevlakh to Gazakh Road Project)
Mr. GASIMOV, Shahbaz         Azerkorpu Tovuz. Deputy of Chairman
Mr. GULIYEV, Rafayel         Ministry of Environment and Nature Resources, Dept. 2., Head of
Dept., Gazakh
Mr. IBRAHIMOV, Elgam          Abulbayli, Municipality Representative
Mr. IBRAHIMOV, Israil        Garakhanli, Municipality Representative
Mr. MAMMADOV, Nuratdin       Khatinli Municipality Representative
Mr. MAMMADOV, Rasim          Duz-Jirdahan, Representative of the District Executive Power
Mr. MUSTAFAYEV, Yashar       Ministry of Environment and Nature Resources, Dept. 2, Advisor,
Gazakh
Mr. RZAYEV, Ramiz            Ministry of Environment and Nature Resources, Department of
State Expertise, Deputy Head of Department
Mr. RUSTAMOV, Jabir          Head of the Architecture Department, the District Executive Power
Mr. SHAKURU, Shervin         Ministry of Health, Dept. of Hygiene and Environmental
Protection; Chief Expert
Mr. SULTANOV, Jeykhun        Ministry of Environment and Nature Resources, Dept. 2. Inspector,
Gazakh
Ms. TAGIZADE, Leyla          Ministry  of Health, Dept. of Hygiene and Environmental
Protection; Head of Dept.
Mr. VALIYEV, Majnun          Louis Berger S.A., Material Engineer (Yevlakh to Gazakh Road
Project)
61



Appendix A: Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan



ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIOECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PLAN
FOR TOVUZ BYPASS PROJECT
I.     Mitigation Measures
Potential Impact        Activity                  Miti2ation Measures                     ImWlementati     Monitoring     Timin2
on by            b
Design Phase
Soil
Soil erosion            Deep cuts in the area of the  Provision of slope retaining structures or  Detailed Design  RTSD   Detailed
Tovuz Chay bridge         plantation of shrubs (local species with  Consultants                   design phase
appropriate adaptation to local climatic
conditions) should also be considered in
these sections.
Loss of agricultural    Dumping of large volumes  In the forthcoming planning phase, priority  Detailed Design  RTSD      Detailed
land                    of excess materials during  shall be given to use excess materials for the  Consultants           design phase
the earthworks            smoothening the embankments such as to
minimize the need to dump any excess
materials.
What cannot be used for this purpose will
have to be dumped. The final decision on
the most appropriate sites for dumping of
these excess materials will be made during
detailed design..
A separate budget is to be provided to cover
the costs for these measures.
Possible impairment of  Siting and operation of   Scrutinize whether the site that is presently  Detailed Design  RTSD    Detailed
agricultural production  asphalt plant            used for the rehabilitation on the Shamkhir  Consultants                design phase
to Gazakh section may be foreseen for the  based on
1



Potential Impact       Activity                  Miti2ation Measures                    Implementati    Monitoring     Tirming
on by           b
present Project.                       indications
If this is not feasible, an alternative site  made in the
should be selected such as to entail a  frame of the
minimum impact on productive agricultural  present study
land .The optimal site shall be finally
defined in the detailed design and included
in the tender documents.
Water
Siltation of streams or  Dumping of large volumes  In the planning phase, priority shall be  Detailed Design  RTSD     Detailed
the river              of excess materials during  given to use excess materials for the  Consultants                  design phase
the earthworks            smoothening the embankments such as to
minimize the need to dump any excess
materials.
The final decision on the most appropriate
sites for dumping of these excess materials
will be made during detailed design. The
identified locations must be shown in the
tender documents, including specifications
on drainage and landscaping requirements.
Run-off water          Deterioration in water    The construction Contractor shall develop a  Construction  RTSD       Prior to
quality due to polluted run-  run-off control plan which will focus on  Contractor              construction
off waters from the       managing potential problems at source. This
construction sites        will include as a minimum: provisions for
managing run-off from vehicle washing; the
containment of fuels, chemicals and waste
stored on site; measures to control spillage
during vehicle refueling; the use of tarps
on vehicles transporting materials; and the
prompt clean up of spills.
Air
2



Potential Impact       Activity                 Mitigation Measures                    Implementati    Monitorin2     Timing
on by           by
Air pollution          Siting and operation of  Scrutinize, weather the site that is presently  Detailed Design  RTSD  Detailed
asphalt plant            used for the rehabilitation on the Shamkhir  Consultants              design phase
to Gazakh section may be foreseen for the  based on
present Project.                      indications
If this is not feasible, an alternative site  made in the
should be selected such as to entail a  frame of the
minimum impact on settlements. The     present study
prevailing wind direction should be taken
into account and the distance to the near-by
settlements shall not be less than 500m as
the crow flies. The optimal site shall be
finally defined in the detailed design and
included in the tender documents.
Noise                  Alignment of a new road  Tree planting is recommended to serve as a  Detailed Design  RTSD     Detailed
buffer against traffic noise in the section  Consultants             design phase
between Jalilli and Duz-Jirdahan. The
concrete location of these plantations will
be determined during the detailed design.
A separate budget is to be provided to
implement these measures.
Dust                   Alignment of a new road  Tree planting is recommended to serve as a  Detailed Design  RTSD     Detailed
buffer against dust in the section between  Consultants              design phase
Jalilli and Duz-Jirdahan. The concrete
location of these plantations will be
determined during the detailed design.
Landscape
Disfigure of the       Dumping of large volumes  In the forthcoming planning phase, priority  Detailed Design  RTSD   Detailed
landscape              of excess materials during  shall be given to use excess materials for the  Consultants        design phase
the earthworks           smoothening the embankments such as to
minimize the need to dump any excess
materials.
Traffic &Road Safety
3



Potential Im act      Activity                 Mitigation Measures                    Imulementati    Monitoring    Timing
_______________                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on   by 
High speed and         Road Intersections       Either traffic circles or two level crossings  Design  RTSD          Planning/
accidents possibility                           for local motor vehicle traffic.       Consultant                    design
Under-road passages to animals and farm                              period
equipment. Preferred places should be
found by negotiating with local farmers.
Present local roads    Road alignment           Road alternatives should be considered. Detailed Design  RTSD        Detailed
temporarily will be                             Additionally, some new underpasses are Consultants                   design phase
disrupted                                       needed for flocks of sheep and cattle, at
least one between the present roads to the
northern villages as well as either sides of
the new bridge over Tovuz River which are
used as pasture lands. The number and the
locations of these safe passages should be
determined during the detailed design and
negotiated together with the local farmers
during the further public consultations.
Nuisance to the local  Temporary use of local   There will be consideration in detailed  Detailed Design  RTSD        Detailed
population and social  roads through construction  design to maintain local roads in appropriate  Consultants         design phase
instability            traffic may cause their  condition during construction and to repair
damage                   local damaged roads to their original
condition after completion of works. To this
regard appropriate budget will have to be
provided.
Land Acquisition
Road land acquisition   Road land need delineated  To mitigate negative impacts the Land  Detailed design  RTSD       Detailed
Acquisition Plan/Matrix should be      Consultant                    design Phase
developed
Delineating land needed for the four lane
highway (trying to avoid especially
vineyards).
Permanent loss of      Road alignment           Data for compensation collected with the  RTSD         Cabinet of     Compen-
4



Potential Impact       Activity                  Miti2ation Measures                    Implementati    Monitorin2     Timin2
on bv           b
private and                                      District Executive Power and the State Land            Ministers      sated before
municipality land                                and Cartography Committee.                                            construction
Land (and other) property compensation
paid according to the Memorandum of
Understanding. Paid from the Counterpart
Fund based on market price.
Private Property
Demolition
Loss of agricultural   Dumping of large volumes  In the forthcoming planning phase, priority  Detailed Design  RTSD    Detailed
land                   of excess materials during  shall be given to use excess materials for the  Consultants         design phase
the earthworks            smoothening the embankments such as to
minimize the need to dump any excess
materials.
Loss of agricultural   Land acquisition          Pennanent loss of land: Compensation for  RTSD,         Cabinet of    Once or
income                                           loss of yield for an agreed discount period.  Local authorities Ministers  annually as
Temporary loss of land and income:                                    agreed
compensation depending on time and type
of loss, negotiated with and agreed by local
farmers
Impact on the          The loss of land due to   The lost lands should be compensated   RTSD             Cabinet of    Compen-
agricultural production  road alignment          by new agricultural land. In this case the              Ministers     sated before
in general and on some                           impacts on agricultural output are                                    construction
households in                                    temporary, as is the case with lands that
particular                                       are lost only for construction period.
Garage and restaurant  Loss of buildings and/or  Lost buildings such as a garage and    RTSD,            Cabinet of    Compen-
demolition             income due to road        restaurant are compensated at market prices. Local authorities  Ministers  sated before
alignment                 To avoid a loss of income due to loss of a                            construction
building, new site for a garage should be
allocated by the municipality.
Construction Phase
5



Potential Impact       Activity                 Mitigation Measures                   Imolementati    Monitoring    Timing
on by           by
General
Temporary              Construction works       The temporary employment preferably to  Contractor    RTSD          Construction
employment                                      persons who will be affected by the road                            phase
possibilities                                   construction works.
Soil
Contamination from     Construction camp        Location of construction  camp to be  Contractor      RTSD/ESS      Construction
the worker's camp                               apoebylclauthorities to minimize                      and CSC       phase
adverse socio-economic effects.                        ocau
Authorites
Related to soil compaction workers will be
advised to confine operations within 2 x 30
m of the future road's centerline
Provision of confined sites for vehicles
maintenance and fuelling designed to
contain spilled lubricants and fuels. To this
regard the contractor shall submit a
description of fuel storage and its location,
and of the filling station and car washing
site to the local executive and sanitary
authorities, including a statement on their
location, further than 500 m from the water
sources and irrigation systems;
Chronic erosion and    Borrow pit operation     * The contractor will set up a plan of each  Contractor  RRTSD/ESS  Construction
siltation of the                                of the borrow sites that he intends to use            and CSC       phase
adjoining land                                  which provides information on their
location on the haul routes he intends to
use and the measures foreseen to
rehabilitate these pits upon finalization of
the Project;
* Top soil will be removed prior to
excavation works and stored for its
rehabilitation after completion of works. To
6



Potential Impact       Activity                 Mitigation Measures                    ImWlementati    Monitoring     Timing
on by           b
maintain soil fertility and prevent erosion
long-term stock-piles of topsoil will
immediately be provided with a grass cover
or otherwise adequately protected;
* Upon completion of works the contractor
will rehabilitate the site according to MENR
requirements /permit conditions;
Surface water ecology  Erosion of exposed ground  * Top soil shall be stripped and reused.  Contractor  RTSD/ESS      Construction
problem                or topsoil; increased surface  Long-term stockpiles of topsoil will             and CSC        phase
water runoff and siltation of immediately be provided with a grass cover
watercourses during site  or protected otherwise to prevent erosion or
preparation and earthworks  loss of fertility.
Loss or agricultural   Dumping of excess material * Soil dumping sites for excess materials
land, impair of the    during the site preparation  that may not be reused will be identified
biological environment, and earth works         during final design.
disfigure of the                                * Prior to the beginning of earthworks the
landscape                                        contractor shall submit a soil management
plan which provides the details on the
concrete management of excess materials
including time frames and haul routes and
shall seek approval of this plan from the
ESS's CSC;
* To minimize the risk of water or wind
erosion excess material shall be transported
to the final disposal sites as extraction
proceeds.
* To minimize adverse socio-economic
effects related to soil compaction workers
Soil compaction may    Use of heavy machinery   will be advised to confine operations within
harm the soil's further  moving around the      2 x 30 m of the future centreline.
potential as farmland  construction
7



Potential Imnact       Activitv                 Miti2ation Measures                    Implementati    Monitoring    Tirming
on bv           by
and impair drainage
Pollution of soils     Establishment and        Contractor shall submit a separate plan of  Contractor's  DRTSD and   Prior to the
operation of worker's    his work camp describing the layout of his  EHSM       CSC            beginning of
camp/contractor's yard   work camp and detail proposed measures to                            the
avoid or reduce adverse environ-mental                               construction
impacts resulting from its installation and                          phase
operation. As a minimum, the following
measures will be taken:
* Establishment of a waste management
plan covering the following: regular waste
collection and disposal from
worksite/contractor's yard (may be
temporarily integrated into the existing
waste collection systems and disposal
facilities of Tovuz); separate collection of
toxic and harmful waste as well as used tires
to be handled in cooperation with an
approved, authorized partner, according to
the relevant regulatory provisions and
disposed of at designated sites according to
MENR;
* Provision of confined sites for vehicle's
maintenance / fuelling / washing designed
to contain spilled lubricants and fuels;
Water
Negative impact on     The siltation of river and  To minimize the risk of siltation on the  Contractor  ESS's CSC    Construction
aquatic ecology        streams during the bridge  Tovuz Chay bridge construction works shall           and ESS        phase
construction and drainage  be confined to the period between June and
works                    December. The discharge of sediment-
laden construction water (e.g. from areas
8



Potential Impact       Activity                 Mitigation Measures                    Implementati    Monitoring     Timing
on by           bA
containing dredged spoil) directly into
surface water will be forbidden. Sediment-
laden construction water will gene-rally be
discharged into settling ponds or tanks prior
to final discharge. To this regard, a method
statement for the organization and execution
of bridge construction works shall be
submitted by Contractor to the ESS for
approval.
Impediment of water    Construction works       * The contractor will take all necessary  Contractor   RTSD/ESS       Construction
quality and flow regime                         measures to prevent earthworks and stone                              phase
works related to road construction from
impeding the flow of rivers / streams and
canals or existing irrigation and drainage
systems.
* disposal of wastes, materials, as well as
filling and parking of vehicles is restricted
within 100 m of water drainage zones.
.   washing of vehicles or any equipment in
the river or streams will be strictly
forbidden. The contractor shall instruct his
workforce accordingly.
Contamination of       Accidental spillage of   At the site the Contractor shall avoid that  Contractor  ESS, PIU with  Construction
ground- or surface     bitumen or any lubricants  bitumen possible do not enter into dry or            assistance of  phase
water                  for the dilution of the  running stream beds nor may it be disposed             MENR if
bitumen during the       of in ditches or any waste disposal site. The          required
operation of the bitumen  bitumen storage and mixing area must be
mixing plant             effectively protected against spill.
Contaminated soil shall be hand-led
according to MENR requirements or other
acceptable standards. As a minimum, these
areas must be contained as to allow
immediate collection and clean up. Any
9



Potential Impact       Activity                  Miti2ation Measures                    Implementati    Monitoring     Timing
on by           by
petroleum pro-ducts shall also be carefully
managed to avoid spills and the
contamination of the local groundwater
table.
The construction contractor shall prepare a
method statement on siting of the mixing
Wlant and handling of bitumen spills which
he shall propose to the PIU and the ESS in a
meeting to be held prior to the
commencement of works.
Chronic oil product    The transport and use of  * Fuelling and servicing of equipment and  Contractor  RTSD/ESS       Construction
pollution, entailing the  large quantities of diesel  machinery will be confined to designated          and CSC        phase
impairment of          fuel and other petroleum  areas and servicing protocols be regularly
groundwater aquifers                             established;
and surface water                                * Storage, handling and disposal of waste
oil shall be managed and disposed of to
approved sites according to MENR
requirements;
* Washing of vehicles or any equipment in
the river or streams will be strictly
forbidden. To this regard the contractor will
inform his workforce accordingly.
Pollution of ground-   Establishment and         The contractor shall submit a separate plan  Contractor's  RTSD/ESS   Prior to the
and surface water      operation of worker's     of his work camp describing the layout of  EHSM         and CSC       beginning of
camp/contractor's yard    his work camp and detail proposed                                     the
measures to avoid or reduce adverse                                   construction
environ-mental impacts resulting from its                             phase
installation and operation. As a minimum,
the following measures will be taken:
* Provision of appropriate latrines and
sewage collection systems and
establishment of a simple sewage
10



Potential ImDact       Activity                 Mitigation Measures                    Implementati    Monitoring    Timing
management plan which shall be submitted
to the PIU for approval.
* Provision of secure, impermneable and
bounded compounds to store chemicals and
oil distant from any surface waters;
Water supply            Establishment and       * Provision of potable water for the   Contractor's    RTSD/ESS       Prior to the
problems for the       operation of worker's    workforce in compliance with the relevant  EHSM        and CSC       beginning of
workforce              camp/contractor's yard   national standards on drinking water                                 the
quality. Prior to the beginning of worksite                          construction
operation the contractor shall seek approval                         phase
on the source of his drinking water and
water construction from the local competent
authority.
Pollution of surface   Accidents on the Tovuz   To mitigate such risk it is proposed to  Contractor    RTSD           Construction
water.                 river bridge when vehicles  enhance safety (i) by providing specific                           phase
containing toxic or      signalization at reasonable distances from
hazardous materials are  the bridge, including speed reduction if
involved                 need be; (ii) carry out measures according
to the spill contingency plan for cleaning up
the hazardous and toxic materials (i.e. oil,
fuel, toxic substances). The preparation of
such a plan was already recommended in
the frame of the Initial Environment
Examination of the Yevlax-Ganja Road
Rehabilitation Project. In case it would not
be realized, RTSD's ESS should organize
preparation of such a plan when the present
Project comes into implementation.
Air
Degradation of air     Exhaust emissions from the  Mitigation of these impacts will be achieved  Contractor  RTSD     Construction
quality                operation of construction  by implementing the following: (i)                                  phase
machinery, fugitive      maintenance of construction equipment to
11



Potential Imnact      Activity                 Mitigation Measures                  r Implementati  Monitoring     Timing
on by           by
emissions from aggregates,  good standard; improper functioning
concrete, and asphalt plants  machinery that causes excessive pollution
will be banned from the construction sites;
(ii) aggregate, asphalt and concrete plants
will be operated in compliance with the
relevant pollution control guidelines
regulations and located at such distances
from human settlements that nuisances
through emissions, dust and offensive odors
will be excluded. In this context the
prevailing directions of winds will be taken
into consideration
Flora &Fauna
Loss of trees          Construction of new     Replanting of roadside trees in the area of  RTSD/ESS and  RTSD     At the end
roundabout               the new roundabout in the south of Jalilli.  CSC                   of the
An appropriate location would have to be                            construction
identified during detailed design and shall                         phase
take the longer-term planning of a future
interchange flyover into account. The
concrete implementation of this measure
will have to take into consideration that
subsequent planning phases envisage the
construction of an interchange flyover in
this area.
Entrance to borrow pit I  Workers will be specifically informed about                       Construction
and alongside the access  this issue.                                                       phase
road
Noise
High and sustained    Use of heavy machinery   The noise should be reduced through (i) the Contractor  RTSD        Construction
noise place in the    during equipment         restriction of working hours to between                             phase
neighborhood of       operation.               0600 to 2100 hours within a 500 m distance
human settlements                              of the adjoining settlements; (ii) strict
12



Potential Impact       Activitv                  Miti2ation Measures                    Implementati    Monitoring     Timing
on by 
Material transport from   enforcement of a maximum noise level of
borrow sites              70 dBA in the vicinity of the construction
site; (iii) ban of improper functioning
machinery that causes excessive noise
pollution from the construction sites.
All above-mentioned measures would allow
to keep the maximum noise level under 70
dBA required by regulations.
Dust
Nuisance to local      Material transport from   Establishment of a dust control program: In  Contractor  RTSD         Construction
population living      borrow sites              the vicinity of settlements or where the local                        phase
alongside the haul                               population might be affected the contractor
routes through dust                              will be required to regularly water haul
and material spillage                            routes. This will also apply to temporary
access routes to aggregate sites. For these
areas the contractor will prepare a spraying
schedule which is the basis of the dust
control program. Trucks shall be covered to
minimize dust and material spillage.
Waste
Worker's camp waste    Worker's camp operation   Establishment of a waste management    Contractor       RTSD          Construction
plan covering the following: regular                                  phase
waste collection and disposal (may be
temporarily integrated into the existing
waste collection systems and disposal
facilities of Tovuz); separate collection
of toxic and harmful waste as well as
used tires
Solid waste generated  Construction works        The construction contractor shall prepare a  Contractor,  RTSD        Construction
during construction                              waste management plan for the disposal of  RTSD and local             phase
waste products including any hazardous  authorities
13



Potential Impact       Activity                 Miti2ation Measures                    Imniementati    Monitorin2    Timing
on by           b
waste generated during construction.
The waste management plan shall include
an estimate of the types and quantities of
waste matter, other residual materials, and
the rate at which these will be produced.
The methods by which the quantities of
residuals and wastes were estimated should
also be indicated. The plan should also
include appropriate arrangements for the
local storage and transport of this waste (as
necessary).
Traffic &Road Safety
Transportation         Loss of access to local  Temporary bypasses should be built to  Contractor      RTSD           Continuous
difficulties during    roads during the         facilitate nonnal traffic between settlements                        information
daily activities       construction works       and the town as well as moving farm
equipment and/or animals to fields and
pastures.
Construction schedule should be informed
to local people
Traffic injuries and   Violations of road safety  The contractor will                  Contractor      RTSD/ESS,      Construction
fatalities; disruptions  during construction work  * provide measures to allow for the                 Police and     phase
and access restrictions                         adequate traffic flow around construction              CSC
areas;
* provide adequate signalisation, barriers
and flag persons for traffic control;
* inform the public about the scope and
schedule of construction activities and
expected disruptions and access restrictions
through community consultation and
newspaper announcements.
Land Acquisition
14



Potential Imnact       Activity                 Mitigation Measures                   Imulementati    Monitoring    Timin2
on by           by
Two hundred             Road alignment           The compensations would mitigate      Contractor      RTSD, Local   Prior to
ouseholds will                                  economic losses. Temporary loss of land               Authorities   Construction
ermanently and                                  and/or crops or trees during the construction                       phase
emporarily lose land.                           period is compensated to producers, and
hence, the economic impacts are not severe
or long term.
Private Property
Demolition
Movements to and       Construction operations  As a mitigation measure, the loss of crop is Contractor  RTSD, Local  Prior to
from the fields may be                          compensated. Also  grazing  lands  for                Authorities   Construction
restricted                                      animals may be restricted and in the case                           phase
that no grazing can be done, new lands
should be shown, or if stall feeding is
necessitated, compensation to. buy for
fodder is needed.
Small   garage   and   Construction operations  Monetary compensation is needed for   Contractor      RTSD, Local   Prior to
restaurant  must   be                           the demolished buildings and according                Authorities   Construction
demolished.                                     to the agreement with the owners either                             phase
monetary compensation or a new site
must be offered. Also a wall around a
private house will be affected due to the
two level intersections. An underground
gas pipe is going here and needs a
special attention from the designers not
to be affected. The loss of property must
be compensated at its market price
value.
Traffic Disruption
Damaging of local      Transportation of borrow  It is recommended that prior to the start of  Contractor  RTSD, Local  Prior to
roads                  materials and the use of  construction the Contractor revises the              Authorities   Construction
15



Potential ImPact       Activity                  Mitigation Measures                    Implementati    Monitoring     Timing
on by           by
these roads by heavy      baseline condition of these roads. The                                phase
construction equipment.   physical condition of the public roads that
may be temporarily used as haulage routes
shall therefore be subject to regular
monitoring. Upon completion of works such
roads shall be rehabilitated to their prior
condition and to the satisfaction of the local
authorities. The contractor will assure that
construction practices will comply with
contract procedures and specifications. This
will be supervised by the construction
supervision consultants employed under the
project.
Transportation         Loss of access to local   Temporary bypasses should be built to  Contractor      RTSD           Through
difficulties           roads                     facilitate normal traffic between settlements                         construction
and town
Traffic problems       Construction activities   Appropriate measures to redirect traffic that  Contractor  RTSD, Local  Prior to
are easily seen or easy to follow including            Authorities    Construction
preparation of traffic Management Plan                                phase
Pedestrian Safety      Construction activities   Appropriate lightning and well defined  Contractor     RTSD, Local    Prior to
safety signs included in the traffic                   Authorities    Construction
Management Plan                                                       phase
Health Safety
Health hazards for     Construction works        * Regular maintenance of construction  Contractor       ESS with      Construction
construction workers                             equipment to good standard; inproper                   assistance of  phase
and neighbouring                                 functioning machinery that causes excessive             MENR and
residents                                        pollution will be banned from the                      MOH if
construction sites;                                    required
* Aggregate, asphalt and concrete plants
will be operated in compliance with the
relevant pollution control regulations and
located at such distances from human
16



Potential Impact       Activity                 Miti2ation Measures                    Implementati    Monitoring    Timing
on by           b
settlements that nuisances through
emissions, dust and offensive odours will be
excluded. In this context the prevailing
directions of winds will be taken into
consideration.
Nuisance for the local  Construction works      * In the vicinity of settlements working  Contractor   ESS            Construction
population in the                               hours will be restricted to between 0700 to                           phase
vicinity of the                                 2100 hours within a 500 m distance of the
construction site                               adjoining settlements;
* Strict enforcement of a maximum noise
Nuisance & health                               level of 70 dBA in the vicinity of the
risks for the workforce                         construction site;
* Ban of improper functioning machinery
that causes excessive noise pollution from
the construction sites.
Nuisance for           Development of dust and  * The contractor shall submit a dust   Contractor      ESHE and       Construction
neighbouring residents  hannful fumes/offensive  management programme and a spraving                   CSC with       phase
odours during material   schedule indicating the areas to be sprayed            support of the
transport and construction  (all areas where dry materials are being            district
Safety and health risks                         handled and / or crushed; haul and                     monitoring
for the workforce                                construction roads and any other temporary            units of
access roads) and the proposed frequency of            MENR if
spraying.                                              required
* All vehicles transporting materials will be
covered to reduce dust and spills;
. Asphalt application is made by spraying
hot liquid bitumen onto an aggregate base.
Bitumen preparation sites are generally
noisy, produce harmful fumes, offensive
odours and constitute a considerable fire
risk. Therefore, the bitumen preparation and
loading site will have to be at a minimum
17



Potential Impact       Activity                 Miti2ation Measures                   Implementati    Monitoring    Timing
on by           by
distance of 500 m and downwind from any
community development. Moreover, the
contractor must have spill and fire fighting
equipment readily available to deal with any
accidents.
* Mixing and crushing plants and
operations must be equipped with dust
suppression devices, e.g. water sprays.
Operators should permanently wear dust
masks and ear protection (also see under
'Health & Safety below)
Nuisance for          Improper drainage or dirt,  * Provision of a communication channel  Contractor  DRTSD and     Throughout
neighbouring residents  disturbance or loss of  between the CSC / contractor and the local            CSC           the
access to the main road  community through the establishment of a                             construction
during the temporary use of  formal grievance redress committee with a                       phase
local roads              representation from the affected people;
* Provision of advance notice to the
affected communities about the construction
schedule;
. Provision of permanent safe access to all
residents whose settlements and access are
temporarily severed by road construction
operations;
. Repair of damaged local roads to their
original condition after project completion.
Deterioration of       Poor work site conditions  . Appointment of an environment, health  Contractor's  RTSD and   At the
worker's health                                 and safety manager in the Construction  EHSM          ESS/ CSC      beginning of
Supervision Team;                                                   the
* Application to MOH's Central                                      construction
Disinfection Centre and the Tovuz District                          phase and
Disinfection Centre to obtain approval on                            appropriate
the general living conditions and sanitary                          intervals
18



Potential Impact       Activity                 Miti2ation Measures                    ImPlementati    Monitorin2    Timing
on bv           by
provisions in the worker's camp;                                     throughout
* Ttraining of all construction workers in                           construftion
basic sanitation and health care issues,
general health and safety matters and on the
specific hazards of their work;
* Assure good drainage at all sites within
the construction camp to avoid stagnant
water bodies which may become breeding
sites for vectors of waterbome diseases;
* Provision of adequate health care facilities
within the construction sites, including a
first aid equipment and facilities; regular
clearing of septic tanks from worker's camp
and other mobile toilets to prevent outbreak
of diseases.
. Provision of personal protection gear for
workers, such as safety boots, helmets,
gloves, protective clothing, goggles, and ear
protection;
. Provision of clean potable water for all
workers;
* Provision of adequate protection to the
general public, including safety barriers and
marking of hazardous area;
Potable water problem  Contractor's Camp         Prior to the beginning of worksite operation  Contractor  RTSD, Local  Prior to
operation                the contractor shall enter into dialogue with          Authorities    Construction
the local authorities / water supply utility to                      phase
identify drinking water sources that will not
compete with the demands of the local
population.
Spread of HIV/AIDS     Low level awareness on   All construction workers will be adequately  Contractor's  DRTSD,     At the
and STD to the local   HIV/AIDS and STD         informed about HIV/AIDS and STD and on  EHSM           Ministry of    beginning of
19



Potential Impact       Activity                 Mitigation Measures                    ImWlementati    Monitorin,g    Timing
on by           by
community                                       how to avoid infection and transmission;               Health and /  the
Group consultation will be also done to                ESS's CSC     construction
create awareness among the community                                 phase and
about these diseases. To this regard the                             appropriate
contractor may subcontract or cooperate                              intervals
with the AIDS Centre in Baku to obtain                               throughout
practical advice.                                                    construction
Tensions between the   Construction worksites may  The contractor shall provide all necessary  Contractor  RTSD, Local  Construction
local residents and the  place stresses on resources  temporary facilities such as health care,        Authorities    phase
workers                and infrastructure of the  eating space and praying places at the
local communities        worksite.
Mechanism will be established by RTSD
with participation of local executive
authorities which will enable local people to
raise complaints on the construction
processes.
Cultural Heritage
Archeological findings  Construction works.     In the event of the unexpected discovery of  Contractor  RTSD, Local  Construction
archaeological objects the Contractor should           and           phase
immediately notify local and archaeological            Archaeological
authorities and follow their directions.               Authorities
Construction works would be stopped and
the appropriate local executive authority
would be immediately informed. Works will
resume only after appropriate measures
have been taken as requested by the
appropriate authority, and confirmation has
been received from them that works may
continue. The requirements conceming
measures in case of chance finds shall also
be included in the bidding documents for
20



Potential Impact        Activity                 Mitigation Measures                     ImPlementati    Monitoring     Tiring
on by           by
civil works,
Operation Phase
Water
Surface and ground      Run-off water associated  A spill management plan for responding to  Contractor,  RTSD          Continuous
water contamination     with rainwater or melting  oil or chemical spills during operationshall  RTSD
by run-off waters      snow                       be prepared, and adequate hands-on training
will be provided to RTSD by the contractor
engaged to support RTSD to ensure the
implementation of this plan.
Surface water           Accidents on the Tovuz    * Improve road safety by providing     DRTSD            RTSD/ESS       Operational
contamination by toxic  river bridge              appropriate signalisation at reasonable                                phase
or hazardous materials                            distances from the bridge, including speed
reduction if need be.
* Develop special spill contingency plan
* Carry out measures according to spill
contingency plan for cleaning up hazardous
and toxic materials (i.e. oil, fuel, toxic
substances)'.
Flooding                Inappropriate maintenance  * The drainage system will be periodically  Contractor  RTSD          Operational
of storm water drainage   cleared so as to ensure adequate storm water                           phase
system                    flow. Local community groups under
contract from the RTSD will be responsible
for cleaning the drainage facilities,
especially the clogging of cutting of grasses
and clearing shrubs etc. Employing local
workforce will be efficient and effective and
economic as these localized problems can
1 The preparation of such plan was already recommended in the frame of the ADB-funded IEE on the Yevax to Ganja Road Rehabilitation Project. It is thus assumed that
such tool will be available to all DRTSD's and the EHSU when the present Project comes into implementation.
21



Potential Imnact       Activity                 Mitigation Measures                    Implementati    Monitorin2    Timing
on bv           by
be easily resolved at their early stages.
Noise
Permanent nuisance     Traffic noise            * In the medium and longer term regular  Contractor    DRTSD         Operational
for local residents                             monitoring of the development of noise                               phase
levels shall be canried out to clarify if
further action needs to be taken to comply
with the relevant regulations. This would be
the case when noise levels exceed 55 dBA
during the day / 45 dBA during night time
(all potentially affected areas to be
considered as 'residential'). Mitigation
measures could be earth benrns, noise
barriers.
Air
Dust nuisance          Inappropriate sanitary   * Maintain and clean roads properly;   ESS             ESS and        Operational
control                  * Replace roadside tree plantations lost to            DRTSD          phase
construction and encourage new tree
plantation and landscaping projects.
Pollution by emission  Exhaust emissions from the  Mitigation will be achieved by maintenance  Contractor  RTSD, Local
operation of construction  of construction equipment to good standard;          MOH
machinery, fugitive      improper functioning machinery that causes
emissions from aggregates.  excessive pollution will be banned from the
construction sites;
Traffic &Road Safety
Traffic accidents      Violation of road        Speed limits and warning signs for road  RTSD          RTSD,          Continuous
regulations              safety close to road crossings, especially if          Traffic Police
these are not two level crossings.
Animals should use only under-road
passages constructed for that purpose.
Unplanned encroachment to the new
roadsides should be avoided/ stopped.
22



Potential Impact       Activity                  Mitigation Measures                    Imulementati    Monitorin2     Timine
on_by           by
Information about safe traffic behavior to
people should be clear and frequent.
Erosion, rock fall,      Install appropriate warning signs, reflective  RTSD     RTSD,          Continuous
hazardous conditions      markers to indicate unsafe places. Locate              Traffic Police
warnings at points considered appropriate
by good engineering practice.
Road accidents         Violation of regulations  * Study road accidents properly and    DRTSD           RTSD/ESS       Operational
identify the causes and implement                                     phase
appropriate mitigation measures
* Properly maintain road signs, markings
and information displays.
Unplanned       activities In order to avoid these places to turn out  RTSD      RTSD, Local    Continuous
sprouting up along the new  prone to accidents, special safety zones             authorities,
road.                     should proposed during the road detailed               Traffic Police
design. In addition safety measures and/or
regulations must be created by RTSD
together with local authorities..
Land Acquisition
Unused land occupied   Area of new road ROW      Unused but compensated land can be rented  RTSD        RTSD ,Local    As agreed
for crops/ animal                                to the previous (or other) owners for                  Authorities    between
growing annual crops.                                                 parties
No permanent structures are allowed.
II.    Monitoring Plan
Impact                   Location              Means of               Parameters         Frequency of         Responsibility
Monitoring                                Monitoring
General
Community instability  Entire project road        Community            Public stability     Before construction,  Contractor/
consultation                              thereafter monthly or  Municipalities
23



Impact                  Location              Means of              Parameters         Frequency of         Responsibility
Monitoring                                Monitoring
after complaint
Haul routes, worker's     Site inspection      Full restoration of  At the end of the   Contractor/
Rehabilitation of all  camps and all other areas /                    sites to initial state.  const-uction period  RTSD
temporarily used sites  sites that were temporarily
used during construction
Health and Safety      All construction sites and  Site inspection    Statistic reports.  Ongoing / monthly    Contractor
worker's camp
Public safety          Entire project road       Site inspection      Statistic reports.  Ongoing              Contractor/
Municipalities
Soil
Dumping of excess      All designated dumping    Inspection of dumping  Appropriate        Spot checks; ongoing  Contractor/
material and           sites. Refer to maps of   sites                regulations.
landscaping of disposal  dumping sites
sites
Soil erosion           Bridge construction sites  Ongoing site        Control of susceptible  Regular inspections  Contractor/
and selected locations of  inspection          areas
Tovuz bypass
Soil contamination     Contractor's yard and all  Site inspection     Lab control of       Ongoing / monthly   Contractor/
construction sites                             chemical content
Water
Water pollution by     Contractor's yard and all  Inspection of waste  Control of chemical  Spot checks        Contractor
chemicals              project road construction  disposal sites and work  content, conductivity,
sites                     sites                oil and grease level.
Storm water and        Entire project road       Site inspections     Control of possible  Ongoing             RTSD/
drainage system                                                       siltation and                            Local
pollution.                               authorities
Air
Pollution by emission  Applied to entire project  Ongoing site        Control on           Monthly             Contractor
road                      inspection           compliance with
24



Impact                  Location               Means of              Parameters          Frequency of         Responsibility
Monitoring                                Monitoring
environment, health
and safety regulations
Pollution by asphalt   Applied to entire project  Ongoing site         Control on           Monthly              Contractor
plant                  road. No plant within 500  inspection           compliance with
m of settlement                                 environment, health
and safety regulations
Noise
Noise and vibration    Worksites and borrow areas  70 dBA (day) at the  Control noise levels  Monthly            Contractor
work sites            at acceptable level
Consultation with the                     Ongoing
communities
Road operations        Neighbouring settlements  Noise measurements    Control noise levels  Every 5 years or after  RTSD/
(Duz Jirdahan and Jalilli)  Relevant standards:  at acceptable level  complaint          Local
55 dBA (day) /45 dBA                                           authorities
(night) for nearby
settlements
Dust
Dust                   Throughout project roads,  Site inspection      Monitoring of dust in  Ongoing / after    Contractor
access roads, construction                      atmosphere to keep it  complaint
sites, asphalt plants and                       at minimum level.
borrow sites
Landscape
Greening and           ROW width of 60 m plus     Site inspection      Appropriate          Ongoing / yearly     RTSD
landscaping            any areas to be cleared                         regulations.
Traffic &Road Safety
Road safety            Entire project road        Collection of accident  Statistic reports  Ongoing / yearly    RTSD/
data and site                                                  Traffic police
inspections;
Traffic Disruption
25



Impact                Location            Means of            Parameters        Frequency of       Responsibility
Monitoring                            Monitoring
Damage of local roads  All project road construction Site inspection  Roads condition  Ongoing / monthly /  Contractor
sites                                                        after complaint
III. Institutional Measures
Project Stage       Responsible Organisation            Activity
Detailed Design     RTSD                                Incorporate mitigation measures into detailed engineering design and
technical specifications; Provide TORs for capacity building TA in the
ESS
RTSD, MENR                           Review and approve proposed environmental mitigation and
monitoring measures
Investment Department                Allocate appropriate budget to undertake environ-mental monitoring
and capacity building for ESS;
Construction        Contractor (with support of his     Implement required environmental mitigation and monitoring
Environment, Health & Safety Manager)  measures
In the absence of a qualified district road  Supervise contractor's implementation of environmental measures on
maintenance engineer: ESS with the   a routine basis and enforce contractual requirements
guidance and support of the CSC
CSC                                  Audit construction phase through environmental inspections and
collection of monitoring data. Submit quarterly reports Provide hands-
on-training to ESS staff. Provide awareness / training to workers and
technology ?) transfer to the contractor;
ESS with the guidance and support of the  Ensure compliance with Government legal and WB requirements
CSC;                                 during construction, the EMP and LAP
District offices of MENR / MOH       Review potential complicated issues arising from the Project;
26



Project Stage      Responsible Organisation            Activity
Upon Project completion: prepare and submit final report.
ESS's CSC and ESS
Operation          ESS / District Maintenance Unit     Undertake routine environmental monitoring, prepare reports .
27



Appendix B: Minutes of Public Consultation Meetings



Matrix
Tovuz Bypass Project
Public Consultation Meetings
Impacts               Question                                        Answer                            Meeting
Date
General          1. Some residents warned that there may be a gas  1. Information was taken for consideration  12.28.2004
pipeline along the eastern end of the alternative
2. Will the old third alternative be somehow  2. According to the surveys done by the Project, the third  03.26.2005
used?                                      alternative will not be used.
3. Within two types of bridge design which one  3. Due to less excavation works volume of the 'high'  04.08.2005
would have less environmental impact and is  profile bridge design as compared to the 'low' profile,
considered as preferable?                 and appropriately low price of construction works, the
'high' profile bridge design was selected.
4. Who would be responsible for the       4. Local authorities would approve side location for 04.08.2005
accommodation of non-local workers and     workers camp location. The Contractor would prepare a
mitigation of environmental impacts of their stay? detailed plan for a workers camp, where measures on
minimization of adverse socio-economic effects would
be stipulated.
5. What is the procedure and guarantee that local  5. According to current practice approximately 50-70%  04.08.2005
population would be hired for construction  of the workforce would be local population. The
works?                                     Contractor would consider all local applicants.
6. What is the total budget for road construction  6. The total budget would be clarified during the detailed  04.08.2005
and how much time it would take?           design and is estimated to be between $10-12 million
USD. The construction period is planned to be 24 months
and to start at the beginning of the year 2006.
7. Who would be the members of the monitoring  7. All organizations that are involved in the process of  04.08.2005
group, and how often the monitoring would be  road construction, mitigation and state control, are
done?                                     included in the prepared Monitoring Plan. The Plan
determines concrete timing for each monitoring
procedure.
Water            1. Bridge construction may cause soil erosion and  1. The Environment Management Plan and Monitoring  04.08.2005



river pollution. Both road Alternatives    Plan are already prepared. During different phases of
presuppose trees demolition. Who would be  construction all involved organization will participate in
responsible for mitigation of these impacts?  their realization.
2. The main sources of potable water for Tovuz  2. Bridge construction works are recommended to be  04.08.2005
population are Tovuz Chay and artesian bores.  carried out during summer time, when the river has
Would the construction of the bridge pollute the  lowest water level.
river?
Landscape        1. Who is responsible for the planting of  1. The planting of greenery considered in the project,  03.26.2005
greenery?                                 should be carried out by a Contractor
2. What will be the height of the new road? What  2. The height of the new road depends on the Project  03.26.2005
will be the source of embankment construction  design and varies along the road. Embankment material
material?                                  will be delivered from appropriate borrow pits.
Traffic & Road   1. What is the width of the road corridor?  1. The corridor is 60 m wide and the alignment will be  02.25.2005
Safety                                                      marked after the approval of the consultant's
recommendation
2. Will there be any access roads connecting  2. Connection to the local roads will be through access  03.26.2005
overpasses to local roads?                 roads at the beginning and the end of the highway.
3. What are the arrangements for safety    3. The road will be constructed according to existing  03.26.2005
procedures, and are trade activities along the road  road standards and trade activities along the road should
side considered?                           be coordinated with authorities in charge.
4. Could you please determine location of  4. According to the topographic surveys, there are four  03.26.2005
planned 5 overpasses?                      crossings on the local roads. Construction of overpasses
at three crossings is already designed. There is no need to
construct an overpass at the fourth crossing, as it is close
to the intersection at the end of the highway.
5. During the 2 year construction period, the local 5. During the road construction temporary bypasses would  04.08.2005
population will face with transportation and  be built to facilitate normal traffic between settlements
pedestrians safety problems. Are any mitigation  and the town, as well as moving farm equipment and/or
measures considered?                       animals to fields and pastures.
Land             1. Can we plant and use our harvest this year?  1-7. The Government will decide after familiarizing with  02.25.2005
Acquisition/     2. What will be the land acquisition process?  the Consultant's recommendations.
Resettlement     3. What is the classification of the land



categories?
4. I want to definitely know whether my land will
be acquired or not.
5. Will our ideas on compensations be considered
or will the Government establish their own rates?
6. What is the basis for the determination of the
price for our land?
7. Will the price be a lump sum or a lifelong rent?
8. What is the basis to determine the land price  8. Compensations for land acquisition and caused  03.26.2005
and will the sowing time of this year affect the  damages will be paid according to the local legislation.
prices?                                    This year sowing will not affect the price of land.
9. When will the affected landowners be known?  9. The size and owners of the lands will be known during  03.26.2005
detailed design phase of the Project.
10. The prices indicated in the land passports  10. The prices will be determined according to the  03.26.2005
given to the citizens are very low. How will the  standards specified in the Land Code
prices be determined?
11. How will the resettlement of trade activities  11. According to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers  03.26.2005
along the road be conducted?               of the Azerbaijan Republic, the resettlement of trade
activities would be done in the right-of-way.
12. The construction of the bypass would cause  12. During the detailed design phase the list of people  04.08.2005
land acquisition from local population. What are  affected by land acquisition would be finally determined.
the guarantees that this process would be done  A special commission with participation of RTSD and
fairly and people would be compensated in time?  local authorities would negotiate the compensation with
each affected person individually.
13. Who would be responsible for the demolition  13. During the detailed design phase the final list of  04.08.2005
of existing constructions within the future bypass  objects to be demolished would be clarified. A special
ROW?                                       commission of RTSD and representatives of the local
authority would negotiate the compensation with each
affected person individually.



1)    Tovuz Bypass TA, Minutes of Public Information Meeting
Location:   Tovuz Town Hall theatre
Time:       28 December 2004, 14:00 - 14:50
Participants: Adil Gojaev, Director of PIU
Maharram Asadov, Engineer, Technical Division of RSTD
Kari Saari, TL, Finnroad
Sadiq Mutallimov, DTL Finnroad
62 residents of Tovuz and neighboring villages (including five women),
see below the list of participants
An invitation to the meeting was posted on page 6 of Respublica newspaper on 25
December.
The attendants were given a handout containing a brief introduction to the bypass plan
and a form on which the attendants can express their opinions and concern.
A powerpoint presentation was prepared for the meeting but it could not be shown due to
lack of electricity in the meeting room.
The director of the PIU of the Baku-Tbilisi road rehabilitation projects, Adil Gojaev
opened the meeting and explained briefly the Governments plans to rehabilitate the entire
road and the need to build a bypass around Tovruz.
The Deputy Team Leader of the TA, Sadiq Mutallimov gave detailed background of the
bypass and explained the Consultant's approach and work schedule.
The attendants were allowed to ask questions during the presentations. A lively
discussion on the benefits of the presented alternatives ensued. Nobody objected the plan
to build the bypass. Some residents warned that there may be a gas pipeline along the
eastern end of the alternative 1.
Nobody left any written comments on the bypass.
The participants were encouraged to leave their comments after the meeting at the Tovuz
Road maintenance District office or give them to the Environmental and Social
Specialists at the end of January when they will be doing their field work.
The meeting ended at 14:50.



List of Participants
1. Haqverdiyev Azad       Jalilli village
2. Huseynov Mahir         Jalilli village
3. Farzaliyev Zardabi      Jalilli village
4. Hasanov Elchin         Jalilli village
5. Hasanova Sevil         Jalilli village
6. Mammadov Ilham          Jalilli village
7. Tiverdiyev Mahammad     Duz-Jirdahan village
8. Yusubov Israfil
9. Yusubov Kamil
10. Asadov Shamil
11. Rustamov Jabir        Qarakhanli village
12. Haciyev Azer          Bozalqanli village
13. Sultanov Seyhun
14. Nasirov Nizam
15. Qahramanov Vasil
16. Mammadov Rasim
17. Orujov Sahib          Bozalqanli village
18. Suleymanov Sabir       Bozalqanli village
19. Mammadov Yagub        Bozalqanli village
20. Mammadov Telman        Bozalqanli village
21. Aslanova Qulabet       Bozalqanli village
22. Rzayev Qurban          Jilovdarli village
23. Maharramov Ilgar      Jilovdarli village
24. Yusifov Badraddin      Jilovdarli village
25. Rzayev Muzaffar        Qadirli village
26. Aliyev Qara            Qadirli village
27. Ibrahimov Elqam        Tovuz town
28. Tanriverdiyev Zahid    Bozalqanli village
29. Qasimov Eldar          Duz-Jirdahan village
30. Ismayilov Huseyn       Abulbeyli village
31. Musayev Mustafa        Duz-Jirdahan village
32. Abbasov Eldar               Abulbeyli village
33. Isayev Hafiz           Mulkulu village
34. Aliyev Mazahir
28 others who left the meeting without signing the list.



2)     'Tovuz Bypass TA, Minutes of Public Information Meeting
Location:   Tovuz Town Hall Theatre
Time:       25 February 2005, 12.30 - 13.45
Participants: Adil Gojaev, Director of PIU
Kari Saari, TL, Finnroad
Sadiq Mutallimov, DTL Finnroad
Melanie Poerschmann, Environmental Expert
Tuomas Peltonen, Road Engineer, CAD expert
Aida Huseynova, Interpreter
and about 80 residents of Tovuz and neighboring villages (including three
women), out of which only 69 registered their names, see below the list of
participants..
The invitation to that meeting had been posted on Respublica newspaper on 23 February
2005. The meeting was opened by Mr. Jabir Rustamov, the head of Tovuz Town
architectural department. At the beginning a 1:25.000 map showing the road alternatives
under study and handouts with the slides of the power point presentation on the EA were
distributed.
The Deputy Team Leader of the TA, Sadiq Mutallimov introduced the preferred
alternative selected by the Consultant.
Following to this, a power-point presentation on the EA, its objective and results was
made by Ms. Melanie Poerschmann. Mr. Tuomas Peltonen then showed plans and a
computer-animated visualization of the alternative bridge designs and the preferred
solution alternative 2 in the combination with a 'high bridge.'
The attendants were then invited to ask questions and give their opinions. Specific
comments or protests against the proposed solution, however, were not obtained.
Questions were asked on the following issues:
* What is the width of the corridor?
* What will be the land acquisition process?
* Can we plant and use our harvest this year?
* What is the classification of the land categories?
* I want to definitely know whether my land will be acquired or not.
* Will our ideas on compensations be considered or will the Government establish
their own rates?
* What is the basis for the determination of the price for our land?
* Will the price be a lump sum or a lifelong rent?
The answer to the question on road corridor was: the corridor is 60 m wide and the
alignment will be marked after the approval of the consultant's recommendation, and to
the other questions: the Government will decide after familiarizing with the consultant's
recommendations. No written comments or questions were submitted by the attendants of
the meeting.



List of Participants
1. Zakir Quliyev          Khatinli village, unemployed
2. Amrah Amrahov           Khatinli village, pensioner
3. Bakhtiyar Mehdiyev      Bozalqanli village, pensioner
4. Amir Aliyev             Bozalqanli village pensioner
5. Rahim Piriyev           Khatinli village, driver
6. Musa Qambarli           Qarakhanli village, teacher
7. Jabrail Musayev         Qarakhanli village, teacher
8. Nazim Musayev           Qarakhanli village, workman
9. Fazil Gulmammadov       Khatinli village, workman
1O. Nabi Najafov          Qarakhanli village, workman
11. Kamala Mammadova      Qarakhanli village, teacher
12. Flora Ismayilova      Khatinli village, medical nurse
13. Sakina Nabiyeva       Qarakhanli village, housewife
14. Asgar Hasanov         Bozalqanli village, bee-keeper
15. Shamil Tanriverdiyev  Bozalqanli village, pensioner
16. Shamsad Maqarramov    Bozalqanli village, pensioner
17. Tanriverdi Mammadov   Bozalqanli village, civil engineer
18. Nariman Mammadov      Bozalqanli village, engineer
19. Vakil Adilov          Khatinli village, economist engineer
20. Rovshan Tanriverdiyev  Bozalqanli village, unemployed
21. Sultan Qadirov         Bozalqanli village, plougher
22. Mahar Maharramov       Bozalqanli village, unemployed
23. Hasan Mammadov         Bozalqanli village, driver
24. Yunis Musayev          Bozalqanli village, unemployed
25. Leysan Museyibov       Khatinli village, teacher
26. Shohrat Samadov        Khatinli village, pupil
27. Novruz Allahverdiyev   Khatinli village, unemployed
28. Mustafa Mustafayev     Qarakhanli village, unemployed
29. Musa Bayramov          Qarakhanli village, unemployed
30. Kamil Aliyev           Qarakhanli village, pupil
31. Novruz Huseynov        Khatinli village, unemployed
32. Vahid Piriyev          Khatinli village, unemployed
33. Mehman Aliyev          Khatinli village, unemployed
34. Aladdin Huseynov       Khatinli village, unemployed
35. Shahin Sadiqov         Khatinli village, doctor
36. Telman Huseynquliyev   Khatinli village, unemployed
37. Murad Aliyev           Khatinli village, unemployed
38. Ziya Hasanov           Khatinli village, oilman
39. Ali Mammadov           Ashagi Qushchu village, cashier
40. Zakir Karimov          Ashagi Qushchu village, engineer
41. Qarib Akbarov          Ashagi Qushchu village, doctor
42. Arif Qahramanov        Qarakhanli village, unemployed



43. Ismayil Ahmadov        Bozalqanli village, engineer
44. Elman Huseynquliyev    Khatinli village, unemployed
45. Rais Hasanov           Khatinli village, tractor driver
46. Sabir Musayev          Khatinli village, machine-operator
47. Hasan Sadiqov          Khatinli village, pensioner
48. Hasan Abdiyev          Khatinli village, pensioner
49. Eltay Huseynov         Qarakhanli village, unemployed
50. Xaliq Qahramanov       Qarakhanli village, unemployed
51. Misir Aliyev           Qarakhanli village, unemployed
52. Firdovsi Ismayilov     Qarakhanli village, unemployed
53. Mehman Aliyev          Bozalqanli village, unemployed
54. Shahin Abbasquliyev    Bozalqanli village, unemployed
55. Qurban Qurbanov        Bozalqanli village, unemployed
56. Leyla Hajiyeva         Bozalqanl village, unemployed
57. Isa Hajiyev            Bozalqanli village, unemployed
58. Toviq Dunyamaliyev     Qarakhanli village, unemployed
59. Vazir Adilov           Khatinli village, unemployed
60. Huseyn Mammadov        Qarakhanli village, unemployed
61. Akif Dunyamaliyev      Qarakhanli village, unemployed
62. Vasif Huseynov         Qarakhanli village, unemployed
63. Oqtay Ahmadov          Qarakhanli village, teacher
64. Kochari Aliyev         Bozalqanli village, teacher
65. Panah Qasimov          Abubayli village, accountant
66. Sadif Huseynov         Bozalqanli village, unemployed
67. Hasan Aliyev           Bozalqanli village, welder
68. Jabir Rustamov         Representative of the District Executive Authority
69. Nizami Nasirov         Representative of the District Executive Authority



3)                            Minutes
Public Consultation Meeting on the TOVUZ BYPASS
Project
Location: Tovuz town City Hall
Date: March 26, 2005
Time: 11:00- 13:00
Agenda:
1. Introduction--General information on the Tovuz bypass Project (Jabir Rustamov,
Deputy Head of the Architecture and Construction Department of Tovuz District
Executive Power
2. Presentation of Environmental and Socioeconomic Assessment Report and Land
Acquisition Plan (S.Mutallimov, Deputy Team Leader of Finnroad Company)
3. Discussion
Parteipants:
Tovuz Executive Power:         Nizami Nasirov, Head of Architecture and
Construction Department
Jabir Rustamov, Deputy Head of Architecture and
Construction Department
Finnroad Company:             Kari Saari, Project Team Leader
Sadiq Mutallimov, Deputy Team Leader
Ministry of Environment:       Guliyev Rafayel, Head of #2 Gazakh Regional
Branch
NGOs                           Ramiz Mustafayev, Chairman of Tovuz Society of
Nature Protection
Zakir Ibragimov, Environmental Expert, Ganja
Business Association
Independent Reviewer          Bakhtiyar Karimov,
Tovuz TV                      Nasimi Tovuzlu, Editor
Tovuz Residents:               78 residents of Tovuz and neighboring villages
participated in the Meeting. (See whole list of
participants below)
1) Introduction--General information on the TOVUZ BYPASS project.
Mr. J. Rustamov opened the meeting. He noted that the World Bank gave credit to the
Azerbaijan Government to construct a bypass around Tovuz town. Construction of Tovuz
bypass will have a positive impact on the development of national and local economy.



The construction of a bypass for Tovuz will relieve its inhabitants from transit traffic,
which is the major part of the present traffic load and will improve road safety, reduce
nuisance through noise, fumes and dust.
Mr. J. Rustamov informed participants that the aim of this Meeting is to inform the public
about the results of the Environment, Socioeconomic Assessment and Land Acquisition
Plan. Also the target is to make the objectives, goals, and benefits of the proposed
project, clear and transparent to the public at large.
2) Presentation of Environmental and Socioeconomic Assessment Report and Land
Acquisition Plan
Mr. S. Mutallimov made a PowerPoint presentation of the Environmental and
Socioeconomic Assessment Report and Land Acquisition Plan, prepared by the Finnroad
Company in compliance with environmental legislation and regulations of the Azerbaijan
Republic and in compliance with the operational policies of the World Bank.
At the recommendations of an Independent Reviewer, a brief Project information was
published in the local newspaper "TOVUZ", and distributed among the affected
population and meeting participants. As a result, the participants of the meeting got
familiar with the content of the prepared Report prior the public consultation meeting.
3) Discussion
1. Zakir Ibragimov, Environmental Expert, Ganja Business Association
Question:   Who is responsible for the planting of greenery?
Answer:     The planting of greenery considered in the project, should be carried out
by a Contractor.
2. Israyil Ibrakhimov, Land owner, Gakhramanli village
Question:   Could you please determine location of planned 5 overpasses?
Answer:     According to the topographic surveys, there are four crossings on the local
roads. Construction of overpasses at three crossings is already designed.
There is no need to construct an overpass at the fourth crossing, as it is
close to the intersection at the end of the highway.
3. Jabir Rustamov, Deputy Head of Architecture and Construction Department
Question:   Will there be any access roads connecting overpasses to local roads?
Answer:     Connection to the local roads will be through access roads at the beginning
and the end of the highway.
4. Musayev Tofik, Landowner, Bozalganli village
Question:   What is the basis to determine the land price and will the sowing time of
this year affect the prices?



Answer:     Compensations for land acquisition and caused damages will be paid
according to the local legislation. This year sowing will not affect the
price of land.
5. Huseynov Alatdin, Landowner, Khatinly village
Question:   What are the arrangements for safety procedures, and are trade activities
along the road side considered?
Answer:     The road will be constructed according to existing road standards and
trade activities along the road should be coordinated with authorities in
charge.
6. Sadikhov Hasan, Land owner, Khatinli village
Question:   When will the affected landowners be known?
Answer:     The size and owners of the lands will be known during detailed design
phase of the Project.
7. Maharramov Mazakhir, Landowner, Bozalganly village
Question:   What will be the height of the new road? What will be the source of
embankment construction material?
Answer:     The height of the new road depends on the Project design and varies along
the road. Embankment material will be delivered from appropriate borrow
pits.
8. Samedov Shokhret, Landowner, Khatinli village
Question:   The prices indicated in the land passports given to the citizens are very
low. How will the prices be determined?
Answer:     The prices will be determined according to the standards specified in the
Land Code.
9. Hajiyev Azer, Executive Power Representative, Bozalganli village
Question:   Will the old third alternative be somehow used?
Answer:     According to the surveys done by the Project, the third alternative will not
be used.
10. Gakhramanov Vasil, Duz-Jirdakhanli Municipality
Question:   How will the resettlement of trade activities along the road be conducted?
Answer:     According to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Azerbaijan
Republic, the resettlement of trade activities would be done in the right-of-
way.



The list of participants
Public Consultation, March 26, Tovuz
NN              Category                     Name                    Position               Phone
Tovuz Executive Authority
1   Architecture and Construction    Nizami Nasirov        Head of Department             520 5679
Department
2                                    Jabir Rustamov        Senior Expert                  395 5447
3    Abulbayli Branch                Ibrahimov Ilgam       Representative                 330 8438
4    Ashagi Gushchu Branch           Sadikhov Aslan        Representative                 351 5505
5    Bozalganly Branch               Hajiyev Azer          Representative                 613 7688
6    Dondar Gushchu Branch           Veliyev Zakhid        Representative                 391 5426
7    Jamilli- Duz Jirdakhan Branch   Mammadov Rasim        Representative               055 751 7276
8    Qadirly- Jilovdarli Branch      Rzayev Gurban         Representative                 354 6557
9    Qarakhanly Branch              lbrahimov Israyil      Representative                 366 0797
10   Khatinly Branch                 Mammadov Nuretdin      Representative                390 7766
Municipalities
11   Abulbayli                       Ismayilov Adalet       Head                          334 5933
12   Ashagi Gushscu                  Tagiyev Bakhadur       Head
13   Bozalganly                      Tarverdiyev Zakhid     Head                          616 4777
14   Dondar Gushchu                  Mirzoyev Vekil         Head
15   Jamilli-Duz Jirdakhan           Gakhramanov Vasil      Head                          390 7750
16   Qadirly                         Aydiyev Yashar         Head
17   Jilovdarly                      Yusifov Samandar       Head
18   Qarakhanly                      Babayev Azer           Head                          389 7936
19   Khatinly                        Aleskerov Taptiq       Head                          363 2636
Organizations
20   Contractor- Finnroad            Karri Saari            Team Leader
21                                   Sadiq Mutallimov       Deputy Team Leader             223 0552
22                                                          Head of #2 Gazakh Regional     310 5189
Ministry of Environment         Guliyev Rafayel        Branch
23   NGO-Ganja Business Assosiation  Zakir ibragimov        Environmental Expert           615 3254
24   NGO-Society of Nature Protection  Ramiz Mustafayev     Chairman
25   Tovuz TV                        Nasimi Tovuzlu         Head
26                                   Bakhtiyar Karimov      Independent Reviewer
Land Owners
27           AbulbaylyVillage        Gasimov Panakh                   Owner
28                                   Guliyev Gadim
29          Bozalganly Village       Mammadov Alikhan                  Owner
30                                   Hasanov Asker
31                                   Pirverdiyev Kamil
32                                   Maherramov Mahir
33                                   Gadirov Logman
34                                   Gadirov Sultan



35                                    Huseynov Sadif
36                                    Aliyev Hasan
37                                    Mammadov Zimirkhan
38                                    Mekhtiyev Taptiq
39                                    Maharramov Mazakhir
40                                    Mammadov Fizuli                                         5 34 93
41                                    Aliyev Etibar
42                                    Aliyev Amir
43                                    Musaye Yunis
44                                    Mammadov Hasan
45                                    Hajiyev Musa
46                                    Hajiyev isa
47                                    Hajiyeva Leyla
48                                    Aliyev Kochary
49                                    Mammadov Tanriverdy                                     5 64 59
50                                    Abbasov Elshad
51                                    Tarverdiyev Rovshern
52                                    Huseynov Namiq
53                                    Aliyev Huseyn
54                                    Mammadova Zamira
55                                    Gadirov Logman
56                                    Gadirov Sultan
57                                    Gurbanov Gurban
58                                    Aliyev Mekhman
59                                    Abbasguliyev Shahin
60                                    Aliyev Aladdin
61                                    Ganbarly Musa
62                                    Mammadaov Makhmud                                      686 2136
63                                    Abbasov Elshad
64                                    Mekhtiyev Bakhtiyar
65         Duz-Jirdakhan Village      Abbasob Elman                     Owner
66            Khatinly Village        Adilov Vekil                      Owner                317 1693
67                                    Aliyeva Rena
68                                    Sadigov Hasan
69                                    Mammadova Flora
70                                    Allakhverdiyev Novruz
71                                    Jafarguliyev Asef
72                                    Adilov Vekil
73                                    Piriyev Vakhid
74                                    Gulmammadov Nuretdin
75                                    Gulmammadov Fazil
76                                    Huseynguliyev Telman
77                                    Amrakhov Amrakh
78                                    Museyibova Leysan
79                                    Abdiyev Hasan
80                                    Sadigov Shahin                                         519 6072
81                                    Hasanov Ziya
82                                    Huseynguliyev Elman
__82                                    Aliyev Murad



84  |                                 Piriyev Rakhim
85                                    Huseynov Alatdin
86                                    Samedov Shokhret
87          Qarakhanly Village        Dunyamaliyev Tofig                Owner
88                                    Dunyamaliyev Arif
89                                    Dunyamaliyeva Arzu
90                                    Dunyamaliyev Akif
91                                    Dunyamaliyev Isa
92                                    Najafov Mukhtar
93                                    Najafov Muzaffar
94                                    Gakhramanov Arif
95                                    Namazov Mekhman
96                                    Huseynov Vagif
97                                    Gakhramanov Khalig
98                                    Nasirov Yashar
99                                    Suleymanov Firuddin
100                                    Nabiyev Sakhib                                        387 7598
101                                    Musayev Nazim
102                                    Mustafayev Mustafa
103                                    Musayev Jebrayil
104                                    Huseynova Samira       _



Minutes
Public Consultation Meeting on TOVUZ BYPASS
Project
Location: Baku city, Aarhus Public Information Center
Date: April 8, 2005
Time: 11:00- 13:00
Agenda:
1. Introduction-General information on the Tovuz bypass Project (Zaur Askerov,
Manager of Aarhus Public Information Center)
2. Presentation of Environmental and Socioeconomic Assessment Report and Land
Acquisition Plan (S.Mutallimov, Deputy Team Leader of Finnroad Ltd.
Company)
3. Discussion
Partcipants:
Finnroad Company:             Sadiq Mutallimov, Project Deputy Team Leader
NGOs:
Ecolex                         Samir Isayev- Ecolex, Chairman
ETSI TU                        Yusubov Yashar, Chairman
Medjidova Bakhar
Karimov Rashad
Abuzarli Abdulla
Ornithology Society            Nigar Agayeva, Expert
Electro-Is                     Rafiq Ildarov, Chairman
Telman Yusifov
Aarhus Center                  Zakir Askerov, Manager
Huseynov Khayal
Independent Reviewer          Bakhtiyar Karimov
An invitation for public participation and project information about the Meeting was
published in the republican newspaper "Ayna-Zerkalo" prior to the meeting on April 6,
2005.
Additionally, an invitation and detailed information on prepared report was e-mailed to
more than 60 local environmental NGOs.
1) Introduction--General information on the TOVUZ BYPASS project.
Mr. Z.Askerov opened the meeting. He noted that according to the World Bank
disclosure policy, the results of the Environment Assessment prepared by this project



should be presented to the project-affected groups and local non-governmental
organizations.
In compliance with this policy, the aim of this Meeting is to inform local non-
governmental organizations about the results of the Environmental and Socioeconomic
Assessment, and the Land Acquisition Plan. Also, the target is to make the objectives,
goals, and benefits of the proposed project, clear and transparent to the public at large.
2) Presentation of Environmental and Socioeconomic Assessment Report and Land
Acquisition Plan
Mr. S. Mutallimov made a PowerPoint presentation of the Environmental and
Socioeconomic Assessment Report and the Land Acquisition Plan, prepared by the
Finnroad Ltd. Company in accordance with environmental legislation and regulations of
the Azerbaijan Republic, and in compliance with the operational policies of the World
Bank.
According to recommendations of an Independent Reviewer, a brief Project information
was disseminated via e-mail to more than 60 local NGOs invited to participate at the
meeting. As a result, the core group of local NGOs got familiar with the content of the
prepared Report prior to the public consultation meeting.
3) Discussion
1. Samir Isayev- Chairman, Ecolex,
Question:   Within two types of bridge design which one would have less
environmental impact and is considered as preferable?
Answer:     Due to less excavation works volume of the 'high' profile bridge design as
compared to the 'low' profile, and appropriately low price of construction
works, the 'high' profile bridge design was selected.
2. Yusubov Yashar, Chairman, ETSI TU
Question:   The construction of the bypass would cause land acquisition from local
population. What are the guarantees that this process would be done fairly
and people would be compensated in time?
Answer:     During the detailed design phase the list of people affected by land
acquisition would be finally determined. A special commission with
participation of RTSD and local authorities would negotiate the
compensation with each affected person individually.
3. Nigar Agayeva, Expert, Ornithology Society
Question:   Bridge construction may cause soil erosion and river pollution. Both road
Alternatives propose trees demolition. Who would be responsible for
mitigation of these impacts?



Answer:     The Environment Management Plan and Monitoring Plan are already
prepared. During different phases of construction all involved organization
will participate in their realization.
4. Zakir Askerov, Manager, Aarhus Center
Question:   Who would be responsible for the accommodation of non-local workers
and mitigation of environmental impacts of their stay?
Answer:     Local authorities would approve side location for workers camp location.
The Contractor would prepare a detailed plan for a workers camp, where
measures on minimization of adverse socio-economic effects would be
stipulated.
5. Rafiq Ildarov, Chairman, Electro-Is
Question:   What is the procedure and guarantee that local population would be hired
for construction works?
Answer:     According to current practice approximately 50-70% of the construction
workforce would be local population. The Contractor would consider all
local applicants.
6. Telman Yusifov, expert, Electro-is
Question:   What is the total budget for road construction and how much time it would
take?
Answer:     The total budget would be clarified during the detailed design and is
estimated to be between $10-12 million USD. The construction period is
planned to be 24 months and to start at the beginning of the year 2006.
7. Medjidova Bakhar, Member ETSI TU
Question:    Who would be the members of the monitoring group, and how often the
monitoring would be done?
Answer:     All organizations that are involved in the process of road construction,
mitigation and state control, are included in the prepared Monitoring Plan.
The Plan determines concrete timing for each monitoring procedure.
8. Abuzarli Abdulla, Member ETSI TU
Question:   The main sources of potable water for Tovuz population are Tovuz Chay
and artesian bores. Would the construction of the bridge pollute the river?
Answer:     Bridge construction works are recommended to be carried out during
summer time, when the river has lowest water level.



9. Karimov Rashad, Member ETSI TU
Question:    During the 2 year construction period, the local population will face with
transportation and pedestrians safety problems. Are any mitigation
measures considered?
Answer:      During the road construction temporary bypasses would be built to facilitate
normal traffic between settlements and the town, as well as moving farm
equipment and/or animals to fields and pastures.
10. Huseynov Khayal, Member Aarhus Center
Question:    Who would be responsible for the demolition of existing constructions
within the future bypass?
Answer:      During the detailed design phase the final list of objects to be demolished
would be clarified. A special commission of RTSD and representatives of
the local authority would negotiate the compensation with each affected
person individually.



Appendix C: Presentation for Public Consultation Meetings



Environmental Impact                U
Assessment
in compliance with
national requirements / WB requirements
1. Public           111. Environmental
Participation      Management Programme
- detailed design;
11. Assessment of      - construction;
Alternatives          - operation.
(alignment & design)
IV. Information Disclosure
1



1. Public Participation
* to provide information to the affected residents and
land owners about
- the proposed project and
- implementation mechanisms;
* to organize fruitful dialogue between civil society and
the central executive authorities;
* to exchange opinions about the proposed measures;
* to improve the project by considering concerns
of the public in the further planning process.
2



0
11. Assessment of Alternatives
Long-term / permanent impacts on the
- human environment;
- on the physical / natural environment.
Recommendation of a
,preferred alignment'
3



Potential Impacts on the Human *
Environment
Permanent Impacts            Temporary Impacts
* Loss of private property  . Nuisance through noise, dust and
(houses, structures,      fumes, material transport on
garden etc.);            temporary and local roads and
* Land aquisition;          borrow pit operation;
* Noise from traffic;     * Nuisance through worker's camps;
* Aesthetics, landscape;  . Impediment of road safety;
* Road safety;            * Impairment of local traffic and
* Excess soil dumping;      access; temporary detours;
* Loss of trees;
* Impairment of access.                              4



Potential impacts on the physical
I natural environment
* Loss of agricultural land with only little value as a habitat
of rare or endangered species of animals or plants;
* Soil- and groundwater pollution
* Water pollution during bridge construction;
* Requirement to dump large volumes of excess soil may
cause erosion, siltation of the river;
* Alternative 1: loss of planted forest and impairment on
ecological functions of remaining stands;
* Alternative 2: no further environmental impacts.
5



,Preferred Solution'
Alternative 2
&
,high bridge'
over the Tovuz Chay
6



111. Environmental Mitigation Measures
in Detailed Design:
- Erosion control;
* Provision of animal crossings;
* Provision of appropriate access between residential and.
agricultural areas;
* Tree planting between Duz-Jirdahan and Jalilli;
* Identification of appropriate sites for the dumping of excess soil
in consultation with the MENR;
* Elaboration of specifications for environmental safeguard
measures during construction
7



Ill. Environmental
Management Programme
- construction phase -
* Definition of contractor's responsibilities for impact
avoidance / mitigation (water, soil, air, noise, dust
management, material storage and transport,
management of worker's / construction camp etc.)
* Monitoring programme to assure compliance of
operations with national environmental regulations I
quality standards
-RTSD/EHSU
- District offices of the MENR
- District offices of the MOH
8



@', IV. Information Disclosure
* Brochure in Azeri, explaining the people's entitlements
and the procedures for obtaining compensation for land
acquisition, temporary disturbances, loss of trees, crops
and land for construction sites and recording grievances;
* Setting up of a formal grievance redress committee with a
representation from the affected people.
* Draft EA report will be made available to project-affected
groups and local NGOs at a public place;
* WB will also make the EA available to the public
(e.g. internet).
9



Appendix D: Pictures from the Study Area
Picture I
Access road to borrow pit 1 in the
vicinity of the Esrik Chay;
_ |   r  -J _]   View direction south.
Picture 2
Borrow pit no 1 Current exploitation under the
Shemkir - Gazakh Rehabilitation Project
~: Picture 3
* Area in the first common section of corridors I
and 2 between M 1 and irrigation channel;
View in direction north.



Picture 4
-.   111 -Common section of alternatives 1 and 2 in the east of the
.ss.~ fflC- --sq . Q  -  .   Tovuz Chay, where an irrigation channel is crossed;
_-  g  ff    View in direction west
View in direction northwest
Picture 6
Common section of alternatives 1 and 2 approaching
-.   the proposed bridge site on the Tovuz Chay;
approximate direction of alignment after the
river crossing in direction north-west
-~~~~~~~~~. .5'_-
. ~ ~ .         .    ..



Picture 7
Riverbed of the Tovuz Chay, downstream of planned
bridge site; View in direction north
iz~~~~~~~~T
-~~~V
L ~ ~ ~  ~           .   .



Picture 8
Waste dumping in the riverbed of the Tovuz Chay -
approximate area of the proposed new bridge site.
Picture 9
Common section of alternatives 1 and 2;
proposed alignment in the west of the
Tovuz Chay;
View in direction south-east.
Picture 10
Area where alternatives 1 and 2
split into two separate corridors.
View in direction north-west.
-E; .LBackground left: Dyz Jirdahan
Picture 1 1
Orchard in the corridor of
alternative 1. View in direction north-west.
U



Picture 12
Jalilli, houses in the immediate vicinity of the
proposed alignment alternative 1.
View in direction east.
'.-  i -  }          s        ~~~~~Picture 13
-I. 3 -  ^     ^        Stands of planted Pine in the area for the
proposed roundabout/ interchange flyover on
alternative 2.
View in direction west
,       ~~Picture 14
Tovuz, existing M 1 in the area for the proposed
roundabout / inter-change flyover on alternative 2.
View in direction south-east (Duz Jirdahan)
F~~~~~~-A-
. ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   - - - - . 






