Page  1
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC 
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
 
ROAD TRANSPORT SERVICE DEPARTMENT
 
IDA Credit 3517 
–
AZ 
TOVUZ BYPASS 
 
DRAFT 
LAND ACQUISITION  
PLAN 
 
September 9
th
 2006 
RP499
Page  2
2
CONTENTS 
 
1. INTRODUCTION.......................................................................................................................2 
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION..........................................................................................................3 
3. SCOPE OF LAND ACQUISITION.............................................................................................3 
4. AVOIDANCE OR REDUCTION OF DISPLACEMENT ...........................................................5 
4.1. Bypass alternatives ..........................................................................................................5 
4.2. Preliminary impacts of the new road................................................................................5 
5. POLICY, LEGAL AND FRAMEWORK....................................................................................6 
6. IDENTIFICATION OF PROJECT AFFECTED PEOPLE (PAP)................................................8 
7. CONSULTATION AND PARTICIPATION...............................................................................9 
8. THE LAND ACQUISITION MECHANISM
..............................................................................9 
9. COORDINATION OF CIVIL WORKS ....................................................................................10 
10. CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS WITH PARTNER INSTITUTES ..............................10 
11. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY, IMPLEMENTATION SKILLS AND TRAINING...............11 
12. MONITORING.......................................................................................................................11 
13. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES................................................................................................12 
14. TRANSPARENCY OF PROCESS..........................................................................................12 
15. COMPENSATION POLICY, BUDGET AND FUNDING......................................................13 
15.1. Compensation policy....................................................................................................13 
15.2. Budget and funding......................................................................................................13 
16. CONTINGENCIES AND FLEXIBILITY ...............................................................................14 
17. ACCEPTANCE AND COMMITMENT..................................................................................14 
 
LIST OF TABLES 
 
Table 1: Scope of land acquisition  
 
Table 2:
 
Number of households affected 
 
Table 3:
 
Overview of the Existing National Regulatory Framework Related to Social Aspects in the 
Road Sector  
 
Table 4: Land Acquisition Budget Estimate 
 
Table 5: Entitlement matrix 
 
Annex 1:  
 
Table of inventory and assessment of houses, communication and other structures to go under the 
construction of Tovuz bypass  
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Page  3
3
The Government of Azerbaijan has received a credit from the International Development Association (IDA) 
and wishes to apply part of the funds for the construction of a bypass around the city of Tovuz.  
 
According to the World Bank safeguard policies and procedures, OP/BP. 4.12, loss of land and/or livelihood 
that may result from projects financed under the Bank project must be adequately compensated. The OP/BP. 
4.12 stipulates that the Land Acquisition Plan (LAP) or Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), as appropriate, be 
prepared that sets out policies and procedures that will be applied for the provision of compensation.   
 
Preparation of the LAP is the responsibility of the Borrower.  The Azeri government employed the service of 
the Finnroad Ltd. Company that assessed relevant Azeri laws and procedures, land ownership and local 
socioeconomic conditions in the project areas.  The affected households and local authorities were consulted 
to explore their perceptions and obtain local knowledge.  Since the preliminary social screening found out 
that no physical relocation of households were expected but that private land would be acquired as a result of 
the Project, Land Acquisition Plan was developed as per OP/BP 4.12.  
 
This Land Acquisition Plan (LAP) has been prepared as part of the detailed road design in accordance with 
the legislation of Azerbaijan and the Bank Policy concerning land acquisition. 
 
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
 
The Tovuz bypass is a section of the existing east-west corridor between Baku and Tbilisi. The technical 
assistance document for Tovuz bypass, environmental and socio-economic assessment, included a 
Resettlement and Land Acquisition Plan. 
The Tovuz bypass alignment is approximately 10,5 km long. The proposed bypass road will have two lanes 
now (1
st
 phase), but will be widened in the future to a 4-lane-road (2
nd
 phase).  The land acquisition in 
question will be done for both the 1
st
 and 2
nd
 phase. 
 
3. SCOPE OF LAND ACQUISITION 
 
According to the 
Azerbaijan’s legislation the road reserve that will be taken is 60 meter wide for the main 
road (bypass) and 25 meters for local roads.  
 
The physical construction works for the 1st phase will require additional land acquisition outside of the 
designated 60 and 25 meter wide road reserve at interchange areas and for excavations and embankments. 
These areas are included in the total sum of land required for the road.  
 
The road is situated in the area of 7 settlements. The settlements are Duz-Jirdahan, Bozalgalni, Abulbeyli, 
GaraGanli, Khatinli, Dondar Gushchu and Ashagi Hushchu. 
 
It is anticipated that the project will impact about 
580.558 
m
2
(approx. 58 ha) that will be required 
permanently (private land 
430.824 
m
2
and municipality land 
134.590
 m
2
).  See table 1 below. 
 
Table 1: Scope of land acquisition for the Tovuz bypass project 
 
Settlement
/VIL
Permanent loss of land, m2 
Page  4
4
LAGE 
Residential Agricultural 
Public/ 
municipality  
Total 
1
Albulbeyli 
village 
0
63777 16511 80288 
2
Ashagi Gushchu 
village 
0
154498 46582  201080 
3
Bozalganli 
village 
0
55900 42933 98833 
4
Duz-Jirdahan 
village 
0
103258 0 
103258 
5
Dondar Gushu 
village 
0
0
21600 21600 
6
Qarakhanli 
village 
0
35859 2158  38017 
7
Xatinli village 
0 
32676 
4806 
37482 
Total 0  430824 134590 580558 
The land required for the road is mainly agricultural land/garden owned by private farmers or public land 
owned by municipalities.  
 
The private landholdings are mostly small and narrow strips. On the other hand there are farmers that own 
more than one piece of land. 
 
Private owned properties that are affected are precisely 399 in 6 villages. In the seventh village the land 
required for the road is owned by the municipality. 
 
Table 2: Number of households affected 
 
Settlement/VILLAGE NUMBER 
OF 
PRIVATE 
HOUSEHOLDS 
1
Albulbeyli village 
73 
2
Ashagi Gushchu village 
89 
3
Bozalganli village 
39 
4
Duz-Jirdahan village 
82 
5
Dondar Gushu village 
0 
6
Qarakhanli village 
58 
7
Xatinli village 
58 
Total 399 
There are also areas in the road reserve that are not included in the above mentioned areas. These areas are 
parts of the existing road in the beginning and the end of the bypass, river bed, road crossing with 3 local 
roads and gas line area. The approximated size is about 70 000 m2. The above mentioned existing road is 
controlled by the state (RTSD) and does not need expropriation measures. The river bed does not need 
expropriation measures. The gas line area will need an agreement with the gas line organisation.  
 
Page  5
5
4. AVOIDANCE OR REDUCTION OF DISPLACEMENT
 
4.1. Bypass alternatives 
 
The existing road through Tovuz can not be widened or upgraded to the planned future standard design for 
the M 1 and as a result
 the ‘without-project scenario’ cannot be recommended for consideration either. The 
existing road trough Tovuz would have had major negative impact for the town, so the impacts to the local 
inhabitants will be minimised by the bypass alignment.  
 
In the earlier phases of the project there was compared and assessed two alternative corridors for a northern 
detour of Tovuz town. Both alternatives begin a few hundred meters to the west of the Tovuz Chay river 
bridge of the M1 and have a common corridor on the first 6.7 km of their alignment. 
 
·
Alternative 1 has a total length of 14.1 km and rejoins the M 1 to the northwest of Jalilli on the boundary 
of the Agstafa District.  
·
Alternative 2 is about 10.4 km long. After splitting from the common corridor with Alternative 1, 
Alternative 2 turns to the western direction, then runs to the south-west between Jalilli and Duz-Jirdahan 
and connects to the M1 in the south-east of Jalilli. After splitting from the common corridor, Alternative 
2
continues about 3.7 km in the western direction, then runs to the south-west, and connects to the M1. 
 
A
3
r
d
Alternative was studied, but was eliminated from further consideration in the early stages of the study 
because the required design parameters for a Category 1 road could not be met. In addition, the number of 
settlements constructed close to the area of this alternative, would cause a problem of population 
resettlement.  
 
The potential 
direct physical impact
 that any of the 2 alternatives may entail, is expected to mainly take place 
inside the boundaries of the future road reserve.   
Regarding the 
human environment,
 socio-economic implications of the road construction in the alternative 
study corridors may be severe due to the acquisition and overbuilt of large areas of private agricultural land 
that presently generate reliable income for many families of Tovuz and surrounding villages. Taking into 
consideration the additional 3,7 km length of the bypass Alternative 1 and appropriate number of population 
affected by land acquisition, Alternative 2 is a more preferred scenario. Both road Alternatives do not 
consider any resettlement of population.  
Based on favourable results of analysis of environmental and socio-economic impacts and lower cost, the 
shorter alternative 2 was selected as preferred alignment over the Alternative 1. 
 
4.2. Preliminary impacts of the new road    
 
In general, the new bypass is clearly preferred by the local people and also accepted by the people who will 
lose their agricultural land against the fare compensation based on the land’s current market price.  
 
Most of the properties lose a marginal part of their land. There are only a few properties that more than 30 % 
of their agricultural land. The project includes only one building that has to be demolished or moved away. 
The project does not include permanent housing resettlement. The impacts on displacement of the project are 
determined not to be significant. The chosen bypass alternative is in the question of land acquisition 
relatively good, because there is no dislocation of any family houses required.   
 
To avoid or minimize negative impacts due to land loss there is investigated possibilities for reallocation and 
reallocation of pieces of land between property owners.  
 
Page  6
6
At the public meetings (see chapter 7) there were concerns among the public about questions related to land 
acquisition. Following questions were raised: 
What will be the land acquisition process? 
Can we plant and use our harvest this year?` 
What is the classification of the land categories? 
I
want to definitely know whether my land will be acquired or not. 
Will our ideas on compensations be considered or will the Government establish their own rates? 
What is the basis for the determination of the price for our land? 
Will the price be a lump sum or a lifelong rent?  
 
One of the biggest complaints of the local people has been the heavy traffic causing accidents in the town. 
The safe movement of school children is a big concern. Road safety will improve, because the traffic, 
especially heavy traffic, will move from the old road to the new safe and fast road.    
 
Better, faster and safer road transportation is expected to improve also local economics, especially 
(agricultural) trade.  
 
The volume of trade is expected to grow and have a positive impact on the national economy. The permanent 
loss of agricultural land will have negative impact on agricultural production, but the impacts are not severe 
on the macro level. 
 
5. POLICY and LEGAL FRAMEWORK  
 
The WB Operational Policy/Bank Procedure on Involuntary Resettlement (World Bank OP/BP 4.12) 
requires that WB-assisted projects avoid or minimize involuntary land taking. If such cannot be avoided, 
displaced persons need to be meaningfully consulted, compensated for lost/damaged assets and assisted in 
restoring or improving their living standards and livelihood. The policy requires that if involuntary land 
taking and resettlement become necessary, a clear plan for compensating and assisting displaced persons be 
prepared by the borrower by appraisal for the Bank’s review.  Such a plan shall be substantially completed 
prior to the commencement of civil works. 
 
WB’s policy on public consultation and disclosure follows specific procedures: In accordance with OP/BP 
4.12 and Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information, the Borrower (i.e. the Government of Azerbaijan) will 
have to make the draft Land Acquisition Plan/Entitlement Matrix available in Azerbaijan at a public place 
accessible to project-affected groups and local NGOs. Moreover, the Borrower must officially submit the 
Land Acquisition Plan to the Bank. Once the Land Acquisition Plan have been locally disclosed and 
officially received by the Bank, the Bank will also make them available to the public.   
 
Most national requirements for social assessment and land acquisition are similar to the World Bank 
practice.  
One difference between the Azeri law and the Bank policy is that The Azeri law does not include mandatory 
income restoration support. On the other hand the Azeri law does not prohibit the use of income restoration. 
In this project there would be an excellent opportunity to “pilot” the idea, because of the project size.     
 
Table 3: Overview of the Existing National Regulatory Framework Related to Social Aspects in the Road 
Sector  
 
Azerbaijan Constitution               
(12 November 1995)  
Established the right of individuals to possess property and that such ‘property 
rights’ shall be protected by law; also, establishes
that no
-
one will be dispossessed 
Page  7
7
Article 29                 
of land without a ‘decision of court’, and that alienation of property for state needs 
shall only be allowed upon ‘fair reimbursement of its value’ 
Land Code of Azerbaijan 
Republic  (25 June 1999) 
Article 70 
 
1. All lands in use or in rent can be bought for state, municipality or for public 
needs 
3. Lands in use could be taken back by Local Executive Power and Municipalities 
via the legal enforcement on the basis of the court decision 
4. Privately owned land can be forced to be sold if there is planning to locate 
something for state, municipality or public needs 
8. People can be compensated with the same amount and same category of land in 
other place if the expropriated land is used for state, municipality of public needs 
Article 86  
 
1. Following categories of lands and their rights can be sold: private land, 
municipality lands, and lands under privatized state property. 
4. Foreigners and non-citizens are not allowed to buy land in the Republic of 
Azerbaijan  
Article 94 
 
2. There are two kinds of values for lands: nominal and market price 
 
Article 95 
 
1. The nominal price of lands is a value indicator reflecting quality and 
productivity 
2. The nominal price is used as a basic value in the following situations: when 
lands are taken back or expropriating from owners and when the land is sold by 
owner, and when the lands category is changing 
3. Nominal price is indexed by inflation rate and calculated by the District’s 
Executive Power (Local Executive Body) 
Article 96 
 
2. When the privately owned land is sold the value is calculated by agreement of 
correspondent sides on the market place (seller and buyer) 
3. When municipality land is sold, market prices must be higher than nominal 
price and determined by municipality administration 
6. When the land is sold for public needs, the price of this land will be determined 
by independent experts in this process. There must be an agreement by both sides.  
Article 103  
 
Disputes about land are solved by the District’s Executive Power, Municipalities 
and Court. 
Law on Land Market 
(7 May 1999) 
Establishes requirements for land transactions such as purchasing and selling of 
land, mortgages, transferring of rights to other users and lessees, and transfer of 
land through inheritance; makes recommendations on the nature of land market 
agreements and contracts; requires registration of all land rights and sets out 
documentation requirements; and outlines penalties for failure to comply with 
regulations. 
Resolution No.42 of “On 
some Normative and Legal 
Acts Relating to the Land 
Code of the Azerbaijan 
Republic” 
(15 March 2000) 
Expands on provisions of the Land Code with respect to the following areas: a) 
procedures for determining payments for agricultural and forestry production 
losses and damage resulting from restriction of use, or change in land use; b) 
procedures for resumption of private land for state or public needs; c) procedures 
for granting leases for grazing and hayfield use; and, d) procedures for allotting 
land for industrial, transportation, communication and other purposes. 
Cabinet of Ministers 
DecreeNo.158 on normative 
Costs of Land 
(23 July 1998) 
Sets out standard or normative values of land for each district in Azerbaijan. For 
Ganja-Gazakh region, which includes the Tovuz district, the normative price for 1 
ha of pasture land is specified as 4,318.600 Az. Man (equivalent of USD 920). 
Law on Land Leases 
(11 December 1998) 
Sets general rules governing leasing of land, procedures for changing lease 
conditions and establishes the requirement for registration of leases. 
Civil Code 
(1 September 2000) 
Defines types of legal interests in property (full ownership, lease, third party); 
requires proprietary rights and other rights for immovable property, as well as 
restrictions, formation, assignment or transfer of rights to be registered with the 
State. Use rights, servitude rights and mortgages must also be registered. Requires 
that land acquired for state or public needs shall be purchased by ‘an authorized 
body of the Azerbaijan Republic’ or municipality, by paying the market price in 
advance. Provides for people to have the right to register their ownership due to 
long, actual possession. 
Civil Procedures Code 
(1 September 2000) 
Article 360 
Sets out procedures and applicable timeframes for actions and appeals through the 
courts. Court decisions on compulsory acquisition and the basis of any land 
valuation must be appealed with the higher court within one month of such 
Page  8
8
decision 
Land Acquisition  
 
The Memorandum of Understanding on Land Acquisition between the 
International Development Association (IDA) and the Government of Azerbaijan, 
which is used in the Baku-Gazakh-Georgia Borders road construction, states 
which information is collected for compensation applications. This includes (a) 
the type of land: if sowing land, pasture, garden, dry-farming or irrigated land, (b) 
buildings, (c) plants already sown or to be sown during the next season and (d) 
perennial herbs, trees and their age and quantity. This information is collected by 
th
e
representatives of the District’s Executive Power and Azerbaijan State Land 
and Cartography Committee for compensation which is finally approved and 
accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers. 
Compensation Funds 
 
Although the state is responsible to compensate, there is no permanent and clear 
compensation system and the accepted compensations are paid from different state 
funds as the case be. For the Tovuz Bypass Project it is recommended that 
compensations are paid from the Government funds of the IDA loan project and 
monitored by the RTSD or a supervision consultant engaged in the project. 
Compensations must be paid immediately after the final road design has been 
finished and those eligible to compensation are known. Compensations must be 
completed before any of the construction work starts.  
Law of the Protection of 
Historical and Cultural 
Monuments 
Article 10: 
Protection of Monuments states that no historical and/or cultural monuments 
which are declared as such by the Azerbaijan Science Academy, are to be 
demolished. No such monuments were found in the corridors under study.   
(Source: IDA Credit 3517 
–
AZ, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR TOVUZ BYPASS, LAND ACQUISITION PLAN,  
Finnroad, Baku, May 2005)
 
6. IDENTIFICATION OF PROJECT AFFECTED PEOPLE (PAP) 
 
A
PAP is any person or persons, household, a firm or private institution, who would have their assets 
acquired, possessed or otherwise affected by the project. 
 
Categories of project affected people in the Project are: 
 
¨
Category 1:  
Property owners/farmers, who lose less than 30 % of their land 
¨
Category 2: Property owners /farmers, who lose 30 % or more of  their land  
¨
Category 3: Property owner, that lose a garage  
 
The number of property owners/farmers that lose land (categories 1 and 2) are exactly 399. Almost all of 
them are in category 1.  
 
The number of farmers in category 2 will be determined at the public consultation that will be held in 
September 2005.  
 
There is only one 3
rd
 category PAP. The object is a building, a garage, which has to be demolished or moved 
away.   
 
There is not known tenants, encroachers or squatters in the area required for the road. 
 
Page  9
9
7. CONSULTATION AND PARTICIPATION 
 
During the planning process there has been two public meetings held in Tovuz. The first meeting was held at 
the very early stages of the Project on December 25
th 
2004 and the second on February 25
th
 2005.   
 
To strengthen the public consultation process according to the Bank Policy there were following meetings 
held in spring 2005: 
¨
project results was presented to the public and local authorities in Tovuz on March 26 
¨
formal project presentation to RTSD on March 30 
¨
public consultation meeting was held in Baku on April 8    
 
The affected persons have been contacted by the 
Land Commission
 in the start of the land acquisition in July 
2005. The determination of the road reserve and the inventory of the assets in the road area have been 
presented to the property owners. If possible the property 
owner’s approval for the inventory should be 
gathered. 
 
In accordance with the Bank Policy the Draft Land Acquisition Plan has been presented to the public on 
April 8, 2006.        
 
To ensure that PAP’s, their representatives, local governments and local media in the affected areas 
understand the details of the land acquisition, a brochure of the final LAP will be prepared.  The brochure 
will include the main issues such as entitlement principles and time-schedule of the LAP.  A translation of 
the LAP will also be made available at the offices of the local government.  Local media such as local radio 
will be used to notify key issues of the LAP widely within the local community. 
 
8. THE LAND ACQUISITION MECHANISM
 
The procedure for land acquisition is as follows: 
 
1. Detailed 
design 
In detailed design the objective is to minimise the negative impacts on properties and affected people. 
 
2. 
Identification of the present situation.  
Identify structures, properties and owners in the road reserve. Make a list/table of the information for the 
further process. Collect information about property boundaries.     
 
3. 
Involvement of relevant authorities and property owners. 
Inform government and local authorities about the project and the land acquisition. The Local Executive 
Body and the Land Commission informs the property owners and others concerned by the land 
acquisition. 
 
4. Field 
inventory 
The road reserve and the property boundaries are going to be determined on project location. The 
inventory of the assets in the road reserve will be done by the detailed design consultant in cooperation 
with the Local Executive Body and the Land Commission. The local authorities and property owner’s 
approval of the inventory information will be obtained.   
 
5. 
Valuation of the land and other assets   
The detailed design consultant makes the first valuation in cooperation with the local authorities. The 
preliminary valuation is submitted to the Land Commission. Land Commission reviews the valuation 
Page  10
1
0
and submits it to the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers makes a decision on the valuation 
and compensation prices and sends it to the Land Commission for further action.
 
6. 
Agreement between authorities and property owners about compensation 
The Land Commission prepares the agreements form individually for each property according to the 
decision made by the Cabinet of Ministers. In case of no-agreement, see chapter 13. 
 
7. 
Compensation paid to affected persons before the start of construction.  
The compensation is paid by a government organisation. 
 
8. Notification 
Affected people are given adequate notice (minimum 3 months) to self-demolish and salvage materials 
from their structures (measured from date an agreed resettlement plan is achieved). In this project there 
is only one building, a garage, which has to be demolished.
 
9. Monitoring 
 
 
See chapter 12. 
 
9. COORDINATION OF CIVIL WORKS 
 
The construction is planned to start in the beginning of year 2006. The construction time is forecasted to take 
a
maximum of two years.   
 
According to Azeri law and Bank Policy all compensations are due to be paid before start of construction. 
 
It is necessary that there is information given locally responsibilities during project implementation. 
Information about persons responsible for construction, information or construction time damages outside 
the road reserve, in case that the property owners need to contact the responsible party.    
 
10. CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS WITH PARTNER 
INSTITUTES 
 
The parties and responsibilities in the land acquisition procedure for public roads are as follows:  
 
Cabinet of Ministers
 approves and accepts the information for compensation.  
 
Responsibility for implementation of duties concerning road keeping is formally allocated to the 
Ministry of 
Transport
 and passed down to the Road Transport Services Department (RTSD).  
Road Transport Services 
Department (RTSD)
 is responsible for control of the use of the road reserve and for the preparation of the 
inventories of properties within the road reserve.  
 
Land acquisition Department (LAD) of RTSD
 is responsible for project implementation
 
and for land 
acquisition monitoring. It is possible that PIU heads over the monitoring to a third party.  
 
Azerbaijan State Land and Cartography Committee (
Land Committee)
 is the governmental expert 
organisation for land acquisition issues in Azerbaijan. The cadastral information for the land acquisition was 
obtained from The Land and Cartography Committee by the consultant. 
 
Page  11
1
1
The Local Executive Body 
includes of the representatives from the local settlements. The Local Executive 
Body names their representatives for the Land Commission.
 
The Land Commission
 is a local commission organised for the land acquisition in the Tovuz bypass project. 
The Land Commission has representatives from the Local Executive Body and if necessary also from the 
Land Committee. The Land Commission is responsible for the inventory information, valuation of 
compensation and for negotiations with the property owners.  
 
For the Tovuz bypass project the 
Detailed Design Consultant
 has prepared following duties: 
¨
the cadastral information and the property owner information   
¨
the field inventory of the road reserve    
¨
the preliminary valuation of the losses   
 
11. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY, IMPLEMENTATION SKILLS 
AND TRAINING   
 
Capacity development and training will be required, so the RTSD can implement the land acquisition plan in 
accordance with he relevant national and WB standards. 
The nature and expected relatively short duration of the present Project are assessed as an ideal 
opportunity for capacity building and on-the-job training throughout construction. Taking into 
consideration the complexity and high sensitiveness of Land Acquisition procedures, the RTSD 
staff requires considerable administrative capacity at the local level, which is not available. Also 
deep knowledge in public participation would be an important asset in future projects.    
 
In order to avoid potential problems during the land acquisition implementation, additional staff and 
appropriate training is needed.  
 
In the early planning phases there is need to be aware of the preliminary impacts to properties and other 
assets. Negative impacts can be minimized if the RTSD project engineers have general knowledge in land 
acquisition, both process and impacts. Future training is proposed for RTSD project engineers in cadastral 
information and how to minimize impacts on properties.   
 
12. MONITORING  
 
Monitoring is the continuous process of assessment of project implementation in relation to tasks and 
schedule of the project.    
 
Monitoring verifies that all project activities have been completed and these activities are achieved.  
 
A
monitoring programme for the Tovuz bypass project will be established by LAD of RTSD, to ensure that 
the land acquisition is carried out within the procedures given by the national legislation and the Bank 
Policy. This programme will have the objective of:   
 
¨
monitoring
 people affected
 by the loss of land to ensure that they are treated fairly, to monitor 
compensation payment and that the people affected are not made worse-off by the project; 
 
¨
monitoring the 
restoration of livelihood
 of  
-
the 2
nd
 category PAP’s and  
Page  12
1
2
-
people dependent on those who loose almost all their land, that they are enabled a livelihood 
same or higher than before the project 
 
¨
monitoring
 impacts
 of construction on the people affected and there properties (for example 
construction damages to the properties/assets outside the road reserve) 
 
¨
monitoring
 
the
 
effectiveness and efficiency of the
 land acquisition process
 to identify problems 
in the process and ensure that urgent action is taken to resolve these problems to minimise the 
risk of delays to the project completion.   
 
¨
To avoid or minimize negative impacts on land loss there is a need to monitor and investigate 
possibilities for 
reallocation and reallocation of pieces of land
 between property owners. 
 
The monitoring starts before construction and carries on for a period of time after the construction has been 
finished.  The suggestion is that the monitoring would go on until one year after the end of construction. 
 
The size of land acquisition in
 the project does not justify the use of local NGO’s. Therefore the monitoring 
is suggested to be supervised by LAD of RTSD, assisted by a recruited local land acquisition 
monitor/consultant. It is important that post monitoring starts at latest three months after the compensations 
measures has been finalised.          
 
13. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES 
 
Possible disputes of land acquisition for the Tovuz bypass are solved by the District’s Executive Power, 
Municipality and Court.  
 
In the event that an agreement for land acquisition between authority/property owners cannot be reached, the 
acquiring authority can process its application for acquisition through the courts. The land owner also has an 
option for seeking recourse through the courts.  There is a possibility for exchange land to be given, that is 
equivalent to the land being acquired. Where a relevant local executive authority decides a land case, the 
decision shall come into force immediately and this decision will not be terminated by the lodgement of a 
complaint with the relevant court. This means that the first decision is in force until the relevant court 
decides otherwise. 
 
14. TRANSPARENCY OF PROCESS 
 
The process for land acquisition has been open and has given possibilities for the affected persons to collect 
information and also to participate in the process. There has been organised several local public meetings and 
announcements during the planning phases.   
 
However, there are following issues suggested to be improved: 
¨
transparency of the authorities responsibilities in the process 
¨
information to the public of there rights and responsibilities   
¨
information to the public about the time schedule for land acquisition and the project 
implementation 
¨
information to the public about the compensation principles and prices 
 
The information dissemination strategy will seek to address the possible problems in transparency of the 
process (see chapter 7: Consultation and participation). 
Page  13
1
3
15. COMPENSATION POLICY, BUDGET AND FUNDING 
 
15.1. Compensation policy 
 
All three PAP categories are entitled to full compensation for their loss. The farmers will either get full 
money compensation or alternative land, where possible.  
 
Land swap (alternative land) is possible according to Azerbaijan legislation. The local authorities do not 
have enough land reserve to be used as alternative land. On the other hand the quality of the alternative land 
is much lower than the land owned by people. Therefore money compensation is preferred.  
 
In case that more than 80 % of a farmers land is expropriated, the government will also buy the rest 20 % 
with full compensation.    
 
The 2
nd
 category PAP’s will have possibility for income restoration measures, which is supported by the 
government. Also income restoration measures such as privileged access to employment opportunities 
created under the project will be provided. The assessment for the need of training will be included in the 
monitoring programme. RTSD and local authorities will be responsible for possible income restoration 
measures. 
 
The project has one 3
rd
 category PAP.  The object is a building, a garage, which has to be demolished or 
moved away. There will be established full compensation to the garage owner for his loss of land, garage and 
income. His livelihood will be at least the same as before the road construction. 
 
Municipality owned land that is required for the road will be compensated. 
 
The land compensation price must be based on the market price, provided that such price is not less than the 
cadastral or normative price for the subject land (
Land Code
,
article 96.5).  Normative or cadastral rates for 
lands in each district are established by 
Cabinet of Ministers Resolution No. 158 On Establishment of New 
Normative Prices for Land in the Azerbaijan Republic (23 July, 1998)
.
RTSD hired a consultant who carried out the valuation of market price of properties in the project areas.  It 
was confirmed and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers that the unit price of 1ha of land is AZN 12,000.   
 
The Project will pay compensation for permanent acquisition of land based on negotiated rates. The 
government normative or cadastral rates will be the minimum.  
 
15.2. Budget and funding 
 
The Tovuz land acquisition budget (compensation, monitoring etc.) will be determined later by the 
government authorities. 
 
Table 4: Land Acquisition Budget Estimate 
Page  14
1
4
Activity Budget 
Cost 
(US$) 
Remarks 
1.  Compensation of any Affected Properties   
 
(loss of land and other assets)   
 
655 000  
 
This is a rough estimate, that 
will be determined later 
2. Compensation of Affected Properties outside the 
Road Reserve (for example construction damages to 
the properties/assets outside the road reserve)  
 
10 000 
 
This is a rough estimate, that 
will be determined later 
3.  Managing and implementing costs for the LAP 
Process  
 
15 000  
 
LAD of RTSD etc. 
4.  Monitoring  costs   
 
15 000 
 
LAD of RTSD etc.   
Total Cost Estimate 
 
695 000  
 
The payment will be monitored by LAD of RTSD or a supervision consultant engaged in the project.  
 
16. CONTINGENCIES AND FLEXIBILITY 
 
The project requires land acquisition from almost 400 private properties. The theoretical medium width of a 
property is approximately 25 meters. Considering this, there will be problems in the use of the areas, when 
the road cuts the areas in the separate parts. There is a risk that this situation in many cases will lead to no-
agreement on land acquisition. Therefore it should be created a mechanism for reallocation of pieces of land 
between property owners.     
 
The cadastral information (property borders, ownership etc.) is not accurate enough to assess the impacts on 
properties in the early phases of the project. This might lead to difficulties when negotiating about 
compensation with the property owners, when relevant information is not available.   
 
17. ACCEPTANCE AND COMMITMENT 
 
The Draft Land Acquisition Plan will be submitted to government and the WB. After comments the Draft 
LAP will be reviewed and completed. The LAP will be made available at a public place accessible for 
public, local authorities
 and NGO´s. 
 
The World Bank will make it available to the public through InfoShop (website). After the Bank has 
approved the final Land Acquisition Plan, the Bank and RTSD disclose it again in the same manner.  
 
Page  15
1
5
Table 5: Entitlement Matrix
 
The Entitlement Matrix has been developed based on the information collected at the field inventory and 
consultation with the local authorities. The matrix describes the method/volume of compensation/assistance 
that the affected population and counterpart officials agree as satisfactory to each other.  The Entitlement 
Matrix is presented below. 
 
Category of 
LAP 
Entitlements 
Compensation 
for loss of 
land 
Compensation 
for loss of 
structure 
Compensation 
for loss of 
assets 
Compensation 
for loss of 
income 
Moving 
allowance 
Other 
assistance 
1. Property 
owners that 
lose less 
than 30 % 
of their 
land 
 
1.Compensatio
n
at market 
price or 
2. Alternative 
land 
 
Compensation 
at market price 
 
2. Property 
owners that 
lose 30 % 
or more of 
their land 
 
1.Compensatio
n
at market 
price or 
2. Alternative 
land 
 
Compensation 
at market price 
 
Income 
restoration 
measures 
 
If the land 
expropriated is 
over 80 % of 
the farmers 
land, the rest 
20% will be 
bought by the 
government  
3. 
Property 
owner that 
lose the 
garage 
property 
 
Compensation 
at market price 
Compensation 
at market price 
(building cost) 
 
Compensation 
at market price 
 
Compensation 
of loss of 
income as a 
plum sum    
 
NB: structure refers to all types of buildings including community buildings; assets may tangible commodities of individual or 
common ownership including crops, trees and wells. 
 
wb233666 
C:\Documents and Settings\wb233666\My Documents\Tovuz bypass\Tovuz LAP\draft LAP tobesubmitted to 
COM\LAP_TOVUZ_week36_2005_SENT09092006.doc 
04/01/2007 14:33:00
Page  16
16
 
